1
Disappointed Disney Geek

These people giving it a 10/10 and calling it "The Best Disney Movie
Ever" have clearly never seen older Disney movies. If they had, they
would know that this movie pales in comparison to the majority of
Disney's animated movies. This whole movie has become so overrated that
it has become a sort of cult. It is quite surprising that such a dull
movie has managed to accomplish such a feat. That being said, before
you label me as someone who gave a low rating because they're "too old
for Disney", I'd like to say that I still enjoyed many of the recent
Disney films, like The Princess and The Frog, Tangled and
Wreck-It-Ralph. If you're a true Disney fan, you will find that this
movie cannot hold a candle to Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, The Little
Mermaid, Mulan, Cinderella, Pocahontas, Sleeping Beauty, or Snow White.
Similarly, the more recent movies, like The Princess and The Frog and
Tangled, were both much more enjoyable than Frozen.It saddens me to see Disney release such a low-quality movie. Don't get
me wrong; the animation was great, but nowhere near as breathtaking as
that of Tangled or Brave. Then, beneath the pretty animation, there is
absolutely no substance. The plot was very poorly thought out and even
contradictory at times. One of my biggest issues with the plot was that
a problem that had been building up since the beginning of the movie
was solved in less than two minutes and the audience went from feeling
overly anxious to relieved, but very confused. The resolution was so
weak and anti-climatic that I was left to wonder, if the problem was so
easily solved, why did the characters waste 15+ years trying to solve
it and, more importantly, why did I just waste 2 hours watching this?All of the songs- yes, this includes Let It Go- are sub-par; some are
even downright atrocious. Furthermore, the voice acting could
definitely have been better. Disney movies are typically made to appeal
to people of all ages, not exclusively to kids. However, this movie
broke the tradition. The jokes are very straightforward and clearly
directed at very young children (as if they would not be able to
understand any other type of humor). To give you a taste of the humor
in Frozen, one of the jokes made by Olaf the snowman (the comic relief
character) was, "I don't have a skullor bones". I really fail to see
the humor in such insipid "jokes". The sidekicks in the movie are very
annoying, especially the trolls and Olaf. Even the main characters,
like Anna, Kristoff, and Elsa, got on my nerves at times. Anna is too
awkward to be remotely relatable or realistic, Kristoff seems more like
a woman- stealer than anything else, and Elsa is very selfish at times.
Sven is probably my favorite character in the entire movie since he's
the only one who doesn't talk.Anyways, if you're looking for the depth and complexity that old Disney
movies possess, you should probably look elsewhere as you will be very
disappointed in this movie. However, if you're just looking for a
lifeless, glitzy animation to pass the time, then by all means, go
watch it. Growing up in the era of the Disney Renaissance, I belong to
the first group of people, so I rate this movie a 1/10. Sure, good
animation is nice but I didn't buy a movie ticket to just stare at
graphics. Lovable characters, memorable music, and an interesting plot
are what usually set Disney movies apart from others, and Frozen just
didn't satisfy any of those requirements. This movie was very
disappointing, to say the least.
