9
Whether you like it or not , this movie will take you places you don't want to go.

It's not a typical horror movie and that's also what makes it great.
There are some bad reviews here but what I always do is check out the
reviewers... I pick one that said the film was horrible and one that
said it was great. A quick check on their profile and looking at their
other reviews helps give me some perspective on their taste. For
example one of the bad reviewers on here enjoyed the movie Jessabelle.
While not an awful movie. It's also a movie for dumb people. Simple and
easy to understand and nothing really spectacular goes on. The acting
is mediocre and the script predictable. It's like a high school film.
She also gave Night at the Museum 10 stars. So you can tell she is
probably a teenager. I do that with just about every movie I watch on
Netflix. To help me not waste time. It's amazing because there are a
ton of great movies that get average ratings here, and a ton of average
movies that get really high ratings here. Like The Conjuring. That got
very high ratings and it just wasn't that great. It was good but not a
stand out. America has really really bad taste in film. Actually, in
just about every genre of art. We have zero culture , and the rest of
the world considers us it's blonde cousin for a reason. We are the
dumbest nation in the world. But if a movie gets really high reviews
here and those reviews are overwhelmingly good, you can bet it's a
pretty good movie. At the least well made and entertaining. This movie
stands out for a few reasons and here are the reasons it stood out for
me . Because it is totally original. And it's so candid about
parenthood.. Any parent can relate to this film, esp if they have kids
with "issues" or that have been through a lot in their small lives. It
captured perfectly the slightly troubled child. I too think that it
showed what I know I've experienced as a single mom with two kids ..
That need for space that you just don't get. The need for adult
interaction that you also don't get if you don't allow yourself it. So
there is a deep well here for character study and relationship
dynamics.. I mean deep as in horror movies. So, on top of that the
movie is freaky and strange and frightening . This is by far way more
of a mind f*** than any Rob Zombie movie for me. A lot of people Really
appreciate that kind of movie , like The Hills Have Eyes. They want the
most disturbing , cruel , disgusting things to watch. I'm not them . I
have to believe a movie for it to be put in the good box. Although
those movies are entertainment , they also are like a prank in a way .
Like all the directors got together for a game of Spin the Bottle and
the ones that made like the Texas Chainsaw films asked for Dare. This
movie isn't going to appeal to kids. , isn't going to appeal to the
Hills Have Eyes fan club, the people that don't like to expend any
energy on thinking , or just in general have short and shallow
attention spans that they really a can't focus on anything that isn't
doing something horrible is happening.
