8
"This is the land of wolves now".

Sicario ('Hitman' in Mexican) is well worth your viewing time. The
ever- reliable Emily Blunt excels here as FBI agent and hostage
specialist Kate Macer. After a gruesome discovery in Phoenix, Kate
becomes an idealistic fish-out-of-water in a complex CIA mission, run
by Matt Graver (Josh Brolin) against a notorious Mexican drug cartel.
Key to the mission is Columbian-born Alejandro (Benicio del Toro): a
man with a tragic past that directly guides his future. To tell more
would spoil what is a dense and complex storyline that evolves in a
most satisfactory manner.The acting is superb, with Blunt giving a career-best performance
(sadly overlooked by the major awards), Josh Brolin being convincing as
the war-weathered CIA man and Benicio del Toro delivering his best
stone cold killer in gripping style. His Best Supporting Actor Oscar
nomination is well deserved, albeit for the maintenance of a fairly
standard and chilling expression. Finally a name to watch for the
future is London-born Daniel Kaluuya as Macer's black FBI colleague
frustrated at being sidelined as a 'spare' by the task force. Equally praiseworthy is the epic cinematography of Roger Deakin
("Skyfall", "No Country for Old Men") which is also Oscar nominated.
Remarkable landscapes of the Mexican border are supported by
breathtaking helicopter/drone shots of the CIA convoy of black vehicles
in one of the tenser moments in the film. Outstanding (for both
direction, editing and cinematography) is a scene set in and around a
tunnel that is the best satellite/night vision scene since the
'electronic battlefield' in "Patriot Games" in 1992.The Oscar-nominated music by Jóhann Jóhannsson (so good with "The
Theory of Everything") is of the atonal electronic variety, undoubtedly
effective in conveying the film's mood but difficult to compare against
the more obvious Oscar nominations from the likes of Ennio Morricone
and John Williams.Directed by Denis Villeneuve (who specialises in single named features)
this is a tense, intelligent and thought-providing film that does
nothing for Mexico's tourist industry but a lot for Trump's
presidential campaign!Often brutal, this is not an easy film to watch. But it is a highly
intelligent watch, requiring your full attention throughout, and is
deserving of a place among the best films of 2015. Recommended.(Please visit bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical version of this
review. Thanks).
