8
This goes down a treat.

Last year it was ethnicity that dominated the Oscars and this year it
could well be longevity. I recently predicted that, at the age of 91,
Harry Dean Stanton could be Oscar's oldest ever Best Actor and even now
there is every chance he will be posthumously nominated while Dame
Judi, a mere 82, should have no worries in being a sure-fire contender
for her performance as Queen Victoria in "Victoria & Abdul". It's a
part she has already played in "Mrs. Brown", (losing out to Helen Hunt
in "It's As Good as it Gets"), and to be fair, this is something of a
walk in the park for her.We are told the movie is 'mostly' based on actual events but I think we
have to take a lot of what we see with a pinch of salt. It's certainly
an entertaining picture, if a little twee and whimsical at times, but
there is also a little more heft to it than meets the eye. As written
by Lee Hall and directed by Stephen Frears this is no mere sentimental,
historical romp. It is, of course, the story of the Queen's friendship,
in the years before her death, with her Indian servant Abdul Karim,
(Ali Fazal, an actor new to me), which until recently was something
kept very much under wraps and which was very much opposed to by the
Prime Minister, her son the Prince of Wales and the entire royal
household and Hall makes this another post-Brexit movie, (I have a
feeling we are going to see a lot of post-Brexit movies in the next few
years).What we have here is a film about racism and about empire and it's
quite as relevant today as it was back in Victoria's time. Not that you
have to take it too seriously; there's a lot of low comedy on display
and Frears has assembled an outstanding cast of British character
actors. Eddie Izzard is an obnoxious future king, the late Tim
Piggot-Smith is quite wonderful as the toadying head of the household,
Michael Gambon is the befuddled Prime Minister and Paul Higgins
practically walks off with the picture as the Queen's concerned doctor;
concerned, not with her health, but with the number of Indians about
the place. As a piece of film-making there is, naturally, a large dose
of Masterpiece Theatre on display but that, in itself, isn't such a bad
thing. "Victoria & Abdul" goes down a treat.
