8
An inversion of the Ocean's films but just as much fun

A few years ago director Steven Soderbergh made no secret of his waning
passion for filmmaking. He announced his intention to retire from
feature films following the release of 2013's Behind the Candelabra and
cited his desire to pursue other creative interests. Well, it may have
taken four years (and a brief stint directing TV's The Knick) to
reignite his filmmaking passion, but Soderbergh proves his hand behind
the camera is as assured as ever in the rollicking heist caper Logan
Lucky.Aptly described by Soderbergh himself as an "anti-glam version of an
Ocean's movie", Logan Lucky is a return to the style of filmmaking that
made his Ocean's trilogy box office hits. The film moves at a neat
pace, features a strong ensemble cast and is packed with enough twist
and turns to keep things interesting throughout its two hour running
time. The story follows the Logan family, brothers Jimmy (Channing Tatum) and
Clyde (Adam Driver) and their sister Mellie Logan (Riley Keough), who
are known for their family history of bad-luck. After loosing his job
at a mine located underneath the Charlotte Motor Speedway, Jimmy plans
to pull of an elaborate heist to put the Logan's financial woes behind
them and break the family curse. With intricate knowledge of a series
of underground tubes that run from the Speedway to a central bank vault
filled with millions of dollars, Jimmy sees the perfect opening to rob
the vault during a NARSCAR race. To pull it off, he enlists the help of
his siblings along with bomb expert Joe Bang (a scene stealing Daniel
Craig) and his two brothers, Sam (Brian Gleeson) and Fish Bang (Jack
Quaid). The only problem: Joe's in prison. So on top of concocting a
plan to steal the cash, they'll need to figure out a way to break Joe
out of prison and get him back with no one the wiser. No pressure.It's a zany comedy about unremarkable characters punching well above
their weight but through sheer luck managing to pull things off. Half
the fun of the film is seeing things not happening to plan but somehow
working out in the end. To its credit, the film never treats itself too
seriously and invites you to laugh along with the character's mishaps
and the farcical parts of the story are frequently the funniest. One
gag involving a prison riot and a jab at Game of Thrones writer George
R.R. Martin's glacial writing pace is as screwy as it is funny.For the most part, the film moves along at a nice pace. Just like in
the Ocean's films, Soderbergh (who edits his own film) employs slick,
fast cut editing to keep the heist scenes interesting and involving. He
also manages to make good use of an impressive ensemble cast, with the
likes of Seth MacFarlane, Katie Holmes, Katherine Waterston and
Sebastian Stan all making minor but memorable appearances. And while
Adam Driver and Channing Tatum both give impressive performances, the
standout is an almost unrecognisable Daniel Craig playing blue-collar
criminal Joe Bang. An explosions expert sporting a heavy southern
accent and bright blonde hair, he's an anti-glam version of Bond if you
will. It's Craig's impeccable comedic timing that will make you wish
the Bond films would let him exercise his comedic chops a little bit
more.It's only in the last act that the film starts to feel a little played
out. The introduction of Hillary Swank as a Special Agent in the last
20 minutes of the film feels a little rushed and ultimately doesn't
really go anywhere. Instead, the story continues through a number of
false endings, not entirely sure when to bring down the curtain. Overall, as the first feature to draw Soderbergh out of
semi-retirement, Logan Lucky is clearly something he wanted to make and
his passion comes through in the final product. Produced entirely on
his own and without studio interference, Logan Lucky inverts the
glamour and opulence of the Ocean's trilogy without loosing the series'
trademark quirks and high entertainment value. If Logan Lucky is
intended to act as sort of push-back of the Hollywood system and studio
meddling, then Soderbergh has succeeded at both proving a point and
making you laugh while doing it.
