6
Might Have Worked Better With An Unknown Lead

CAPTAIN PHILLIPS tells the story of the MV Maresk Alabama which was the
first US cargo ship ship to be hijacked in two hundred years . I
haven't bothered to research the history of American cargo ships being
hijacked but I'm making a very educated guess that last time it was
common place it was the British Royal Navy who were doing the hijacking
which led to the war of 1812 . Therefore it's ironic that an American
story is being told via a British director in this case Paul GreengrassGreengrass is a former producer of the ITV flagship current affairs
show WORLD IN ACTION . Afterwards he got lucky with the Bourne sequels
which had shaky cam and elliptical editing . It some ways CAPTAIN
PHILLIPS is an uneasy amalgamation of realist cinema and social comment
and the director wastes no time in showing the difference between
America and Somalia . Captain Richard Phillips and his wife get in to
their car and on the way to the docks discuss their son's career plans
. Cut to Somalia where Abduwali Muse is woken from his corrugated iron
shed by armed khat dealers . You can see instantly the point Greengrass
is making with life in America being boring but stable and life in
Somalia being dangerous and potentially short but I felt this point was
a little bit too obvious to be successful in any way As the film continues so does the cinema verite style . The Somalians
decide to hijack a cargo ship and like the Somalian plan as a film some
things work and some things don't . I always wondered how it possible
for a handful of pirates to hijack a cargo ship but this is easily
explained by bringing a set of ladders with them ! Simple as that and
the story is simply told which isn't necessarily a criticism as a game
of cat and mouse is played out . It's fairly tense even if you know the
outcome but one thing that constantly left me puzzled is why if you're
making a real life story filmed in a realist style we have a Hollywood
big hitter in Tom Hanks playing the eponymous captain . I never got the
impression I was watching a character undergoing trauma and Captain
Phillips was Tom Hanks being Tom Hanks which does drag the story down .
As it stands I can understand why the film picked up six Oscar
nominations which ended with the movie winning none of them
