4
Starts off okay, but quickly turns into a huge mess

"Nerve" is a 95-minute thriller from this year that is based on a novel
by Jeanne Ryan. Jessica Sharzer ("Speak", "American Horror Story")
adapted the work for the screen and the directors are Henry Joost and
Ariel Schuman, both known mostly for "Catfish" so far. The lead actress
is Emma Roberts and the only other cast members I knew in here were her
co-lead Dave Franco, brother of James, and Juliette Lewis playing the
main character's mother. Most of the cast, also because of the subject,
are pretty young aspiring actors that do not (yet?) have a big name. I
kinda liked Emily Meade (even if the friendship story between her and
the main character was one of the weakest parts of the film) and I can
see her having a good future in film. But lets look a bit at the now
and this movie. It is a take on Big Brother with a mix of "Hunger
Games" and an ounce of David Fincher's "The Game", so if you hear all
this you already know it is a mostly dark take on the age of
surveillance. Here we have a young woman who gets told by her best
friend that she just isn't taking enough risks to lead a fulfilling
life. So she agrees to join in a virtual reality game called "Nerve",
in which she gets watched constantly by thousands of people while she
has to fulfill quests. These quests quickly get her to join forces with
Franco's character.And from that moment on, the two are out there together and the
Watchers see them and hope for them to start a relationship. There is
some situational comedy in this film and this was mostly working well.
But sadly, in stark contrast to that, the real core of the film was not
working for the most part. I am referring to the dramatic thriller
sequences. They start off okay, but the script is quickly lost in a
whirlwind of desperate attempt to become more controversial, more
shocking and more relevant. The social commentary/criticism, which is
what the film really is all about, also with a reference to our world,
becomes complete garbage at some point and lacks realism entirely. One
major problem is Roberts' main character. In one scene, she is scared
to step on the motorcycle, int he next she accelerated the bike with
her driver blindfolded. A rush of adrenaline cannot explain that. Same
can be said about the ladder climbing scene. Lets not forget: This film
takes place over the course of one evening/night and I just refuse to
believe a character would change like that from one second to the next
on all these contradictory occasions.At some point, I felt the film really went for nothing than shock value
and it was very empty and irrelevant as a consequence. Police won't do
anything to stop the hosts of the game, even after a kid died earlier
and probably more did looking at the risky actions. But a teenage boy
and his pals can hack into the system and send messages that call
everybody an "accessory to murder". This was maybe the most
embarrassing moment, even if the idea about ending it at the very end
felt very false as a whole. And why would everybody, even the "bad"
guy, know about her plan, but Franco's character, the one closest to
her, would not know? There were just so many scenes that did not make
any sense at all in the second half of the film. Emma Roberts did not
impress me at all. sure this is a film that is much more about the
story and plot than about individual performances, but I was shocked
how irrelevant her character and performance felt throughout the entire
film. A more gifted actress certainly could have elevated the material
and her speech in front of the crowd at the very end was nothing
special either, more on the cringeworthy side. Franco, a fairly
mediocre actor himself, looked really strong next too her. And Juliette
Lewis? Oh well. I felt almost sorry for her about what they gave her in
terms of the script. The character added absolutely nothing at all, but
that's not Lewis' fault, just because of the way she was written. Apart
from that, I refuse to believe that the crowd would really want her to
die. First of all, humans aren't that cruel, second of all we were led
to believe they loved her immediately the moment she entered the game.
Make up your mind filmmakers and please don't give me the argument of
people's opinions changing fast.Okay, enough said. I am fairly disappointed here. This was definitely a
missed opportunity. The film showed some solid premise early, but it
quickly turned into a huge mess. I am actually glad it was relatively
short and did not get any closer to the two-hour mark. I have not read
the book this is based on, so no idea who is to blame and if the base
material is also really weak, but if not, then I can not image Ryan
being too happy with the way this turned out overall. I just hope they
don't get the idea at some point to make a sequel here. This original
was already underwhelming enough. I certainly do not recommend the
watch. The longer it went, the worse it became, also with the
ridiculously bad rushed-in happy ending for everybody. Stay away from
this film.
