10
Perfectly The Best Movie Of 2016.

Mowgli (Neel Sethi) is a man-cub raised by the Indian wolf Raksha
(Lupita Nyong'o) and her pack led by Akela (Giancarlo Esposito) ever
since he was brought to them as a baby by the black panther Bagheera
(Ben Kingsley). Bagheera trains Mowgli to learn the ways of the wolves
but Mowgli faces certain challenges and lags behind his wolf siblings,
and Bagheera berates him for using human tricks like tool building,
instead of learning the ways of the pack. One day, during the dry
season, all the animals in the jungle gather at the Peace Rock to drink
the water that remains as part of the Water Truce, a timeout called
during a drought that enables all animals to gather at a water hole
without fear of being eaten by larger, more predatory animals. The
peaceful gathering is disrupted when the fearsome Bengal tiger Shere
Khan (Idris Elba) makes his presence felt. He detects Mowgli's scent
amongst the crowd and threatens his life since man is not welcome in
the jungle. He holds the scars on his face as proof of man's cruel and
destructive nature and issues a warning that when the Water Truce ends
and the Peace Rock disappears, he will come for the boy. Thus, a debate
and argument arises amongst the members of the wolf pack as to whether
or not they should keep Mowgli. But before a general consensus is
reached, Mowgli voluntarily decides to leave the jungle for the sake
and safety of his pack. Bagheera volunteers to guide him to the human
civilization. However, en-route, Shere Khan ambushes them, injuring
Bagheera while Mowgli manages to escape with the help of a herd of
water buffaloes. Mowgli, now alone, stumbles upon a thick canopy where
he meets Kaa (Scarlett Johansson), an enormous Indian python who lures
him in with promises of safety and an assurance that she knows who and
what Mowgli truly is. Kaa's hypnosis shows Mowgli a vision of his
father being killed by Shere Khan and of himself as an abandoned infant
being found by Bagheera and also warns of the destructive power of
man's "red flower". Having successfully wrapped Mowgli in her coils,
Kaa attempts to devour Mowgli, but he is rescued by a sloth bear named
Baloo (Bill Murray). In exchange for saving Mowgli's life, Baloo tells
Mowgli to fetch him honey which is atop a cliff, to which Mowgli
unwillingly agrees. Together, they form a close bond and Mowgli decides
to stay with Baloo until the winter season arrives. Back in the jungle,
Shere Khan visits the wolf pack looking for the "man- cub." When Akela
states that Mowgli has left the pack, Shere Khan kills Akela by
throwing him off the cliff. He demands that the boy be handed over to
him. Confident that Mowgli will return again, Shere Khan takes over the
pack. When Bagheera returns to fetch Mowgli, he discovers that Mowgli
has decided to live with Baloo. Although tension is raised between the
three, they all agree to sleep on it until the following morning. At
night, Mowgli hears a cry for help and discovers that a baby Indian
elephant is trapped in a deep pit. Using his tricks, he fashions a rope
to rescue the baby elephant. This forms a bond between Mowgli and the
Indian elephants. Following Bagheera's instructions, Baloo unwillingly
confronts Mowgli and lies to him that he never considered him a friend,
hoping that Mowgli can change his mind about staying with him. But
Mowgli is suddenly abducted by a group of monkeys who take him to an
ancient ruined temple and present him to King Louie (Christopher
Walken), a Bornean orangutan-resembling Gigantopithecus who tries to
coerce Mowgli into giving up the secret to the elusive and deadly "red
flower". Baloo and Bagheera arrive just in time to distract the monkeys
and manage to hold them off while Mowgli flees into hiding. King Louie
chases Mowgli through the temple, causing it to crumble on top of him.
Before Mowgli leaves, King Louie informs him of Akela's demise. Furious
of the fact that Baloo and Bagheera kept him in the dark about Akela's
death, Mowgli decides to return to the jungle and confront Shere Khan
to avenge the death of his leader and end his tyranny. But first,
Mowgli ventures into the village where the humans live and for the
first time, he sees his own kind from afar and gazes at them in
amazement. He steals one of the burning torches and heads back to the
jungle but accidentally starts a fire. Baloo and Bagheera follow him in
close pursuit. When the news breaks out that a man with the "red
flower" is making his way into the jungle, all the animals gather at
the Peace Rock. Mowgli confronts Shere Khan, but sees how all the
animals of the jungle cower in fear at the sight of the fire he holds.
He throws away his torch into the water, allowing Shere Khan to attack
him. Bagheera, Baloo and the wolf pack manage to hold him off, thus
buying Mowgli enough time to set a trap in the burning jungle. He lures
Shere Khan into a dying tree with a fig branch and is able to coax him
into stepping on it, causing it to break. Shere Khan falls to his death
into the pit of fire below. The Indian elephants later help to
extinguish the fire by diverting the river. Raksha then becomes the new
Alpha and leads the wolf pack. Mowgli decides to do things his own way,
having at last found a true home in the jungle with the animals,
including his friends Baloo and Bagheera.
