8
Madea Versus Halloween

Any comedy about the madcap character of Mabel Simmons, a.k.a. Madea
(Tyler Perry in drag), is going to be a hoot and a holler. Of course,
you've got to love the loud-mouthed, browbeating, African-American
matriarch as well as the gag that she is portrayed by a six-foot-five
man who could just as easily impersonate Frankenstein's hulking
monster. Remember, the essence of comedy is incongruity. Think of those
characters that make you laugh: the clown with big ears, hands, and
feet; the willowy buffoon who holds his parachute-sized pants aloft to
keep from tripping in them, and the towering individual who rides
around in his sleek sports car with his head and shoulders thrust
through the sunroof. The humor is all about the differences in how we
look and dress. Sometimes, incongruity makes us laugh. At other times,
it is used without compassion to ridicule. Half of all the laughs that
Tyler Perry conjures up as Madea arise from the basis that a man has
decked himself out to resemble a dame. Perry isn't the first
African-American to pull off this act. Eddie Murphy and Martin Lawrence
beat him to the closet respectively, with "The Nutty Professor" and
"Big Mama's House." (I'm not counting Flip Wilson as Geraldine Jones
since Flip did it for television.) Nevertheless, neither Murphy nor
Lawrence forged a female character as outlandish and hysterical as
Madea. Moreover, neither actor created a franchise that could compete
with Tyler Perry's Madea movies. Ironically, Tyler Perry's cinematic
success with Madea hasn't cemented him his own place on the Hollywood
Walk of Fame. You know a comedy franchise is in great shape when a dude
in drag sold more tickets than Tom Cruise's "Jack Reacher" sequel "Jack
Reacher: Never Go Back" during the first weekend when "Boo! A Madea
Halloween" went head-to-head against Cruise. For the record, "Boo! A
Madea Halloween," is the eighth big-screen Madea comedy. "Meet the
Browns" isn't a full-fledged Madea movie because she only had a cameo
in that dysfunctional family fable. You know you're watching a
crowd-pleasing comedy when contagious laughter from the audience drowns
out the jokes that follow on the heels of previous jokes. Basically,
this constitutes my only beef about "Boo! A Madea Halloween." Brian (Tyler Perry) and his rebellious 17-year old daughter Tiffany
(television actress Diamond White) quarrel about her attending a
Halloween shindig at the nearby Upsilon Theta Fraternity House. Tiffany
has two 18-year old girlfriends who plan to fool the guys into letting
her onto the premises. Not surprisingly, Brian forbids Tiffany to be
there, and she turns her nose up at him in contempt. Indeed, the theme
of "Boo! A Madea Halloween" is the father and daughter generational gap
and the difficulty that a lack of discipline exerts on contemporary
families. Brian is divorced, and he has no luck getting his ex-wife to
intercede. Since Brian has an important meeting out of town, he rings
up Madea. Uncle Joe (Tyler Perry), Aunt Bam (Cassi Davis), and Hattie
(Patrice Lovely), accompany her to Brian's house. Predictably, Tiffany
doesn't intend to miss the frat party, and she convinces Madea and
company that a murderous clown haunt the house. Madea and Aunt Bam
careen away in her Cadillac, but the vehicle breaks down in the woods.
Madea and Bam freak out when ghouls surround them. Later, Madea wises
up about the stunt Tiffany played on them. She dreams up her own
devilish scheme, which involves faking the death of Tiffany's friend,
to scare the Hades out of Tiffany and the Upsilon Theta Fraternity.Inadvertently enough, comedian Chris Rock inspired Madea's latest
ghoulish escapade. According to the Internet Movie Database, Perry saw
Rock's 2014 comedy "Top Five," wherein Rock wandered into a cinema and
noticed people lining up to watch an imaginary Madea movie called "Boo"
that Rock generated for his own movie. Perry's comedy represents
Madea's first venture into an entirely different genre. Now, if you're
dreading the horror content of "Boo! A Madea Halloween," fear no more!
Most of the chills are strictly atmospheric. You may experience a jolt
or two when a clown materializes out of nowhere, and dozens of phantoms
in a creepy forest may prompt you to catch your breath. Overall,
nothing traumatic takes place in this largely funny, PG-13 rated, farce
that never wears out its welcome at 103 minutes. Tyler Perry returns
not only as Madea, but he also plays Uncle Joe Simmons and Brian. Joe's
health has taken a turn for the better since the crotchety old
curmudgeon isn't breathing with aid of an oxygen bottle, but he is
still every bit as obnoxiously funny. One of Joe's best jokes is
pitched after about two-thirds of the audience had filed out of the
theater. Yes, skits and bloopers proliferate during the end credits.
Joe's joke is: "So your doctor told you not to have sex. What did your
dentist say?" This is a rather vulgar joke for a "Madea" comedy as well
as lecherous old Joe. Nevertheless, you must understand that writer &
director Tyler Perry manages quite a tightrope balancing feat where he
takes both his religious beliefs and the questionable antics of certain
characters without going overboard with either. Joe utters some ghetto
profanity, including the politically incorrect N-word, in "Boo! A Madea
Halloween," and both Joe and Aunt Bam are shown smoking marijuana. The
depiction of their drug use, however, is so mild that it could be
mistaken for tobacco consumption. Compared with earlier "Madea" movies,
"Boo! A Madea Halloween" lacks the depth of "Diary of a Mad Black
Woman," "Madea Goes to Jail," "A Madea Christmas," and "I Can Do Bad
All by Myself." Meantime, "Boo! A Madea Halloween" fits it with the
lighter themed "Madea's Family Reunion," "Madea's Big Happy Family,"
and "Madea Witness Protection." If you're on Madea's team--to borrow
the "Twilight" phrase, "Boo! A Madea Halloween" will qualify definitely
as a treat despite some tricks.
