2
This would work as the best musical of 1933...oh wait it was, as "42nd Street".

Except that "42nd Street" has changed to Sunset Boulevard's Bourbon
Club, a fictional rock venue similar to the Viper Room and the Whiskey
a go-go. This could also be referred to as "the rip off movie" with its
theft of ideas from films dating from "42nd Street" to rock and roll
films of the 1960's (like "Don't Knock the Rock") where elderly squares
bellowed lines like "rock and roll has got to go!" while smashing a 45
rpm record, up to John Waters' camp classic "Cry Baby". Even
"Caddyshack" (the snobs vs. the slobs) is referenced in this adaption
of the Broadway hit that just leaves a huge uncomfortable taste in my
mouth.Having lived in Los Angeles during mid 1980's when this takes place, I
can confirm the existence of people walking around either with sweaters
neatly placed over their shoulders or those scary mullet hair styles
that today get sneers. However, there is a total feeling of falseness
in the story of the Oklahoma transplant (Julianne Hough) who meets
sweet bar back Diego Boneta on her first night in Los Angeles, aids him
in his ambition to become a rock star, and the misunderstanding that
arises when a creepy aging rock star (Tom Cruise who mumbles most of
his lines like a spaced-out Hamlet) seemingly makes a play for her.
Mayoral candidate Bryan Cranston longs to close up all the Sunset Strip
clubs he claims are destroying the morality of the city, and his
Stepford Wife like spouse Catherine Zeta Jones strives to keep her
secret past from him (as he does with his spanking fetish) while
breaking into light rock songs like "We're Not Gonna Take It Anymore!"
(in a Beverly Hills Church no less!).Then, there's the middle aged Alec Baldwin as the Bourbon Club owner
who breaks into "Can't Fight This Feeling" (by Air Supply) when he
discovers his true love in one of the film's oddest sequences that
tries to hard to be "cute" but is simply a temptation to hold your
nose. Mary J. Blidge has the most meaningless part of the film, but she
is the only one who really comes out of the film unscathed, performing
a duet of "Harden My Heart" with Hough and being a throwback to all
those big-hearted cynical dames that were a staple of films of the
1930's and 40's. The real detriment of this film is the presence of Cruise whose
character comes straight out of a bad Saturday morning cartoon. His
performance of "I Want to Know What Love Is" with Malin Åkerman (as a
Rolling Stone Magazine reporter) is nothing more than a gratuitous porn
sequence where fortunately the actors keep their clothes on. Russell
Brand as Baldwin's "sidekick" and Paul Giamatti as a sleazy agent are
other oddball characters that add to the "eew!" feeling of the film.
The selection of music is actually pretty good with lyrics the audience
can actually understand. The only thing this accomplished for me,
though, was missing certain hot spots of L.A. during the 80's like
Tower Records on Sunset Strip (one of the best record stores of all
times during its heyday) and the Hollywood sign which you were able to
walk up to before it was later gated off. True fans of the music are
better of listening to the original albums rather than the trite story
which unfolds here. Talk about "Crock of Rages".Update, December 9, 2014: I finally broke down to go see the musical on
Broadway, and while I certainly rank it higher than this, I now
understand the changes they made, particularly the change from a German
businessman and his effeminate son being behind the take-over of the
strip changed to a wealthy couple of nitwits. The nostalgia factor was
there for me still, and even reviews I've read of both the show and the
movie reflect my feelings of this as a cartoonish look back at a great
era in West Hollywood history. Still, I couldn't help but fight the
feeling that this era is one that was doomed to disappear even though
the famous rock clubs still exist. So the next time I happen to drive
down Sunset Boulevard and see that overly designed strip mall on the
corner of Sunset and Laurel Canyon, I'll think of this movie and sneer.
