4
I have never been so let down

I don't even know what to say. There was so much wasted potential here.
I will say that the cinematography, the location, and the children (The
Losers Club) hold up really well for this film. Yet, I'm still sitting
here after seeing this premiere and I'm still shaking my head. Here is the one thing for me, that ruined the movie. If you don't want
any spoilers I suggest you stop reading. Here goes..What is going on with all the CGI in this film? Computer animated
graphics have never scared me and this movie is littered with seemingly
terrible and unimpressive visual effects. I had a feeling this was
going to happen after watching the directors previous film "Mama"
Anytime something was seemingly scary, or anytime I thought "Hey, this
movie might redeem itself" it was almost instantaneously followed by
some cheap jump scare with a villain who was computer animated to look
scary. The human eye is easy to detect how fake CGI can be and folks,
let me tell you, this movie relies INCREDIBLY HEAVILY on computer
animated effects. No incredible monster movie effects from the 80s
here. The sad part about it is that the movie takes place in the 80s
(instead of the 50s like the book). What better way to write a
beautiful love letter to the time period than to get some natural,
realistic, and horrifying movie effects? The 70s had The Exorcist. Top
notch REAL effects. Do you remember The Thing from the 1980s? ThHOSE
PRACTICAL EFFECTS STILL HOLD UP TO THIS DAY. Its truly sad to see
computer programs taking the forefront to create scares. Anyway, I'm
rambling...For all of you fans of the book out there.. Spoiler alert again..You WILL be disappointed. It only uses the book as a small guideline
for the story they decided to craft here. There is no Ritual of Chud.
There is no Mummy, Werewolf, or drowned children in the Standpipe.
Everything is rushed. This film is just a complete mess and it pains me
to say so. If you haven't read the book, maybe you'll have a decent time if you
can handle CGI. I for one thought IT was extremely disappointing,
confusing, and ultimately boring and cliché. God, I wish this could
have gone a different way.If you are truly interested in seeing IT... Please...please.... Save
your money and go see something else. Or at the very least, wait to
rent it.
