8
"The Drop" is a character driven crime-drama with emphasis on drama.

Sometimes you don't need an epic story with characters that are larger
then life to create interest in the viewer. In fact by creating smaller
character driven plot, set on a massive "stage", might have a bigger
impact on the viewer, who often will try to identify with our
protagonist and in this way prolong his interest in the story of the
film. The interesting part starts, when the environment the story is
set in, creates the characters that has some dirt on them. They are not
black and white, good or bad characters. This world is testing our
moral values on daily basis. Sometimes small crime can create a ripple
effect that effects other in more profound way. And every bad thing
just like every kindness, can be a seed that with time will grow to
become a root of our moral inner balance. This is exactly what you feel
watching "The Drop", the second feature film by the director Michaël R.
Roskam. "This film takes an inside look at organized crime's use of local New
York City bars as money- laundering 'drops'. When lonely Brooklyn
bartender Bob Saginowski (Tom Hardy) uncovers a drop of a different
sort in the form of a battered pit bull puppy that he rescues from
certain death, he comes into contact with Nadia (Noomi Rapace), a
mysterious woman hiding a dark past."Roskam sets up the story quite straight forward with picking our
protagonist to be a Church going Pole who seems subdued and in someway
we feel he has something on his conscience, by going frequently to
Church but never participating in Holy Communion which for Catholics is
the most important moment of the Mass. To except Christ in to your
heart you need to absolve yourself from all the sins and for that you
need to go to confession. As the story develops we understand the Bob
played by Tom Hardy and his cousin Marv (last role of James Gandolfini)
own a bar that is used by Chechen mafia to become a drop box for dirty
money, from the whole crime related activities in their neighborhood.
The bar use to belong to Marv but as we find out later in the story,
Russian crime syndicate made him an offer he could not refuse. Another
sub plot of this multilayered crime-drama is a romantic triangle
between Bob, Nadia and her ex boyfriend small time criminal Eric Deeds
(Matthias Schoenaerts). Without giving away the key turning point of
the story lets just say that the past has a tendency to confront us
when we least expected and appearances might be deceiving. As I already
mentioned "The Drop" has a few stories intertwined with each other that
culminate in the end of the movie. The interesting part is that the
European director Michaël R. Roskam chose less dramatic more pragmatic
approach to tell this story which stylistically serves movie well. All
performances are strong starting with Tom Hardy who picked up a
characteristic walk for his character and displays loneliness and
sandiness in his eyes that is felt by the character played by Noomi
Rapace. A woman with a past that tries to stay away from the bad
influences all around her. Matthias Schoenaerts might be a highlight of
the film together with James Gandolfini. They both don't have so much
screen time and yet their characters are rich in duality through their
internal dialog that often is appealing to look at for the audience. I
enjoyed "The Drop" for what it is, a character driven crime-drama with
emphasis on drama in a large sense of this word.For more of my movie reviews go to:
www.facebook.com/JanuszMadejTechnique
