1
The story makes no sense.

How did this film (and I struggle to call it that) receive so many
stars?! THAT is the real mystery here! The story centres around 3 kids
who break into houses. Two are dating, and the third-wheel is a
quasi-moral-objector who follows along because he thinks he's in love
with the girl. The girl clearly strings him along, and her scumbag
boyfriend even mentions this to the beta about how he needs to keep
himself in the friendzone where his "b*tch" put him. Yes, that's how he
refers to his girlfriend. There's a really pathetically hamfisted
attempt at making us feel some sort of sympathy for this trailer trash
princess.. because she has a crummy home life? Because her mom is rude
and has a guy-friend staying with them and asks her to go buy a frozen
pizza? Are our hearts supposed to bleed? This somehow makes it okay
that this girl chooses to be in a relationship with a thug, while
consciously stringing along a seemingly nice guy (in comparison) ...
and it's okay that she chooses a life of breaking and entering instead
of getting a fast food job (I'm from Detroit. Fast food restaurants
still exist.) or something of the like? She looks down on her mom, but
all we can see is her mom being a typical piece of foul-mouthed trailer
trash sitting around on the couch. SHE is the one out there committing
crimes.Anyway, back to this nonsense story. They break into the house of a
blind army vet. A rich girl ran over and killed his daughter and he
settled with the family for a large sum of money. They decided (for
whatever reason) that he kept this large sum of money in his home. In
the middle of the hood. Okay. Clearly a logical assumption (based on
NOTHING. seriously. they just decided he kept the money in his house
and there's nothing that lead them to this belief. He's an amercian
citizen and a vet and he wouldn't use a bank? oh okay.) They break in
and scumbag boyfriend is the first to die. They all act like fumbling
fools and somehow this blind as hell old guy WHO HAS NO IDEA WHEN
THEY'RE STANDING INCHES AWAY FROM HIM can magically locate and
harm/kill them.So the friend-zoned beta ended up leaving, because he never wanted to
do any of this anyway. But after he heard the gunshot he went back to
save his trailer trash princess. Why? Who not immediately call the
police? Why sneak back into the house? He sneaks back in and trailer
trash princess is hiding in the closet. He tries to talk her into
calling the cops but she says no because she saw where this old blind
guy hid his fortune and she wants it all to herself.They end up in the basement where they find that this guy has been
keeping a hostage. The rich girl who ran over his daughter.
Friend-zoned beta once again tries to talk the girl into calling the
cops but she doesn't want to because she says "ya but then we'll have
to give back the money" She has no morals. Yet he listens to her. He
went back to save someone with no morals. I couldn't care less about
this film anymore.Old guy ends up killing the hostage, and beta. Trailer trash girl gets
away with the money. I fast-forwaded at this point. She's in the
airport ready to "start a new life" and sees on the news this guy is
being wheeled away in an ambulance reporting that he shot and killed 2
intruders and thank god he's okay. Trailer trash girl doesn't care,
naturally. Are we supposed to be happy for her? She's gonna go off and
live her life and not tell the truth about what happened? What about
rich girl's family? They never get to find out what happened to their
kid? IMPORTANT THINGS THAT DON'T MAKE SENSE how did this blind guy get
this rich girl into his home? how did he get her into the basement (it
wasn't a proper staircase!!!!!!!!!!!) and get her tied up with all the
lighting set up juuuuuuuuuuust right. How did a blind guy set up such a
great little hostage space? AND LET'S GO BACK TO, HOW THE HELL DID AN
OLD BLIND GUY GET THIS YOUNG GIRL INTO HIS HOME. HE'S IN THE MIDDLE OF
THE GHETTO, HE'S BLIND. HE CAN'T DRIVE. HOW WAS HE ABLE TO KIDNAP THE
RICH GIRL?????????? i can't get over that! hahaha it's so stupid! this
movie is stupid. the story is stupid. the characters aren't likable. i
don't know, i want my time back.
