7
Good Baby Sitter

I saw "Captain Underpants:The First Epic Movie", starring the voices of
Kevin Hart-The Ride Along movies, Meet Dave; Ed Helms-Vacation_2015,
Meet Dave; Nick Kroll-Vacation_2015, Get Him to the Greek and Thomas
Middleditch-The Bronze, Fun Size.This is an animated movie based on the books written by Dav Pilkey-the
first one was published in 1997 and no, I don't know exactly how many
books there are. FYI:In 1997, when the first book came out, Dav Pilkey
wanted Chris Farley to play Captain Underpants in a live action movie
or TV series but unfortunately, Chris passed away and plans were
dropped. For those unfamiliar with the books-like me-the premise is
about 2 kids, voiced by Kevin and Thomas, that are best friends. They
collaborate on their own comic book, with Kevin writing it and Thomas
doing the art. Their favorite subject is a super hero called Captain
Underpants, voiced by Ed. Ed also voices their principal at the school
that is tired of the mischievous pranks that the 2 boys are always
playing on him and other teachers, so he decides to separate them into
different classes, thus destroying their friendship. That is when the
boys, in a last ditch effort to stop the separation, whip out their
hypnotizing ring that puts Ed under their commands. They try several
things-act like a chicken, etc.-before settling on making Ed think that
he is their hero, Captain Underpants. The animation has a low budget
look to it but it works and it is funny. I must warn you though, there
is a lot of potty humor-the kids will probably laugh more than the
adults-but hey, there is nothing wrong with a little potty humor every
once in a while. In fact, Nick plays a teacher named Professor
Poopypants and there is a giant robot that is an actual walking,
stomping toilet. As the end credits begin, there is a scene, but there
is not one at the very end. The theme song is by Weird Al. It may not
be for everyone but if you are looking for a good babysitter to pass
some time for an hour or so, it should do the job. It's rated "PG" for
some rude humor and has a running time of 1 hour & 29 minutes. I would
probably buy it on DVD.
