8
Sometimes a Gimmick is All you Need

Like many of you, I gleamed at the trailer and poster with a heavy
amount of skepticism. "Yet another superhero-esque film" I thought,
this time brought to the screen with the increasingly hawkeyed
hand-held style. Is this really necessary? Well no, its not, but its a
lot of fun.The plot you can decipher from the trailer; three teenagers, Andrew,
Steve and Matt find a hole in the ground and uncover something that
gives them the power to move things with their minds. Then they act as
any normal teenager would if suddenly given superpowers, they goof off.
Things however get murky when Andrew (Dane DeHaan) begins lashing out
as his broken family life becomes too much for him to bare. Actors
Michael B. Jordan and Alex Russell complete the triptych as the local
high school's popular kid and Andrew's too-cool-for-school cousin.Capturing teenage angst on film has always seemed like a real struggle
for Hollywood. Common knowledge dictates that if you faced the camera
towards a group of well groomed twenty-somethings and relegated them to
a particular clique it'll all work out. Yet "Chronicle's" script
expands on that world without making it "the film". Steve is popular
because he is genuinely a sociable guy not because he's some feckless
ladder climber. On the flip-side of the coin, Andrew is withdrawn and
anti-social because his mother is ill and his father is an alcoholic
with a rage problem. These are very real issues that are glossed over
or ignored in average teen movies.But this isn't just a coming-of-age tale, its also a showcase for
emerging talents, director Josh Trank and screenwriter Max Landis.
While some of the camera tricks and dialogue may seem contrived at
times there's no denying their boundless creativity. Trank breathes new
life into the 'Blair Witch' gimmick taking "footage" from a wide array
of hand-held gadgetry to create a pretty convincing collage, or dare I
say chronicle.As the three climb into the hole to investigate one of them makes a
reference to Plato's allegory of the cave. Perhaps a quote from 'Alice
in Wonderland' would have been more apt. Like Alice all three are
young, surprisingly accepting of the situation and about to enter a
world where the natural laws of physics need not apply.http://theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/
