3
Great CGI, no relation to history whatsoever...

I've watched this movie with an open mind, intending not to look into
the historical facts and just enjoy a good CGI-packed film, that tells
the story of my country's most famous ancestor. But I couldn't, I just
could. They've went on to use actual names for people and places, that
some may think some things are actually true. Absolutely nothing from
this movie has to do with reality!!! So, the year is 1442, when the real Vlad the Impaler was 11 years old,
having been born in 1431. He's opposed to the sultan Mehmed II, the
future conqueror of Constatinople (present-day Istanbul), who, at the
time, was only 10 years old. Yet their characters are a bit older than
that, aren't day?Then the need to connect Vlad "Dracula" the Impaler to Transylvania.
They've made him prince. Uhmm... he wasn't the ruler of Transylvania,
he was the ruler of Wallachia, which is just south of Transylvania. He
merely stayed imprisoned in Transylvania for a good 12 years. He never
ruled Transylvania, as the movie depicts, but I guess they had to stay
with the legend, because who cares about history, right?!Then there's the Ottoman side. Mehmed II was a child at the time
described in the movie. He did try to come and personally punish the
rebellious Vlad, but that happened in 1462, so 20 years later. And he
did not die by Vlad's hand, although he was almost shot by an arrow of
the Wallachian prince during a night attack.One last thing. They've totally messed it up with the geography. I
mean, look for yourself for the Tihuta passage and Cozia monastery and
how you can get from Bran castle to the monastery using that passage.
Let's just say that between the buildings and the passage there are
some hundreds of kilometers.If you're not taking in consideration the historical facts (which
basically don't exist, apart from the resemblance of some names), the
movie is rather thin. The story doesn't hold and some parts are kind of
forced there so the action might have some coherence - which it lacks,
in parts. (I mean, seriously, an army marching miles and miles
blind-folded? OK, I'll buy, for the movies's sake, but gathering an
entire country's people to a single monastery...?!?! What were we? The
Vatican?! Or someone falling for hundreds of meters and not dying
instantly when they hit the ground...) I believe the movie would have been a lot better if they didn't use
actual places and figures and they would have kept the persona drafted
only from legends, with no historical ground. But it's Hollywood, so
who cares about history, right?!
