1
Impressively Bad

Throughout the movie, I kept thinking..."something please happen". All
of the pieces were there, good actors, good director, probably a
script. And there were so many avenues they could have taken with it.
Something with her ice skating friend, something with the mom,
something with the cousin that got arrested. But everything about this
movie was just so convenient that I wanted to puke. It starts out with the girl getting taken out of a vehicle and there's
no tire tracks, no footprints, nothing for the police to use to
corroborate the main character's story. So the main character becomes
the police's main suspect instead of looking for anyone else (right).
The kidnapper happens to have some work relation to the main detective
who just so happened to be kidnapped when she was a girl (but they
never really go into that). And the kidnapper is also able to hack into
specific computer cameras and setup cameras so he and the kidnap victim
can watch everyone (but how or why he does this isn't clear). And he
also decides on a whim to let his kidnap victim see her dad after 8
years (potentially screwing up his whole kid molesting operation). The
main character brings a truck load of trees to a job, when he's told to
hang onto them until the next day and stay at a motel overnight, but
the kidnapper just so happens to know where and when the main character
is going to be, then steals the trees and uses them like bread crumbs
to lead him to his kidnap victim (if it was me, I would have thought my
trees were just stolen, not this guy though). When she sees her dad,
the kidnap victim conveys in code to go check out her old ice skating
partner, just as he does, some random lady that shows up late in the
story just so happens to be conducting a bullshit interview with the
kid after 8 years on a cellphone to show the kidnapper later (but his
and her relationship aren't well defined either except for some hint
that she may have also been a kidnap victim earlier in the movie). Then
the main character just so happens to steal the phone that she was
recording on causing him to be chased (but could have just as easily
not done that and let the car drive back to the house where they were
keeping his daughter). The entire movie is like this. Crazy unnecessary
actions that just so happen to happen, who wrote this nonsense! Its
supposed to be deep but just ends up shallow!
