7
A yellow brick road worth following if you are able to avoid the huge potholes, which unfortunately is not always avoidable.

Unbalance prequel to the classic "The Wizard of Oz" has a lot to offer
thanks to the directorial grace of Sam Raimi and the game performances
of both Rachel Weisz and Michelle Williams. Unfortunately, their
efforts are almost torpedoed thanks to a bland script that needed a lot
more heart and the shocking miscasting of two of its major roles.First we should start with the look of the film, which is to my
surprised tame considering the gluttony of CGI in today's films. Sam
Raimi gives an old school feel to this film that manages to balance the
right tone of epic nostalgia and childlike intimacy with a hint of
Raimi's signature manic style of energy. It is a beautiful film to look
at and it is very inviting. The character's looks all represent their
personalities and the CGI animated effects for the imaginary characters
match the feel and look of the film. From the childlike wonder of China
Doll to the scary fanged flying baboon, Raimi manages to let them
connect on a visual level with their environment and not for once that
they over power the seamless look of the film. It is a beautiful,
visual affair and that is all thanks to the grace that Sam Raimi and
his ability to let the audiences feel their way around this beautiful
world. Unfortunately, while this movie is beautiful to look at, not
even Raimi's efforts are enough to cover over the fact that the movie's
script is as bland as a stale cracker and some of the performances are
just flat out bad. The story lacks punch and its barley passable as a
narrative. The character's motives are flimsy at best and a hint of
irony and complexity could have added a lot more to the film. It is
only through the efforts of the movie's best actors (Rachel Weisz and
Michele Williams) that give this film the fun, irony and complexity
that the script does not manage to even give itself. Unfortunately,
while Weisz and Williams are bring more than humanly possible to their
perspective roles, both James Franco and Mila Kunis look like they
rather not be there are all. The bad part is that both Franco and Kunis
are so miscast that it makes you question the mentality of the casting
agent who though that they were good choices for their roles.This leads me to the acting of this film, which is disjointed to say
the least. James Franco has done good work in past films but here he
just looks like he just does not care about his fellow actors or his
performance. He looks like someone who just wants to cash a check and
just cost by on what little he can do. He lacks charisma, charm and
presence in the role of Oscar Diggs and the bad part is that he is the
movie's lead character. Franco's attitude is well displayed on screen
and it hurts the film and you end up wondering on why he was even cast
in the first place. The same goes to Mila Kunis, who tries a bit harder
than Franco on her performance but ends up almost as bad. She just does
not have it in her to pull off the role of Theodora, who becomes the
Wicked Witch of the West and her performance on screen shows that she
is well aware of that. Therefore, she just gives up half way and leaves
both Weisz and Williams to fend for themselves. This is not a bad thing
when you think about it because both of them manage to hold the film
above water while the script just falls flat, Franco continues to not
care about anyone but himself and Kunis just does not bother.This leads me to the best parts of the movie, which are the
performances of Rachel Weisz and Michelle Williams, who both should get
overtime pay for keeping the film from self-destructing. Both actresses
are probably the best we have working today and in this film, it shows.
Weisz plays the oldest sister Evanora, who is the villain of the film
and let me tell you, she is so much fun that its criminal and her
performance is the best of the film. She gives the character of Evanora
such a sassy, fun presence that you do not need Kunis to transform into
the Wicked Witch of the west to get a charge, because Weisz does more
with less and gets the job done. Her performance keeps the movie afloat
and the viewer is more than happy to follow her, which is strange
because she is the villain of the film and has more charisma and charm
that the hero himself. The second best is Michelle Williams who plays
Gilda, the good witch and manages to keep her character from going way
too far with the sweetness and have a bit of an edge as well. Williams
brings humanity to her performance and the film and gives a perfect
foil to Weisz's evil Evanora. If Disney had any sense, a sequel or
prequel to this film would have just both Weisz and Williams and leave
out Franco and Kunis but I seriously doubt it.You should follow this yellow brick road just to see Sam Raimi give his
all to this beautiful world and see on how good actors Rachel Weisz and
Michelle Williams are in their roles but this road has potholes (Which
are the script and the performances of James Franco and Mila Kunis)
that cannot be avoided. Let's just hope you have good wheels to go
around them to get to the good this film has to offer.
