1
Worst Titanic Ever, WTF did I just watch??!!

- This review does contain spoilers -With all those spaceship analogies along the movie, it's impossible not
to relate those two romantic stereotypical movies! Except Titanic
didn't got the ending so wrong. Passengers begins as a fine movie, and
derails real quickly when Chris Pratt discovers how he can wake someone
up. Right then and there I couldn't understand why, for the love of
what's sacred, wouldn't he wake up someone who could actually help him
solve his issue. He had access to everyone files, I'm sure he could
figure something out. Oh no, of course the obvious choice is to chose a
female, stalk her, and wake her up without she being able to give him
consent. What a lame excuse to try and explain it by saying "a man
drowning will try to drag someone down with him. It's not pretty but
the man was drowning". Seriously, Morpheus? Give me a break!When they both got out of the ship to do their space bungee jump, that
scenario and that music seemed taken out from a very bad Disney movie.So, Morpheus dies (how convenient him being the third to wake up, a
person who knows exactly what to do, right?), they discover what's
wrong and go fix it. There's this ridiculous ball of fire they need to
take out or the whole spaceship will blow up, and for that, Pratt's
character has to go out, hold a door open and die burning while letting
the fire get out. Except he doesn't die, cause his suit and a small
door he takes as a shield are, apparently, enough to take the heat of a
meteorite that almost ended the whole spaceship. And for the romance,
right? He gets out of it with only a small hole in his suit and a
broken cord. Totally not feasible. Him flying through space, when his
cord breaks after fixing the whole thing reminded me of Gravity. The
scenes at bar reminded me of The Shining. And that was all that was
good with this movie, besides Pratt's and Lawrence's pretty faces.Then comes his resuscitation. I laughed through the whole scene. First
she gets out of the spaceship, floats towards him, and of course she
can't reach him cause her cord ends, then, of course, she reaches his
cord and pulls him. Then we watch a 138 pounds woman, carrying a 250
pounds man to the robotic infirmary and resuscitating him. I can't
describe the absurdity of this scene. He's getting oxygen, while he's
taking shots on his legs and neck, while he is getting an electric
current to the chest wall. Then he wakes up just fine. Not even a brain
damage (obviously).You think the absurdity is over, but no. 88 years later and he messed
up the specimens that were being carried in the ship, I mean, they were
obviously there to be used in the planet, or for people to learn stuff,
maybe? Whatever it was, it surely wasn't to make a little forest in the
ship? I mean, why? How did the mechanic became a biologist who could
create the right environment for that? That was just so awful my eyes
hurt, there were even birds flying inside, I could not believe I was
actually seeing that.It can be called sci-fi just as much as 10.000 BC can be called
historically accurate! Unfortunately that's not how people seem to be
taking it. This is gonna be a bad year for movies.
