1
I can't believe how bad this movie is

After watching Zero Dark Thirty I am simply amazed at the critical
reception it's received. In fact it's one of the most bizarre and
puzzling critical reactions I've seen since more than 60% of critics
liked Spiderman III on rottentomatoes To me this is simply not a good
film. In fact I wouldn't even be as kind to call it merely OK or
middling. I believe it's flat out bad.Zero Dark Thirty is the type of film that needs exceptional editing and
writing to work. This is because it's about a long drawn out process
mainly done by people sitting at desks. The film I imagined, if as good
as its reviews, would have cracking dialog, sharp plotting, quick
editing The problem with the film is that it's writing and editing is
quite poor. The dialogs in this film simply do not work and undermine
talented actors/actresses. The characters talked to each other at a TV
movie level of depth and linguistic expression. Many scenes, including
some like the infamous F bomb laden ones simply do not feel believable
as happening in a professional CIA setting. Many of the arguments feel
stagey and "we need you to act emotional here" outburst-y, as mentioned
like they'd do in a TV movie. I suspect the screenwriter wanted to make
the people feel "real" and down to earth, except it does just the
opposite. The dialog makes the characters feel contrived, as if trying
too hard to feel real.SPOILER - The other problem with the script is that while I do not know
the details of what really happened vs what Bigelow and co.
fictionalized, many parts of the manhunt felt ridiculous. eg. There is
a scene where a terrorist spills all his guts information wise just
because Chastain tricked him into thinking he told him all of that the
night before and had memory loss. Would he really just give up and say
everything like that? There's an entirely predictable explosion/death
scene prompted by a smiley CIA agent going "oh just let him into the
base, we don't want to spook him by scaring him" which was ridiculously
naive by a trained professional. The CIA are shown a video of a
detainee saying "X character is dead, I buried him, btw here's a
picture" and they all just believe it as fact without questioning
whether he'd be lieing. The entire plot hinges on catching a courier
who they seem to find because of a long lost picture, and some other
details I didn't really catch - either way the way they caught him was
very confusing and not drawn out well plotting wise. The manhunt did
not come off as very complex, intelligent or plotted well to me. It
felt like the characters just sat around for a decade and waited for
clues to fall in their lap!Then there's the editing. This is a long, sloppily put together film.
Many of the scenes feel unnecessary. There are long, forgetting scenes
of people talking. For a large portion of the film I could hardly stand
to watch the dull back and forths while keeping my eyes open.Many people have pointed out the lack of character development. This is
true but I also blame the dialog most of all. Chastain is a blank
terrorist catching robot and simply does not feel like a real person to
me. None of them do really. This makes it harder to cheer for them.
They come off as terrorist catching line delivery devices, not real
people with emotions.Zero Dark Thirty came off to me as a misfire on almost every level.
It's poorly written, edited, it fails to make its characters or plot
interesting. Zero Dark Thirty tries so hard to be "realistic" and
"naturalistic" that it forgets it's a film. But not only does it go in
that docu-drama wannabe direction but it does a very poor job of
feeling realistic due to its stagey characters and dialog and clearly
contrived plotting and set-ups. It neither has its cake or eats it.This is simply a colossal misfire after the near masterpiece that is
the Hurt Locker for Bigelow. I am truly shocked at how poor a film this
is on every level after the critical reception to it. One of the very
worst films I've seen all year
