7
For the whole family, entertaining

A prehistoric adventure full of beautiful animated landscapes and
constant laugh that makes it perfect for the whole family.The publicity of this movie makes you think that the main character is
Eep (Emma Stone), but actually her father Grug (Nicolas Cage), is also
a main character. The plot of the story go around this two, everything
one of them do affects the other to the point that at a time Grug is
more a protagonist than Eep. The fact that this is so makes a different
approach on certain themes, like that the message is more for adult
parents than for the young audience, which is odd on animated movies.Of course, the story is not complicated and either deep, but Dreamworks
is not known for making that kind of movies. It doesn't have anything
special either, except for the final approach to adults than to kids.
But it is fun, full of physic and verbal jokes, which keep the audience
laughing all the time. Regularly I wouldn't say that physical jokes
(like punching), are well used and effective, but in this case we are
talking about cavemen, brutal force is suppose to be the principal
characteristic. So in this movie all the "punch to laugh" is justified
and proper to the setting.The dynamic between the members of the family is very close to a
reality. None of us need to go out hunting to survive, but we often
fight with our relative. Imagine that you are in a trip with your whole
family. Well, all the talking, arguing and everything that drive you
crazy about the guy next to you is in this movie. So there are plenty
of elements that make this family of the Stone Age similar to modern
families. Like the fact that you can fight all you want with your mom,
dad, brother or grandma, but in the end you will protect them and give
everything for them.The world where this movie takes place is beautiful and unique. All the
things that you encounter aren't real, the animals, the plants,
everything has been invented by the creators with references of real
creatures. That puts you in the same spot that the Croods. As they will
discover new creatures and explore new worlds, the audience will know
the world too. So the audience can't muck of the fact that the Croods
don't know what kind of animals live on the earth, because they don't
know either what are the species living on that world.This is a good movie to go and enjoy with the whole family. Kids will
love the graphics, the colors, some of them the 3D, and the jokes.
Adults will laugh too with the jokes and will have a nice time with the
ones they love.
