7
An engaging spy film that tries to be politically correct

"Unlocked" offers a Byzantine plot filled with unexpected twists, a
talented cast and decent production values. Many of the plot devices
are familiar tropes, but some seem fresh, including a sequence
involving a motorcycle and an early reversal of fortune. The story is
engaging, but never quite edge-of-your-seat enthralling. At the end, it
seems a worthwhile experience, but devoid of anything really fresh. Spy films don't mix well with politically liberal ideals. The typical
spy film entails extrajudicial executions, capital punishment, enhanced
interrogation, kidnappings, violation of treaties, immigrants engaged
in spy cells, profiling and all manner of activities that outrage
liberals. This film seems to attempt to defer or pander to liberal
sensitivities, while pursuing a plot that requires a right-wing
mindset. The results often seem a bit awkward. Muslim immigrants have
an elaborate network of sleeper cells, but some of the Muslims are good
people who object to their religion of peace being subverted by
extremists. Most immigrants are hard-working, but need help acclimating
to local customs. Women are just as capable, or more so, as
intelligence officers. They are dedicated, less likely to betray their
country and capable of going head-to-head in unarmed combat against two
opponents who each outweigh them by half. The real villains aren't the
peace- loving Muslms, but the hard line extremists in our own
governments who manipulate our enemies for political gain. At several
points in the film, it feels as if the filmmakers are pausing the
action to present homework assignments from a community college course
in civics. The script is not entirely satisfying dramatically. In addition to
distracting political subtext, too many characters know too much about
future events. The protagonist doesn't seem to need to work very hard
to uncover things. There are a lot of coincidences. The protagonist
more often seems to be knocked about by events, rather than driving
them. There are too many remorseless murderers willing to employ
weapons of mass destruction for a price. At least three significant
characters may have died, but we're not entirely certain. Overall, it's an engaging movie that might have been better if it
invested less effort in trying to be politically correct.
