3
Serves no purpose other than showcasing a series of tiresome gunfights

In 1949 Los Angeles is a city ruled by the mob. At the top of the crime
syndicates is Mickey Cohen (Sean Penn), a ruthless mobster involved
with murder, women and drugs. To combat Cohen, the police department
look to construct a special squad of cops who will shut down his
operations. Bill Parker (Nick Nolte) pitches the idea to honest cop
John O'Mara (Josh Brolin), who is also a happily married war veteran.
His wife gives him the idea of picking men that have little ambition
and therefore less likely to be corrupted. One of the main men to join
his squad is Sgt. Jerry Wooters (Ryan Gosling), who has eyes for
Cohen's etiquette teacher Grace (Emma Stone). The other members of the
squad include Coleman (Anthony Mackie), Max (Robert Patrick), Conway
(Giovanni Ribisi) and Navidad (Michael Pena), each of whom has their
own specialties. The most depressing realisation about Gangster Squad is not simply that
it is the lowest form of pulp trash, but that it leaves in its wake the
question of "what if?" Director Ruben Fleischer (Zombieland, 30 Minutes
or Less) has assembled a cast that the most seasoned director would
salivate over, only to show complete ineptitude towards authenticity
and controlled performance registers. The only positive to be drawn
from the film is that it contains some momentarily appealing
photography. The rest of the film is a shambles. It's badly directed,
allowing for poor performances, glossy over-stylisation, and serves no
purpose other than showcasing a series of tiresome gunfights. How did Warners Bros, who produced some of the most important gangster
films ever made, let this happen? It's through no fault of the source
material. The film is based on a seven day L.A. Times series by
journalist Paul Lieberman, who in 2008 chronicled the real life
formation of the Gangster Squad. Historical facts notwithstanding, the
film is as it claims "inspired by a true story". It's the treatment of
the material that fails. Discussing the film's cop-turned-writer Will
Beall, Lieberman stated in an article for the Nieman Reports: "With
'The Gangster Squad,' he understood that the studio wanted to go big,
with flying bullets and fists." Evidentially, someone at Warner Bros.
felt this subgenre had to be modernised by removing the substance and
racking up the violence. The classic gangster films of the past were more psychological than
ostentatious. Filmmakers like Howard Hawks used them as public warnings
against the real life threat of gangsters and to pressure governments
to take stronger action against them. The films provided cautionary
tales about the way that ordinary people could be seduced the allure of
power and money, raising their social status but dispersing their
friends, family and moral values. Actors like James Cagney transformed
the gangster figure into tragic Shakespearean characters that were
physically and mentally corroded by the failure of the American Dream. The heavy emphasis on the violence and the action in Gangster Squad
lessens the opportunity for complex moral ambiguity. A character asks
John late if there is a difference between the criminals and the
gangster squad. It's hard to believe given the film's insistence of
what a monster Cohen is, along with Penn's disappointingly monotone
performance, which substitutes nuances for snarls and angry grimaces.
After an opening scene where he orders someone to be drawn and
quartered between two cars, there's little by way of sympathy or
psychology. Similarly, if Fleischer is interested in blurring the lines between the
criminals and the police, why does he frequently romanticise their
battles with adolescent techniques like slow-motion, freeze framing and
careless juxtaposition? In one sequence he contrasts a raid with the
Carmen Miranda song 'Chica Chica Boom Chic', as the camera crabs
sideways, scanning the crew as they beat up crims. Is there any reason
besides including a superficial pop reference? This is true of
Fleischer's overwrought visual style, one which desperately claws for
your attention, only to remain vacuous. There are pretty moments in the
film, like a sumptuous wide shot of L.A.'s neon glowing nightlife and
Emma Stone's first appearance in a red dress, but they're designed
solely to distract you from the film's emptiness and artificiality, as
these colour techniques are divorced from a theme. The performances in this mess range between embarrassing and vapid, and
in some cases, both. Brolin's character is a dull lead, the can-do
officer with the beautiful home and concerned wife. I found her
surprisingly more interesting but the exchanges between the pair gnaw
at terrible clichés: "The war is over. Stop fighting," she tells him.
When the rest of the cast is allowed to speak, and some of them aren't,
they're embarrassed by laughably ornate dialogue, such as: "This is a
war for the soul of Los Angeles!" and "The whole town is under water
and you're using a bucket when you should be grabbing a bathing suit".
Gosling is the only actor who seems aware of how silly the project is.
But his performance is compromised of poses and jokey lines, so chilled
that he could play Jerry in his sleep. Likewise, Emma Stone's reunion
with her Zombieland director leaves her with only two things to do:
smoke and look po-faced. The gangster squad itself is little more than
a collection of action figurines, defined by quirks than personality,
like the knife thrower, the fast shooter and the Hispanic guy. I liked this movie more when it was called The Untouchables (1987). A
tremendous cast and glamorous production design is wasted hosting
loosely connected action scenes, with little substance to support them.
Warner Bros. decided to delay the film six months following the Aurora
shooting. Or was it because they already knew how poor the film was?
Now after the events in Connecticut, how will they sell a film that's
only interested in gunfire?
