2
Hell No!

At the time I saw it, IMDb had this rated at 8.3!?!?? Damn few movies
get that high of a rating, so I was prepared to be entertained by a
well-crafted plot. What I got was a slow moving, meandering bank
robbery crime spree yarn, which turns totally senseless and absurd when
we finally find out what the overall "plan" was, and what the
motivation for doing it all was - $50K heisted, three innocent people
dead plus the planned (!) self-sacrifice of one of the bank-robbing
protagonists: It's all done for the two kids of our divorced loser
"hero," "so they don't have to be poor." REALLY??? What-a-bunch-of
CRAP. It's the obligatory evil bankers vs. the self-pitying mortgagor, who
can only think of using today's all to familiar problem solving
solution: violence. Plot holes and absurdities absolutely abound along
the way crafted with the hopes that viewers will be as simple minded as
the story being told.With the exception of the all too brief appearance of the delightfully
gruff T Bone Café waitress, who gave the best delivery of lines in the
movie, the "acting" was a wasteland (unless you're into watching the
camera pan Chris Pine posing). Poor Jeff Bridges, who has given us so
many memorable performances, was little more than a sad, mumbling
caricature of himself. On the plus side, the visual portrayal of West
Texas as starkly and hopelessly bleak was well done.P.S. FACT CHECK: There are many (most?) reviewers who have willingly
(eagerly?) bought into the the totally false central premise of the
plot that the bank was going to own/acquire the ranch upon foreclosure,
and was therefore the evil "Bad Guy," deserving of being robbed
repeatedly (and their guard murdered). WRONG! Foreclosures are governed by law which results in a advertised Public
Auction with the property going to the highest public bidder, with any
money received over the loan amount owed plus expenses going back to
the Mortgagor.Also, the evil "Bad Guy" bank officer whose portrayal was demonized in
the movie HAD to pay the delinquent property taxes on the property to
prevent it from being sold at public auction by the Tax Collector.
