9
A dark, twisted comedy about grief, tragedy and three billboards

Having recently won the People's Choice Awards at TIFF, Three
Billboards outside Ebbing, Missouri is very easy to see why it won.Three Billboards is a dark but also funny and heart-felt story about
one woman's quest to get justice for her daughter's rape and murder.
After Mildred Haynes buys three billboards with words written on them
accusing the town's well-liked sheriff of having not found her
daughter's killer, it sets a series of events that turns the citizens
and the cops against her.The thing I can say about Three Billboards without going into spoilers
is that it is wildly unpredictable. One moment you think things are
going one direction as expected then it takes hard left turn that only
adds to the dynamic between the characters. As the pressure within the
town builds and anger is pointed towards Mildred, we see many of these
characters evolve in order to deal with tragedy and grief and learn to
find peace. And the movie goes through a roller-coaster of emotions.
One moment you are laughing your butt off from the hilarious dialogue
then you feel like someone just punched you in the gut. With every
victory you think this story brings you feel like it was taken away
from because of the world's unfairness and injustice. In lesser hands
the mixture of dark and comedic tones would not work, but director and
writer Martin McDonagh knows how to balance them to perfection.The performances here just through the roof. Frances McDormand delivers
a performance that will for sure get her into the Lead Actress awards
race at the Oscars. As Mildred, McDormand just cuts loose with her
performance with every line of hate, cynicism and cursing towards
everyone she feels doesn't truly understand the internal pain she is
going through. But McDormand does now and then show a soft side to
Mildred. It shows that Mildred is just person like everyone who has her
own way of dealing with the tragedy of loosing her own child. And Sam
Rockwell also gives one of the best performances of his career as the
flawed and very misguided cop Dixon. The character of Dixon is
short-tempered, volatile, and not bright with some baggage of his own
that the locals accuse him of. But Sam Rockwell brings his charm and
sincerity to what could be a rather unlikable character. And in the
latter half, you see Dixon go through a tremendous arc of learning to
care about others rather then just being angry towards them. Other
great performances that should be called out are Woody Harrelson, Peter
Dinklage, John Hawk and Caleb Landry Jones.Three Billboards outside Ebbing, Missouri is easily one of the best
movies this year and is worth seeing once it comes out in wide
releases.
