2
very over-hyped. i left the theatre unimpressed.

lights out was a film I was looking forward to. described as being one
of the best and most well rounded horror films to come out in recent
years I was definitely intrigued. so I went to the theatre with high
expectations.so lights out is a film with a very cool concept that if done right
could end up being something very scary and chilling. but, instead we
get something much much less that that. this film from beginning to end
was so anticlimactic, boring and generic. I will try and keep this
review as spoiler free as possible..the beginning scene is extremely anticlimactic. the director does a
great job of building some solid tension and some genuine sense of
unease with this first sequence but the pay off was such a major let
down. a character is pulled laughably into the darkness. unfortunately
this is the only scene that built any tension at all. for the entire
duration of the rest of the movie there is no tension what so ever.
every "scare" is predictable and laughable. characters who know and
have known for a long time that you have to stay in the light to escape
this ghost foolishly hold their lights in front of them. pointing the
light away from them rather than holding the light above their heads.
so many scenes involved characters surrounded by darkness, holding a
light in front of them and backing into the darkness. so anticlimactic
and boring to watch. this ghost has the power to rip someone into the
darkness and do away with them immediately.. so why does it not do this
to these characters that it wants out of the picture. instead it
chooses to show up and grab their shoulders, or stand in the doorway or
something equally as ridiculous. for one half of the movie the ghost
instantly disappears when the light hits it. but in the third act
suddenly for no apparent reason at all the light burns her? there was
no explaining this is just suddenly happened. the characters have the
opportunity to delve into their past and really develop and maybe even
have an arc. instead we get generic characters with minimal motivation
and a very very vague and uninteresting back story. the exposition in
the film is also ridiculous. there is a scene where Rebecca walks in
and just meets this lady for the first time in her life and within
seconds she says something along the lines of "stepfather not my
father. my father abandoned me." who says that? who says that within
seconds of meeting someone? it's like the director has such difficulty
introducing us to these characters and their back stories that he
writes them with out any thought or any heart. I will not reveal much
about the story but I will just say it is the most generic story-line
possible. the potential was there to write an interesting mystery but
instead the ball was dropped. we get a generic, mom met a girl. the
girl died because of some unjust cause and now the girl is back in
ghost form. nothing interesting and you see it coming from a mile away.
the acting is awful. I couldn't take anybody In the movie seriously.
the interactions between characters all seem so forced and unnatural.there really isn't anything about the movie that was redeemable. I went
into it hoping i'd like it. but no. the only thing I could give it as a
positive would be the fact that it's well made. but the budget was
obviously the reason for that. if somebody gave me millions of dollars
to make a movie i'm sure it would look and sound just as good.it had a pretty good concept but unfortunately the ball was dropped.
nothing interesting or even slightly different was done and the film
ended up being a stale and boring one.2/10
