4
Lukewarm Coldwar Drama by Spielberg with many  painful grimaces by Hanks

BRIDGE of SPIES, Spielberg // Starring Tom Hanks in Lukewarm Coldwar
drama.Summary: Uninspired Spielberg Mountain from Molehill with pitiful Hanks
in Pain throughout. Viewed at Colisée cinema, Marrakesh, Friday Dec. 4,
2015. By Alex Deleon. With so many intriguing Cold War subjects up for
grabs one wonders what made Steven Spielberg choose this relatively
minor Cold War incident as the subject matter of his latest directorial
effort. The background: In the summer of 1960 an American high altitude spy
plane was shot down over the Soviet Union and pilot Gary Powers who
bailed out and survived was interned by the Russians. At about the same
time a big time Russian spy with US citizenship was arrested and put on
trail for treason in the USA. Idealistic New York attorney James
Donovan (Hanks) defends him in court and is then recruited by the CIA
to facilitate an exchange of this spy for captured U2 spy plane pilot
Powers in Berlin. The exchange took place in divided Berlin on Feb. 20,
1962 at the height of the Kennedy administration six months prior to
the Cuban Missiles crisis. The foreground: The result: a big disappointment with a heavy handed
script by the Coen Brothers and some very bad acting in a long tedious
dragged out attempt to elevate this subject to the level of Greek
tragedy with Tom Hanks pulling slightly different variations of a
pained face in every scene he's in, which is most of the picture. Greek
tragedy this is not, although we are compelled to feel a little sorry
for Hanks when his steadfast defense of the American Constitution is
met with hate, derision, and even death threats from his fellow
Americans, and then he has to hide his dangerous spy exchange trip from
his own family when he volunteers to go to Berlin on a thankless top
secret mission to ease cold war tensions and save an American college
student stranded in East Berlin into the bargain. En somme:to sum up --From The combination Spielberg/Hanks and the setting in Berlin, a city
I know so well, I expected much more. This turned out to be a routine,
almost soppy Hanks performance and a very routine uninspired turn by
Spielberg at the helm. First of all I remember the era of the film very
well and it did not seem to me at the time to be nearly the momentous
event it is built up to be in this film. If lawyer Donavan (Hanks) was
in the news for a while it certainly wasn't a very big while, and the
spy exchange at the bridge was merely seen as a minor event in much
more momentous cold war Events of the time such as the failed Bay of
Pigs invasion of Cuba in 1962 and The Cuban missile crisis in October
1962. I remember thinking at the time that it was nice for our side to
admit for once that We also Spy and thought that might be the ball
Spielberg would run with. But the mawky family drama we are given, and
the overall talkiness with little backup action, plus the building up
of the the exchange on the Berlin bridge in freezing winter weather to
an event of Superbowl proportions simply does not have the drama we are
supposed to think it had. Overall, a dud that fails to go off in a
stagy unrecognizable Berlin. Recommended only for die-hard Tom Hankniks
who sympathize with Mr. next-door America, no matter what he does. As
for the Cold War political background -- Google tells it much better.
(Google, Gary Powers, U2 incident) Alex, Marrakesh.:
