9
Dark Yet Visually Exhilarating. Beautifully Brutal and Yet Still Visceral

Even at the beginning, there's no hint MAD MAX: FURY ROAD is going to a
stop. Right at the very start, the engines are already rewing,
gathering furious fires of vengeance and redemption, and before the
audience could snap out of the sheer moments of brutal grittiness and
exhilarating high-octane drama, they are surely already held hostage
within the confines of a post-apocalyptic world, where everything is
horrendously scarce. Not that it's a bad thing, no it's not. I tell
you, this is like being hurled into the space in a roller-coaster ride.
It's dangerous, but it's also thrilling. Witnessing this dystopic world
and all its hellish drama unfold might make you grope for seatbelt
under your seat.The film shares Max Rockatansky's (Tom Hardy) adventures. Max is an ex
highway patrolman. He's been haunted by the past, by family he never
saved. He meets the Imperator Furiosa (Charlize Theron) who is being
pursued by the dictatorial Wasteland leader "Joe". Furiosa reaches for
Max for help in keeping the 'Five Wives'—women she brought with
her—into safety, as Joe's deranged breed of warriors called The War
Boys, that are barely humans, are raging across the desert to capture
them. This pursuit throws the unlikely partners into the whalloping
dangers of bloody escape, suddenly sending them into a game of
survival.After a rip-roaring opening chase sequence, Max is held captive in the
Citadel, the city where the ruthlessly totalitarian leader "Joe" is
ruling over. The grotesquely brutal lord maintains tight grip of every
valuable resouces across the land. This brings the entire populace
crippling under his control. As for Max, he becomes merely a blood bag
for Nux (Nick Hoult) one of Joe's War Boys, who is a fatal devout to
the cause of their fascist leader, who has promised them the glory of
getting into Valhalla, the promised land.Everything in this cinematic behemoth screams grandeur, even the
feverish chase, even the dark erubescents spurred from the ruthless
violence. Miller has molded a world where darkness is an escape from
the stream of clichés and retreads, surging into the cinemas, today.
It's a visual feast, but surprisingly, with sense. It's explosive in
every unimaginable ways, but it's not devoid of a human story, which in
this case, is propelled by stellar performances from incredible actors
on the movie's payroll. Tom Hardy is utterly capable as the main hero,
but the emotional spine of the narrative mostly runs on Theron's
character. At some point, there would be a sense that Max isn't the
only one playing under the spotlight, as it gets evident Furiosa is
equally as massive as his role is. Hardy here is singularly stunning,
playing his role with utmost credibility as he is required. His mission
transcends past his emotional torments and he's never pulled himself
free from the ghosts if his past. Same can be said with Furiosa, who is
not only running from Joe because she wants to get herself free from
his cut throat grip, but also to bring every woman into safety, back to
freedom where they belong.Much of the movie is spent with furious speed chases that goes from end
to end of Joe's subjugated land, while also taking surprising twists
and turns along the way. It's like it doesn't know how to stop, and if
it does, that's surely only to allow us breathe and catch up with the
next electrifying action setpiece. There's an enigmatic style Miller
has employed to provide distinctions in his fantasy world, and it keeps
the momentum in tack, if not ever progressing. The tone of the movie,
all those vividly dark colors, that magically shifts from something to
another, imparts a drowning experience, only it's enjoying and looks
festive to the eyes. This makes every eye-squashing spectacles take
mammoth forms of visual extravaganza, turning all those burning
combustions, metal blasts, and endless pursuits, from mere technical
marvels into a hair-raising escapade.Amid these sanity-grabbing action sequences, though, is an emotional
streak that keeps Max and Furiousa's humanity alive. This prompts them
to survival, into carrying out their similar humane causes, clinging
tightly to their only mission even if they get hurled into the barbaric
hostilities of their dystopian society. This turns the movie into
something visceral, cathartic in some ways that probably only a small
fraction of the audience could understand. It will not be enough to
merit this achievement with merely a splurge of superlatives. This
needs to be experienced, felt, and forever cherished. MAD MAX: FURY
ROAD, ignites eternal fire, and it will keep burning through the
stretches of cinematic history.
