1
takes a lot of time to get nowhere....

When I say I don't get it, I don't mean to imply that I didn't
understand the movie. What I don't get is why we are supposed to care
about such unsympathetic, flat characters. This film like a reservation
queue where you stand for hours only to find that you can only get an
RAC. If you think you have a clue what's it about then send a note to
director. I am sure he is looking for you. A definite must not watch
for all; it is boring, overdone, and pretentious, and tween angst does
not make up for a lack of substance. I did not care what happened to
either Shailene Woody or Theo James; neither one gave me any reason to
care. I did like the character played by Maggie Q, and I did care what
happened to her character, but this was barely touched on in the movie,
though I understand it is more important in the book.This film followed the story of several uninteresting characters who
didn't do very much in an exceptionally long amount of time. It was
supposed to "revolve" around the relationships of the various
characters. It did revolve around the characters but the characters
were of no interesting sort. This film had no particular "flair" about
it either. It was a real disappointment. There is no better way to put
it. I have been know to be a harsh reviewer of things but this film
does not deserve such strong words. It simply was a let down. Long,
dull, and slow are some of the words that best describe Divergent.I am not American (though I'm not sure if being Sri Lankan is
considered by many others to be more American-like or more
European-like, or just different) and I am not female, and I don't see
what these qualities have to do with anything anyway; a bad movie is a
bad movie, and this was indeed a bad movie. I don't need massive
explosions or shoot-outs, nor do I need lots of CGI (though this movie
had plenty of that) in order to enjoy a movie. I like a good story. I
prefer talking to action. But none of this means anything if the
characters are not likable. Likewise, likable characters can make a bad
movie passable. In this case, Maggie Q's character keeps this movie
from being downright horrible, instead bringing it up into the low end
of mediocrity.
