9
Inheret vice in a marine insurance policy is anything that you can't avoid.

Inheret vice in a marine insurance policy is anything that you can't
avoid. Eggs break, chocolate melts, glass shatters. And Doc wondered
what that meant when it applied to ex-old ladies.Inherent vice introduces us to drug-fueled, psychedelic, ,
ever-changing,70's LA and it's many interesting and interconnected
characters. The movie has two main themes – the strange disappearance
of Mickey Z. Wolfmann, the local real estate big shot, and the
never-ending appearance and doings of a mysterious organization known
as the golden fang. Now, the first theme has a direct relation to our antagonist, stoner
detective Larry 'Doc' Sportello, who's ex-old lady Shasta, who was at
that point Mickey's old-lady, had also disappeared. From this point on
every new client that comes through Doc's door seems to be somehow
connected to the Wolfmann case. Moreover many leads start to be
associated with the golden fang, that nobody quite knows anything
about. On top of that, Lt. Bigbfoot Bjornssen and the LAPD appear to
have a strange stake in the case too.A nod to the dawn of the free spirited lifestyle of the 60's
California, Inherent Vice is truly about something one can't avoid. For
Doc it's Shasta Fay. With all of his stoner charm he acts as if in a
dream, which always ends with Shasta. For Bigfoot it's the death of his
partner and revenge. The renaissance detective has carefully navigated
Doc in his own interest, starting from staging the disappearance of
Mickey and ending with skillfully feeding Doc information about
Prussia. For the golden fang – it's something that –they- can't avoid –
dominance, with a subtle reference to the rise of big corporations in
the 70's. The golden fang is a heroin cartel that takes things full
cycle – they produce, transport (through their boat), distribute (Rudy
Blatnoyd(s) and Puck Beaverton(s)), and their biggest front is the
institution where such addicts (Coy Harlingten) get brainwashed
(Japonica) and institutionalized before they can go out on the streets
and score some more – the full cycle.The interesting part is to really think about what moves and motivates
Doc. Is it Shasta? Is Doc just genuinely a good person? He ends up
helping Coy and Hope in the end without keeping any money to himself,
neither does he seems to be really angry at Bigfoot. And this is the
beautiful mystery of Inherent Vice, it's none of these reasons, it's
just the scene, something Doc can't avoid. Like in a spider web the
series of events seem to suck Doc in before he even knows it. Most importantly Inherent Vice is about a gradual end of the
free-spirited-piece-and-love era that were the 60's. Hippies are
becoming increasingly more suspicious and the bureaucracy is slowly
taking hold. Law enforcement are constantly thirsty for blood. We are
allowed to witness this decline first-hand through a number of
hilarious and vivid characters, Doc's doped out eyes and Newsom's
cotton voice. With John Greenwood's remarkable, moody soundtrack, PTA beautifully
guides us through this inevitable change, which no one can reinforce,
much like Inherent Vice itself.
