8
Even through shortcomings and mixed ideas, the film's heart is always evident

Right before I saw David Robert Mitchell's "It Follows" at my local
theater, I was greeted with previews for forthcoming supernatural
horror films like "Before I Wake," "Insidious: Chapter 3," and the
remake of "Poltergeist," all of which could've probably taken clips
from one another and I wouldn't have even noticed. This is how basic
and thoroughly unimpressive horror has gotten over the last few years
and why we need to support films like this one. Is "It Follows" worthy
of such praise along the lines of "the best horror film of the decade,"
"one of the scariest films ever made," and so forth? Sadly, no. I
sometimes think critics either speak too soon or simply want to see
their name stamped before advertisements, claiming such outlandish
assertions that could not only be disingenuous to their actual
viewpoints but, in turn, set unrealistic expectations up for films that
leave the audiences disappointed.Make no mistake however, for "It Follows" is definitely worth seeing
and is bound to be one of the strongest horror films of the year. Even
if we consider its few shortcomings and some instances of serious
monotony, I'm more than happy to support this little festival darling
and commend it for what it does well. As I stated, just before you
settle into watch the film, you'll more than likely see previews for
horror films made by people and studios who have simply stopped trying
to make good, memorable films and copped out at settling for
mediocrity. Here's to a film that went left when most of the pack went
right.After an opening sequence that hooks you from how absurd it is, we
focus on Jay and Hugh (Maika Monroe and Jake Weary), a couple of
twentysomethings out on a movie date. In the theater, Hugh notices a
woman in a yellow dress, who apparently cannot be seen by Jay or anyone
else, and orders her out of the theater. When the two are alone in
their car, following sex, Hugh takes a chloroform rag to Jay, knocking
her unconscious and ties her to a wheelchair. It's here when Hugh
informs Jay that something has been following him for a long time but
only he can see it. It often appears to be a naked woman, but can take
the form of anyone, even the people you know and love, and passing it
on occurs by having sex with another person. The soul will follow
whomever is affected by its curse at walking pace, and if it catches up
to Jay, it will kill her, and proceed to go after Hugh."It Follows" is an early candidate for one of the most beautifully shot
films of the year, and more than likely to be the most beautiful
looking horror film of 2015. It has a delightful moodiness to its
cinematography, captured crisply by Mike Gioulakis, as it uses a dark
purple, gray, and teal color palette to look simultaneously uninviting
and immersing. Colors like blood red boom with the feel and visual
power that echoes Dario Argento, almost like an homage to "Suspiria" in
look and feel. The story moves with the kind of slowburn intensity
we've seen from horror directors John Carpenter and Wes Craven, or even
Ti West, if we're talking more contemporary.The real aesthetic treat here is how Disasterpeace's music combines
with the film's cinematography. The use of heavy, bass-rattling
synthesizers makes the film look and operate like a horror film of the
1980's to the point where looming tension becomes almost
overcompensating in the way it appears to be taking over the entire
film. The synths are loud and unsettling, and at times, can really
propel the film to a suspenseful climax. Other times, however, they are
obnoxious for the sake of being obnoxious and slightly disrupt the
tonality Mitchell sets by making the film operate on a low-key playing
field.While the plot appears confusing, "It Follows" is surprising in how
little there really is to it. Teenagers walk around, run from
ostensibly nothing, comfort one another through sex and aimless
conversations, and assure one another that it will all be okay amongst
discussing different ways to combat this force. It's almost like Larry
Clark made another horror film, as the tonal shifts feel like they're
almost part of a coming of age film in addition to a horror film. These
shifts aren't bad, however, as they function nicely to the film's more
suspenseful elements by slowing the action down but never coming to a
grinding halt. There's an unevenness, but it's not made as apparent as
one would presume.I find this is largely because of how well everyone works together
here. With Gioulakis evoking consuming cinematography, Disasterpeace
emphasizing a score that's alive and intense, Mitchell taking screen
writing and directorial risks for his genre (employing long, clean
shots that provide for a beautiful sense of location), "It Follows" is
sound on almost all fronts. The only negatives that arise from the film
are occasional structural burdens, or the fact that, towards the end of
the film, its idea seems to change to fit the situation and create
something unexpected.Nonetheless, "It Follows" is a film to see and support, for it's one of
those many opportunities we have as consumers that we keep blowing to
see quality entertainment. It's almost like voting in elections; vote
now and hopefully experience something that will satisfy you in the
future. Even if "It Follows" isn't the perfect gem some have claimed,
I'd rather see a pretty good independent horror film than a mediocre or
downright abysmal carbon-copy that's spit into 3,000+ theaters with
nothing but money in mind. There's heart in "It Follows" and that, at
all times, is evident.
