4
Contrived and self-conscious, but Daddario looks great

"The Layover" is a bigger mess than the lives of its two protagonists. On the positive side, Alexandra Daddario looks great and an extended
scene featuring her in an improvised bikini is arguably worth the price
of admission. On the other hand, Kate Upton, who was chosen for the cover of the
Sports Illustrated swimsuit edition less than a year ago, has either
put on quite a bit of weight or become pregnant. As her character is a
hard-drinking self-medicating sybarite, the appearance that she, as the
actress, might be pregnant creates some serious fourth-wall and makes
it difficult to sympathize with the character. Fetal alcohol syndrome
is no laughing matter. The actress's body makes scenes that should be
funny seem creepy. If she isn't pregnant, but has become Rubenesque, it
creates some plot issues. The male lead is a hunk whose character
presumably has a lot of options in choosing romantic partners. Beauty
is subjective and different guys like different body types. Some guys,
like John Ritter's Zach in "Skin Deep," are attracted to women with a
wide range of looks. But generally, the guys attracted to Alexandra
Daddario's Kate are not likely to find Kate Upton's Meg attractive.
Further muddling matters is competition from a third character who
doesn't seem the type that anybody attracted to Kate or Meg would find
attractive. Often in a movie, a minor character will give the protagonist(s) advice
about some aspect of life, the human condition, sacrifice, charity,
empathy, or whatever, which serves as a statement of the theme of the
movie. This scene occurs here in a bar with a female attorney
delivering what seems to be the theme, but then abruptly shifting
course, then laughing, leaving the characters and the audience confused
as to whether she was joking. The movie offers what might pass as a torrid bedroom scene, except that
the actress is nearly completely dressed, making the scene seem staged
and not very authentic. In another scene, a character exposes her
breast to everybody except the audience, which makes the scene seem
self-conscious and contrived. Another seduction scene occurs entirely
off-camera. Much of the movie seems as if the plot is driving the characters,
rather than the characters driving the plot. It's as if the
screenwriters decided to employ a potpourri of tropes without any
thought to whether the characters' behavior in the situation would be
consistent or how the situation would affect the characters, other than
leaving superficial scars. A road trip is a journey from point A to
point B, not a journey of self-discovery. A character who urgently
needs to leave doesn't check on another character who is delayed. The movie ends with a deus ex machina resolution that explains an
element of urgency for one character, but makes other actions seem
inconsistent. In the denouement, a freshly empowered character asserts
herself against an antagonist, but it's not clear how she became
empowered. The movie struggles with tone. It tries for brash and uninhibited but
seems contrived and self- conscious.
