3
Save your money this is a rental (if you must see it)

Before I unload my barrage of critique against this film I would like
to first state something. Whenever I watch a movie, and I have so many
issues with it, I will take a step back and ask myself for what it is,
is it at least a good action movie? The answer is no, it is not.Good things about the movie: High production quality and some good visuals / The intro sequence
before the helicopter**SPOILERS BELOW** -AVERT YOUR EYES!-Problems with the movie: 1) You kill a bad guy, bad guys organization wants to kill the wife
cause she's a loose end, Bond prevents the assassins, she finds out
Bond killed her husband, then... she sleeps with him immediately. What?
Sure she didn't love her husband but with all the stuff going down and
after a powerful organization sends 2 assassins they have time to take
a break and get busy? (possibly Assassins come in pairs and more arrive
only after 30 minutes enough time to shag) 2) WASTED TALENT.2a) Christoph Waltz. Such a great actor, with a horrible script. At the
beginning they make him out to be a bada$$ in the shadows requiring to
whisper things to underlings who then announce it to the rest of the
group at a meeting. But then he randomly talks on his own because he
can, and even has time to say hello to Mr. Bond in the crowd just as
Bond realizes he's been caught, and manages to escape bumbling security
guards. They attempted to make Waltz' character this mastermind who I
was never afraid of, and he wasn't that menacing. For the leader of one
of the most powerful organizations his master plans came off weak and
his ruthlessness tame.2b) Dave Bautista. They used him pretty good with his introduction and
a fight scene in the movie, but the car chase scene was horrible. Bond
was essentially talking to moneypenny on the phone about bad guys rap
sheets while Bautista's character was chasing him down in a car (but he
was more following Bond then attempting to shoot him or run him off the
road). At one point during the chase scene Bautista pulls up next to
bond and is looking at Bond and their eyes meet up... and nothing
happens Bond pulls ahead. Is this a love story between two men or is
this a bada$$ car chase scene where the bad guy is trying run him off
the road/pound him into the ground? 3) This film has max level cheese that at times I could have sworn this
movie was written by Bollywood writers. I don't mind a decent amount of
cheese, but if you're piling it on and the expiry date shows 10 years
ago there's a problem. 3a) Helicopter intro Scene 3b) save the girl or
building blows up scene 3c) Bonds helicopter chasing vehicle convoy 4) Boring car chase and fight scenes (with camera tricks to make it
look more epic which i'm not a fan of and its as bad as lens flares) 5) Bond falls in love with a woman he hardly knows (it didn't feel
believable) but that's OK because he's ready to leave his life as a spy6) The story felt all over the place, and at times Bond is purposely
made to look weak and suddenly drinks a RedBull and tears it up 007
style. I didn't really connect with a lot of the characters either.7) The instant you saw Bond towering over the enemy at the end you
already knew he wasn't going to do anything they gave you obvious clues
earlier on through M thats how it was going to play out.I couldn't even disconnect myself from the flaws just to enjoy it as an
action movie since it was overall boring. If you can't connect with the
story, 2.5 hours is way too long for a few flashy scene's.
