2
This can't be the movie Eli intended . . .

Opening Day. Waited 2 years. Pretty dazed and confused, and I just want
to put on the record that there is a vibe in the flow of this film that
gives the impression it's been sliced and diced up and put back
together again for reasons that hopefully will leak out at some point.
This seems like a movie torn from it's director's hands, and
homogenized for American audiences.Keep focusing on the fact that Eli Roth is not stupid, and during this
2 year waiting period and reading about the stages it went through,
SOMETHING had to be causing the delays. This was intended as a homage,
or re-imagining of Cannibal Holocaust, and seeing Mr. Roth's arc of
history, he had a blueprint to go off on that it looks like at first he
was going to do.I am willing to bet there are HOURS of footage he shot that went
unused, allusions to the original "Holocaust" gore, yet they are like
writing full sentences as part of a paragraph, then all of a sudden,
the sentence just "stops" - and if you know the source material - you
know precisely why the action stops, and it's because it would have
been a bridge too far for American audiences. There are several times,
we get the foreshadowing (like someone taking a p*ss, not a spoiler)
that is clearly a setup for something that happened in Cannibal
Holocaust, yet you see the lead up . . . .the pitch . . . .and then
there's no hit. It was clearly ripped out. Hollywood ruins everything
with it's formulas. My hope was Eli would wield some power, and do what
the French have been doing and break some ground in the horror /
thriller genre. I don't like that I hated this experience tonight. I
was pulling for it. If you were hoping for a new level, you still can
only go to the French, with Haute Tension, Inside, Frontier(e)s, and
Martyrs. They leave Hollywood in the dust. Sure, it was aggravated by several cringe worthy moments of dialogue,
but it was mostly tight. The lead actress was amazing and nearly
carried the entire picture on her shoulders. The villain's arc
completely unbelievable and cartoon-ish. Greg Nicotero from the Walking Dead did the effects, and I was
salivating for how much more he was going to get away with than he
could on television, yet this was LESS than we see on a weekly basis
with Walking Dead! Less gore than television? The Cannibals of Terminus
arc was infinitely more visually horrifying than this. I didn't have to
look away once. The laughter in the theater tonight didn't come at the
right parts either. No one would be cracking jokes in these characters
situations.Say what you will about Hostel - it reinvented the genre a bit for
American audiences, and caused the creation of the idiotic expression
"torture porn" to roll off everyone's lips in an excuse to explain
breaking new ground.I've never heard of a completed film of this nature delayed for so long
without explanation. I think the original vision is shut down, I think
major moments were cut, and knowing the blueprint of Cannibal
Holocaust, the ending is particularly infuriating because anyone with a
film background knew where the ending was headed - yet in a series of
strange edits that reek of "post post production tag ons", we seem
setup for a damn sequel. Jammed into the middle of the credits,
seriously? Half the audience was gone. That's the most disgusting
torture of the night.
