3
Great photography, not so great film

You are almost immediately plunged into the action, in a similar way to
the opening of 'Saving Private Ryan', with a Native American attack on
a group of fur trappers. DiCaprio even does that momentarily deaf thing
that Tom Hanks does. Lots of bows and arrows and gore and excellent
photography that is really immersive. Great opening scene.There there's the scene where DiCaprio is mauled by a grizzly bear.
Again, really believable, exciting and up front and personal - you can
almost smell the bear's stinking breath. Brilliant. And then there's ... well ... not much really. Photography and scenery
are by and large excellent but you do get the feeling that better use
could have been made of them. Iñárritu often seems to chop scenes
around for no particular reason, although you do get the occasional
sense of the vast wilderness that comes over well on the big screen.Dialogue is scarce. Most of it goes to Tom Hardy who tries to put on a
Texan accent but succeeds in sounding as if he has a sock in his mouth
(does he specialise in being inaudible? remember him as the mumbling
Bane in 'The Dark Knight Rises'?). Then there's the storyline. You know the ending, right? (Just look up
the definition of 'revenant'.) Leo is up against it and he suffers a
great deal. But you know he is going to survive. So when, to top
everything, he falls off a cliff on his horse you realise he's actually
become Mr Indestructible. And two and a half hours of crawling,
grimacing and wincing does not a very entertaining film make.There are also several non-credible plot twists. Like when Tom Hardy
(a.k.a. The Mumbler) somehow cracks an impressive-looking safe and
makes off with the garrison money and just two guys go after him,
including the garrison commander. This nicely sets up the final
confrontation between Mr Indestructible and The Mumbler .... but
really? We also develop little or no emotional connection with the main
character. The silent dream scenes are a clichéd way of trying to do
this and they don't work in my opinion - they're just puzzling and
boring. Nor do we see much of the relationship between Leo and his son
to set up the emotional links between them - just Leo being harsh and
dishing out tough love a couple of times. The pacing is also poor. Once you've passed the opening scene and the
grizzly scene, feel free to go and refresh your popcorn - you won't
miss much. Overall, the film is self-consciously bleak and overdetermined and is
unevenly paced. A better director might possibly have made this a good
film but Iñárritu is clearly not David Lean.If DiCaprio gets an Oscar for this it will be because the Academy think
they owe him one and possibly because of the hype. This is a film that
will be forgotten. If you want to see a good silent movie with snow,
ice, struggle for survival and even the odd grizzly bear thrown in,
watch Chaplin's 'The Gold Rush' - it's far more entertaining.
