1
Have to do something to balance out the 10s

After I watched this movie last month, I have had to come to IMDb every
other day, sort the reviews, and read those below 5/10 in order to get
this off my chest.This movie is so pretentious that every time I think of it I become
super uncomfortable, confusing, and mad. I cannot help noticing that
the director also has Babel under his name. All the things add up then.
That sxxt is also a load of broken scenes, unreasonable normal people
(NOT EVEN ARTSY ACTORS)around world doing the most insane things, and
self-indulgent directing. I have gone through the same feelings when I watched that mess, eight
years ago. Unfortunately or fortunately, I was a college kid back then
so not sure what to say about such a movie that is supposed to be deep,
deep and deep. Now I am a grown-up and have the gut to say: fxxk off,
whoever writes or directs this sxxt (with all due respect to the
actors). First of all, one can easily tell the director/writer does not care
about the audience. By putting those semi-scientific scenes in trailer,
they were saying: ha, you stupid and shallow people, you are amused by
these man-flying scenes, aren't you? When you walk into the cinema, you
would finally see what this movie is really like. Cry! You are punished
for liking to see some man-flying scenes. You are exactly one of the
group that we mock at and that chases Hollywood stars and fancies
commercial movies. On the other hand, after showing a big middle finger to the sane people
who pay good money to watch his shxty movie, the director/writer turns
to the Academic critics with a big flattering smile, and does his best
to please those similarly self-indulgent people. By throwing all the
big concepts here and there without fully development, he simply did
it. He successfully entertains those critics and academic reviewers who
consider themselves AS SAME DIFFERENT. Second, there is literally no plot. I can hardly believe anyone would
synchronize with any of these CRAZY people if he/she is not crazy. I
care about no body except Keaton's role, only because I wish him just
to die, one way or another. Third, I understand what the director/writer tries SO hard to deliver.
These actors, they are tough, they are living miserable life in search
for a realization of themselves and a recognition of others. However,
what they actually accomplish is only making the audience miserable,
but in a totally different way. I feel so miserable watching broken
plots, under-developed characters, and unreasonable actions that I
cannot pay less attention on how miserable the actors are. Fourth, anyone who rates this movie over 6, could you tell me why is
there a lesbian scene out of nowhere and going nowhere? Also while so
many have praised Stone for her role, could anyone tell me what her
role is and what does the writer want to say through her mouth? OK, hopefully after this I can finally escape from this absolutely
hyped movie.
