10
Brilliant adaptation

Leo Tolstoy's Anna Karenina is one of the most acclaimed novels of all
time, not least of all because of the excellence of the book's themes.
These themes of Tolstoy's are expressed extremely well in Joe Wright's
adaptation of Anna Karenina. First and foremost and the area that
really sets the film apart is the theatricality of certain settings in
the film. Many scenes take place on sets made to resemble the stage,
especially early on. I was initially baffled by this choice but I
slowly came to realize that it functions as a way to make visual the
artificiality of the world inhabited by Anna Karenina, specifically its
outdated values. It's extremely clear that Russia was undergoing a
major transition during the time in which the narrative is set. Trains
and railways play a major role in the film and of course trains are a
common symbol of technological progress. There's more than passing
reference to the freeing of the serfs and the radical ideology even of
some aristocrats, which echoes the life of Tolstoy himself. Much is
also made of the cultural shifts in Moscow and St. Petersburg, the
former of which had apparently become rather old-fashioned compared to
the relatively progressive Petersburg at the time. The film suggests
that the reaction of the country's upper class was to ignore the major
changes that were occurring and cling all the harder to the past,
especially with regards to social institutions. Thus the eponymous
heroine finds it impossible to escape her loveless marriage with any
social standing intact, which eventually drives her mad. This isn't just a plainly literal translation of the source, however,
as Wright's clever use of the stage is just one of many visual
techniques he uses to make this material cinematic. Wright's use of
landscape is unusually strong, particularly in the surreal final shot.
His use of mirrors made me think of some of the works of RW Fassbinder,
another supreme visual stylist. Another neat touch is having background
characters freeze and fade into the background to suggest the
heightened emotional state of the main characters, particularly in the
scene where Anna has her first dance with the rakish Vronsky. Overall,
another excellent movie from one of the most promising English language
directors of his generation and the best 2012 film I've seen so far.
