3
Typical Rubbish I would expect from Hollywood

It is interesting to note the review that I read on this film about the
writer not understanding why the critics hated this movie when he, and
the audience he was with, loved it. Well, while I am not a paid critic
or film reviewer, I will have to say that I pretty much hated this
movie. I thought the whole concept of two CIA agents abusing their
privileges to stalk a girl that they both liked was ridiculous, and the
fact that they actually get away with it borders on the really
concerning.I really don't know about the United States, but here in Australia
stalking is illegal and can land you up with a gaol term. Also, using
resources to check up on somebody for your own personal interests is
not only illegal, but unethical. The question that I then ask is
whether people's right to privacy have been taken away to the point
that if a CIA agent wants to track some woman because of some desire to
have sex with her then he can? If that is the case then I guess all of
the right-wing conspiracy theorists are actually correct because it
seems that nothing is sacred.Of course there is also the girl whom the director plays as a
stereotypical dumb blonde. That, personally, is insulting and to be
honest, quite sexist as well. Personally a woman who drags two guys
along because she cannot make up her mind as to who she really wants to
date is not really a woman that I am interested in. Further, the fact
that two friends are at each others throats over a single girl is just
pathetic (though I must admit that it does happen). However since she
actually chose one of them, thus leaving the (in my opinion) better man
out in the cold just wasn't a satisfying ending (even though the better
man got back together with his estranged wife).Okay, you might argue that it is just a movie, but seriously, when has
that argument actually held any water? Time and time again I hear
people referring to Hollywood movies as lessons in life, right up until
somebody like me points out the holes and the flaws in these movies (as
well as the incredible moral ambiguity that surrounds them) at which
point they simply say 'it is only a movie'. Seriously people, make up
your minds. Are you going to use Hollywood movies as moral guideposts
because if you are, please don't hide behind the pathetic excuse of
'its only a movie' because if you are, stop using them as moral
guideposts.
