3
A clumsy and thoughtless adaptation with a few highlights

I'm often on the defending party for films. I notice that many
reviewers seem to complain much about any movie is released. That was
the case with Alien: covenant, for example. That movie was far superior
to this one. Prior to the film, I watched in about three days the entire Death Note
series. Because I really just got into it and don't plan on watching
the anime again soon, I don't consider myself a fan (never watched
animes before, by the way), but I reckon it was a very clever series.
At times it had its cheesiness, but still worked pretty well. When the source material is well written, I don't think that departing
from it is the right choice. The Martian proved that, for instance.
Changching the plot should be always for the benefit of it, and not to
overly simplify the story and to take out some of it core aspects.Death Note's film adaptation chose this second route. I have the
feeling that they didn't understand at all what was the series about.
The anime mostly focused on L and Light's intellectual fight, battles
of tricks and making one and another be unsure about what his
intentions are. Ryuk (who I thought would be a practical effect and not
CGI, as instead it sadly proved to be) had more importance. Truth is,
this movie had also a very low runtime in order to cover up the plot
well, it might have needed an extra 40 minutes (so a 2h 30m film), but
it would have needed an entirely different plot.Instead, when the movie finished, it turned out to be just a rushed
sequence of events, most of which seemed incoherent if seen next to the
anime, which was a very clever story. Ultimately, the film settles for
a needless and overly bloody gore feast. The speed of this film is so
fast paced that, by when I arrived to the 1 hour mark, I could not
believe that we had forty minutes left. And I came to realise that
nothing that happened felt relevant to the whole storyline. Death note
should have been adapted in a slightly slower paced film, and had
minimal gore (most of people died by heart attack). That wouldn't mean
that it had to be necessarily a boring film, or a non-R rated one. The
themes of moral ambiguity and killing powers make it anyways a very
dark story to tell.The only positive note I could find in all of this is that sometimes
both L and Light's actor delivered scenes which made me suggest that
they where up to the roles, if the original anime was to be followed. L
sometimes used the anime character's same line delivery, Light seemed
capable of behaving as a bloodthirsty, dark and evil character. Sadly,
the movie didn't allow the actors to perform their characters
rightfully. Williem Dafoe's voice sounded exactly like the original
Ryuk's. That said, Ryuk appeared for about 4 minutes, so there wasn't
much there.Ultimately, this is the perfect example on how an adaptation of a good
source material can simply suck. I recall only Eragon being such an
unfaithful, unrightful and almost offensive adaptation to a very clever
and deep story.
