4
Dealing with segregation does not necessarily make a good movie

For his second feature film, Theodore Melfi tries this time to deal
with a more serious topic: the role of black women in the American
society in early 60's. This is how we meet Katherine Goble, a gifted
woman, working as a "computer" in the Langley Research Center and two
of her colleagues and friends Mary Jackson, yearning for a engineer
position and Dorothy Vaughan an unofficial supervisor. All along the
movie, we will see how women had to work hard to establish theirselves
and gain recognition in the male-dominated engineering world.This is for the plot, now let's go deeper into this movie. Actually,
there is nothing fundamentally wrong in this movie, everything is just
OK. But making a film about segregation and misogyny does not make
necessarily a good movie. And here is the evidence. During the two
hours of this movie we will witness all forms of discrimination but
nothing more that we've seen dozens of times. Unlike some other movies,
such as Fences for example, where these sensitive topics were dealt
with subtlety we are here just talking about discrimination to give
substance to the movie.That aside, the story behind the movie aims to show the work of NASA
engineers and computers during the 60's star wars between Americans and
Russians. Once again, in order to wow the spectators, characters just
throw us mathematical formulas and spatial jargon all along the movie.
But when you have a better look on it you can just see trivia or
nonsense formulas. It is a common way in movies to try to impress
spectators with non sense jargon, and this movie is not an exception.Eventually, there are all the same some good things with this movie. It
allows us to have a better understanding about these hidden figures who
were at the root of American space conquest and it is also a way to
acknowledge the value of their work. Besides the acting and the
filmmaking are good enough.To conclude, even though the screen writing remains interesting I think
that this story would have been a better documentary than a movie.
