1
Not Goodenov For Me, Man

I love DeNiro. Love Pfeiffer. Love Jones. But I hate this movie. It was
one of those flicks that had me wishing it'd end soon so I could get on
with my life, and if I weren't rather "OCD-ish" about finishing what
I've started, I'd have turned it off after 20 minutes. It really was
*that* bad -- so bad that, in the middle of it, I turned to my husband
and wondered aloud if DeNiro actually read the script before he signed
on.The main characters -- the family members -- were surpassingly
unlikable, their only redeeming quality being the love they had for
each other. If that affection didn't exist, they could rightly be
considered complete psychopaths. They blew things up, killed people,
beat people, committed arson, stole -- and all for ridiculous reasons.
It's sad that we're apparently expected to relate to and root for such
people.Their being despicable is one thing, but their being inconsistent is
another. Even if some viewer somewhere actually were to like these
people, it's hard to imagine anyone buying into characters that just
don't make logical sense. The daughter, for ex., is a seriously tough
chick, a butt-whupper par excellence who's down with her brother's
scheming to become a veritable "mob boss" at their school. She's also,
though, a wide-eyed virgin who fell in love with and threw herself at
some hot, French tutor, and then almost killed herself when he didn't
treat her seduction of him as anything more than an "experience." Another problem with "The Family" amounts to a sort of "deus ex
machina" type of thing. To move the plot along, some crazily dreamed-up
coincidences occurred, my favorite being a school newspaper from
Normandy, France ending up in the hands of "the bad guys" -- in a
prison in New York City. Chyeah.Further, the movie couldn't make up its mind as to genre. It was
supposed to be a dark comedy, but wasn't remotely funny enough to fit
the bill. Some reviews here pretty much accuse folks who talk about
this flick's violence of not "getting" the concept of a dark comedy, so
I'll set the record straight: I do get it. For ex., "Motel Hell" and
"Pulp Fiction" are violent. And they're pretty hilarious in parts. "The
Room" ends in a suicide, but had me laughing all the way through it.
See? I *get* it. But *this* movie isn't funny at all. And it fails as a
drama because of the characters' utter nastiness and "unrelatability,"
and those inane coincidences.Worst of all, though, the movie was simply b-o-r-i-n-g. It's not even
"so bad, it's good." Skip it.
