8
"She ran six miles barefoot in the snow and died of frozen burst lungs ..."

A female FBI agent teams with a veteran game tracker to investigate a
bizarre murder on a remote Indian reservation. Director Taylor
Sheridan. Stars Jeremy Renner and Elizabeth Olsen as the FBI agent.
Viewed at Cannes, 2017, where it won the Best director award in the Un
Certain Regard sector.Rape and murder on the reservation with Jeremy Renner really coming
into his own as a not particularly handsome leading man. Very strong as
the predator hunter with high powered rifle on high speed snowmobile.
The picture opens with a long sequence of a woman running barefoot
across a vast nighttime snowscape until she finally drops dead.
Eventually we will find out that she was brutally gang raped and was
fleeing for her life. Reservation great white hunter, Renner, starts an
informal investigation on his own. An FBI agent, (Olsen) is called in
to assist with the investigation. A junior woman agent is all the FBI
cares to spare for this case, obviously regarded as unimportant because
who. cares about Indians! But, since only the FBI has police authority
on Indian reservation territory they have to make at least a token
contribution to the investigationAt the end of this snowy subzero nail biter, Renner having tracked down
the main rapist subjects the now wounded and fleeing central SOB to a
most satisfying form of vigilante justice -- making him crawl on his
belly bloodied and barefoot in the snow to a hideous painfully slow
death -- the same kind of death the multiple rape victim at the
beginning had to endure. The fetching female FBI agent called in on the
case (Elizabeth Olsen) provides a slightly romantic angle to an
otherwise edgy all male Indian reservation thriller. Beautiful snowy
mountain photography throughout is more than noteworthy. Overall one of
the best films of the Cannes week.Kudos to director Taylor Sheridan and all others involved in this
remarkable outdoor production. This Weinstein brothers prod was filmed
in Utah although the setting is supposedly Wyoming on the Wind River
Reservation. An added reality perk, real Indians, not Hollywood
palefaces, portray the Native American characters. And do it so well!The Wind River Indian Reservation is an Indian reservation for the
Eastern Shoshone and Northern Arapaho tribes of Native Americans in the
central western portion of the U.S. state of Wyoming. The entrance to
the Wind River Reservation is the small town of Lander, Wyo. which is
actually seen in one brief scene, but the magnificent mountain
snowscapes we see are all in Utah. Geographical poetic license. Highly
recommended off-beat scenic thriller with highly satisfying retribution
at the end.
