3
Hell or High Water

Yet another film that I was looking forward to seeing, I even had to
wait for this one to get to my area (one of the many downsides to
living in middle America) Hell or High Water was sure to be a treat. I
kept hearing positive reviews of this film, and it stayed at 100% on
rotten tomatoes for awhile, so I was hopeful. In addition to the
positive reviews, I thought Ben Foster, Jeff Bridges, and Gil
Birmingham together couldn't a bad film make. The 2016 feature by David
Mackenzie tells the tale of 2 brothers who will stop at nothing to save
the land of their deceased mother, the last link to their childhood,
and the riches that the oil under her land will promise. Marcus Hamilton (Jeff Bridges) is a Texas lawman weeks before a forced
retirement, training Alberto Parker (Gil Birmingham) to be able to take
his place. Just when it seems like it will be a quiet couple weeks
before retirement, a rash of bank robberies occur and Marcus and
Alberto take the responsibility to solve the case. Tanner (Ben Foster)
and Toby Howard (Chris Pine) have gotten the brunt of many bad
situations in their lives. After their mother passed away, they were
faced with the realization that the land on which she lived was being
seized by the bank. After recently learning that there is a massive
amount of oil under that land invigorates the brothers to save the land
by any means necessary. Toby has a former wife and a child to think
about and believes himself to be indebted to them and wants to gift
them the land and the oil so they will always be taken care of. Tanner
is constantly on the run, in and out of jail, and has nothing to lose
by helping his brother, even if the means are criminal. After weaving
together an intricate plan of robbing the very bank responsible for the
foreclosure on their mother's land, then securing the deed through that
very bank, the two begin an old west style run of bank robberies with a
couple of Texas lawmen on their tails. As much as I had been looking forward to Hell or High Water, I was
monumentally disappointed. Early in the film, we see over the shoulder
of Jeff Bridges' character as he is reading his forced retirement
letter from the department; this begins the formulaic downturn suffered
through the rest of the film. Each pivotal moment was seen coming a
mile away and easily predicted. There are few things more boring than
watching a lazy movie in which the audience can predict each move made
by the characters, and even each piece of dialogue spoken throughout
the entire film. Jeff Bridges was flat on screen, Chris Pine was
horribly miscast, and there are Grand Canyon sized holes in character
development that are never solved. I never knew enough about the
characters to become invested in them. Ben Foster was the only shining
spot in this film, but even his exceptional acting couldn't save the
film. A disappointment all around, I can't figure out yet why Hell or
High Water is getting the amount of positivity the film has enjoyed
thus far.
