5
A Very Loving Hate Letter to Horror

"I love being scared." So said Joss Whedon in an interview with Total
Film regarding "The Cabin in the Woods," which he produced and co-wrote
with director Drew Goddard. "The things that I don't like are kids
acting like idiots, the devolution of the horror movie into torture
porn and into a long series of sadistic comeuppances. Drew and I both
felt that the pendulum had sung a little too far in that direction."
When I first read that quote a few weeks ago, I wished Whedon had been
there with me, for I wanted to shake him by the hand and thank him for
publicly reaffirming what I've felt about horror movies for quite some
time. But then I actually saw "The Cabin in the Woods," and I couldn't
help but wonder why I wasn't seeing things as he saw them. Something
wasn't quite right.The film, promoted by Whedon himself as a "very loving hate letter" and
"a serious critique of what we love and what we don't about horror
movies," is nowhere near as clever or insightful as it has been made to
seem. Whedon and Goddard clearly have fun with a number of threadbare
horror clichés, but never once do they actually say anything relevant
about them. All these men really do is confirm that they exist, which
is shortsighted considering the fact that most horror audiences are
already well aware of this. They think they're letting us in on the
joke when in fact we were in on it all along. What I was promised was
satire; what I got was a confusing, ridiculous, and surprisingly
depressing film in which archetypes and conventions are addressed but
barely improved.Central to the story are five college kids who were clearly intended to
be one-dimensional caricatures. But pointing out their shallowness and
actually commenting on it are two entirely different matters, and
frankly, I would have preferred the filmmakers to go in the latter
direction. There's Dana, the reluctant virgin (Kristen Connolly).
There's her best friend, Jules, the perpetually horny sexpot (Anna
Hutchison), who just dyed her hair blonde; although she can't pronounce
one of the words on Dana's math book, it's declared that she's premed.
There's Jules' boyfriend, Curt, the hunky jock (Chris Hemsworth).
There's Holden, the scholarly gentleman (Jesse Williams), who will
inevitably fall for Dana. Finally, there's Marty, the goofy pothead
(Fran Kranz), who sounds like he knows more than he initially lets on.They leave campus and take an RV to a remote part of the woods, where
they vacation in a strangely decorated and certifiably creepy cabin.
Little do they know that beneath the cabin lies a subterranean office
superstructure, where a bureaucratic team of workers in suits, ties,
and lab coats watch their every move via surveillance cameras. Two
scientists, Hadley (Richard Jenkins) and Sitterson (Bradley Whitford),
use a force field to seal the college kids into the wooded area and
subject them to a scenario of their own design. They manipulate the
circumstances as much as possible, mostly by the release of airborne
chemicals that can change a person's ability to think. They eventually
open the cellar, where, amidst an eclectic mix of creepy Victorian
paraphernalia, Dana finds an old diary. Upon reading a Latin
incantation, zombies emerge from the ground and descend on the cabin.At this point, I'm going to stop describing the plot in detail, as
there are numerous twists and turns that most will not want spoiled. I
will say that the film is intended to be both frightening and funny,
and to an extent, it succeeds at both. In the humor department, we have
more than the antics of the college kids; we have the working
environment of the subterranean office. Just as it would be in an urban
skyrise, we see division of labor and the formation of cliques. We see
money pools and office partying, and there's even enough time to work
in the playful ribbing of the nerdy intern. When they're not working,
the scientists will gab about their personal lives; in the opening
scene, Sitterson spends a great deal of time complain about his wife
and her new cabinets.There's an extremely bloody confrontation involving every imaginable
monster from the annals of horror, from wispy spirits to werewolves to
giant cobras to robotic slicing machines to zombies to carnivorous
mermen. All leads to a Lovecraftian ending that was not only
lame-brained and inappropriate but also needlessly upsetting. Was that
the point of "The Cabin in the Woods"? To espouse a nihilistic
viewpoint of humanity? If this is Whedon's idea of sticking it to the
makers of slasher films and gore fests, he might want to steer clear of
the horror genre altogether. I hate to think that there are other
genres he feels have been corrupted. If he were to write another very
loving hate letter, say for a romantic comedy or a musical, would it
too end in the same way?-- Chris Pandolfi (www.atatheaternearyou.net)
