2
Entertaining movie spoiled by a monumentally immature ending

Frankenweenie is a beautifully realized movie, funny and poignant in
places, with some deeper points about the nature of science, life and
death, and people's herd mentality. As such it can be enjoyed by both
adults and kids of, say, over 8 years old, despite the darker themes
and images. It could have been quite a good movie, as the main
character finds transcendence in the last few minutes, shifting his
understanding of life, and with that of death, and having made many new
friends in the process. Sadly, frustratingly, maddeningly, the movie
throws all these achievements out of the window in the very last 30
seconds, by inserting the typical, cheap, sentimental,
intelligence-insulting, Hollywood ending.There's a deeper and very tragic point here, which is that the ending
is the embodiment of the dark side of the USA. I say this as a fan of
the county, and someone who has lived there, but the essence of this
dark side is a world view that's epically immature in several major
respects. One aspect is its total incapacity to come to terms with the
reality if life, and with that of death. Another aspect is dividing the
world into black and white, ie only pure evil and pure good, and
Hollywood's movie heroes are, of course, always all-good, and the only
credible storyline is invariably the obliteration of their all-evil
adversaries. The good versus evil world view leads to sentimentality
and an utter lack of depth, understanding, and genuine emotion.In real life it means that Americans tend to see themselves as all-good
and all-powerful, with a very sentimental view of the world, in denial
of the facts of life, most importantly those of life and death, and
whenever someone comes along to disturb this illusion, the typical
response is to shoot 'm up, as happens in a murderous US foreign
policy.My apologies for dragging all this into a review of a kids' movie, but
the fact is that the US entertainment industry is one important aspect
of US culture in which the US world view is reflected, and which also
in turns shapes that very world view. One would hope that the more
intelligent directors, like Tim Burton, would have the courage to stand
up to the pressure from studios and focus-group findings and make
movies with at least some degree of depth and a realistic understanding
of the human condition. But not so,apparently.
