1
Truly awful!

If you take the Shakespeare out of this mess, you would have an
amateurish "sword and sorcery", pot-boiler movie which would (and
should!) be laughed at.Re-insert Shakespeare (who must be disturbing his own bones by turning
in his grave in Stratford-upon-Avon)and you have one of the most
mangled versions of "The Scottish Play" that has been my misfortune to
sit through.Briefly: scenes chopped, changed but not for the better; significant
events simply skimmed over or missed; scenes invented and gratuitously
inserted (e.g. the daft opening scene); lines entirely stripped of
their power; lines entirely missed out and not for any particularly
good reason. There is nothing wrong with interpreting Shakespeare and
(say) missing out scenes and lines to give a vision of the meaning of
the play as the director sees it - e.g. Olivier missed out nearly 1,000
lines of Henry V in his 1944 film production of Henry V (not a film
that I personally care that much for but it was effective and did not
do a violence to the play). However Justin Kurzel's effort strikes me
as the production of someone who simply did not understand his
material.The casting was frequently dire, Marion Cottilard was simply miscast as
Lady Macbeth she may be many things but this was a step too far for her
in my opinion. Malcolm was, in effect, a bit-player, mostly shorn of
the small role he has; there are too many other examples. That said,
Michael Fassbender gave an almost creditable/credible performance as
the eponymous hero but he had a mangled text to work with.The Scottish accents were a curious mishmash of the genuine (i.e. the
role was actually played by a Scot) and the dreadful made up,
modern-day "Glasgow" accents that the BBC seems to trot out when it
wants to do something about Scotland and show it elsewhere. That said,
the diction was very poor - we certainly do not need declamation a la
Henry Irvine but having lines mumbled in a hoarse "tough guy" whisper
(a la Clint Eastwood as Dirty Harry) was neither helpful nor
illuminating.The choice of locations was quite bizarre - some were very good and
atmospheric - conveying extremis well but others were, it seems, simply
plucked at random from something like the Lord of the Rings.
