10
I believe! I believe!

My Little Pony: The Movie is certainly not the Citizen Kane of animated
movies, or the Citizen Kane of animated movies based on toy lines or TV
shows. Yet it bears one great distinction. It's the most refreshing
experience that I've had in a movie theater for the year of 2017.
Simply put, they don't make animated movies like this anymore. In an era that we are experiencing a period of social unrest and chaos
in this country that has not been seen since the late 1960s- early
1970s, the last thing a lot of us want to do is to go to a movie not
only to feel bad, but also to be lectured on how bad the world is
today. This sort of negativity has been creeping into animated films,
including last year's Zootopia.I saw this movie at a Thursday night showing, before everyone starting
coming in on the weekend. Let me tell you, you should ignore these
negative critics, and come in with an open mind like I did.There are various reasons why they don't make animated movies like this
anymore. First, what everyone notices, it's done with 2D animation, an
art form that a lot of studios gave up for dead just 14 years earlier
in favor of CGI. It also features 3D CGI backgrounds, which to some
viewers, will contrast to the 2D animation, yet truth be told, wasn't
the famous ballroom scene in Beauty and the Beast like that? Yet while
it looks like it could have been made with pencils and paper, it
actually isn't. They upgraded from Flash, used extensively on the TV
show this movie was based on, to Toon Boom, a higher end animation
software developed in Canada, which was where this film was made. Given
that I'm a very tech savvy person and that Adobe is killing off Flash
in 2020, I'm not surprised that the production team made this move. The
animation is such an improvement from the TV show, it looks more
cinematic, and it made me feel like I was watching a Disney or Don
Bluth film from the 1990s rather than My Little Pony. The production
crew worked under the film's limited budget, which actually gives me
hope because budgets get high for animated films these days. Given the
fact that Blade Runner cost $150 million and that I believe My Little
Pony only cost a fifth of that amount, there's not too much pressure on
this film to get a huge opening weekend like Blade Runner. It appears
that given merchandise, ticket sales, and social media clicks, this
film will actually make money for Hasbro. Speaking of Disney, here's another reason why they don't make animated
movies like this anymore. While the story has elements very evocative
of Disney, including the story (kingdom sets up festival, bad guys come
to take over, princess goes on a journey to save her land, songs that
move the plot, meeting new allies on their journey, defeating the bad
guys, celebrating, and roll credits), there are several story elements
that Disney doesn't use anymore. First and foremost, a dark villain
that stays throughout the entire movie. Disney used to have a lot of
these in their films, now they just cop out and give us surprise
villains, such as a prince or a sheep. They also used to have funny
little villain sidekicks, now with these surprise villains, they are
virtually nonexistent. This film has a funny little villain sidekick,
and when he gets screen time, he's pretty fun to watch. Also, unlike
many of the new Disney and Pixar movies, the villains, along with
several bits of imagery in this film, can actually be kind of scary,
which is more than what I can say for the people who make those
Despicable Me movies. Third, and most importantly, the film refuses to make cheap jokes,
obnoxious pop culture references, and preachy political statements. The
recently released Emoji Movie, which proudly sits at the Bottom 100 on
IMDb, is an example of all three, judging from what I have heard from
people who saw it. My Little Pony: The Movie offers real escapism,
which is something that a lot of these recent movies have lacked in the
last 3 years. The first movies I ever saw in a theater were The Lion
King and Toy Story, and both those movies had stunning imagery,
captivated me, and made me want to go to those worlds. Watching My
Little Pony: The Movie in a theater made me feel like that kid again.
It's an escape. The people that made this film, Hasbro, Lionsgate, and
DHX Media are very much like Peter Pan whisking us off to Neverland. It
may not be everyone's cup of tea, these animated movies, but there's
enough elements in here to satisfy both existing fans of the show and
newcomers. My mom, who isn't even a fan of the show and is not really
into animation, watched the movie with me and she found it to be
delightful. Speaking of, this film is an absolute delight for anyone
ages 2-110. Even if you're not into animation or My Little Pony, you'll
still find something to like in this film because it is filling with
innocence. I would really like that kind of innocence to be brought
back to the movies. Why would you hate something that is cute? It could
have been an hour and a half feature length toy commercial, but instead
acts much like a fine Disney movie made during the 90s. Two words I can
end this fabulous review on: I BELIEVE! I BELIEVE!
