2
The sexiest murderess on screen in a poor, irrelevant attempt to shock.

I was fortunate enough to attend a screening of gory horror American
Mary followed by a Q&A session with the co-writers and directors, Jen
and Sylvia Soska, and star Katharine Isabelle. Okay, scrap the
'fortunate'. And the scariest parts of the evening were the claim by
the Soska twins that "Some people have said this is the best film they
have ever seen!" and the bloke who told us all about the operations he
was due to have on his legs before enquiring from the trio if he should
go ahead.There's very little good to say about American Mary. I entered the
screening room with high hopes and departed wide-eyed and dismayed.
It's embarrassing to laugh at unintentionally funny moments in a film
but there were plenty of them. American Mary is indeed shocking, but
not in a good way.American Mary is clearly a vanity project from two girls whose
executive producer parents apparently (part) funded the project. Two
girls who have watched Human Centipede once too often. Two girls who
are trying reeeeally hard to be rebellious and shock the world by doing
naughty things on screen and swearing pointlessly and with embarrassing
amounts of emphasis on each expletive just so we get how rude they're
being. Such pain! Even in the Q&A they tried desperately hard to shock;
the first sentence out of their mouths referring to some scallywag as a
f****** c*** and then repeated, over-egged obscenities punctuating
inane responses to toadying fanboy questions. Oh, to have been shocked
and offended. That would have been a joy compared to the embarrassment
of watching three children showing off to a roomful of adults. There's
an old adage: If you want to be seen, stand up; if you want to be
heard, speak up; if you want to be respected, shut up. I saw, I heard,
I departed and I averted my gaze.American Mary is a horror flick about a disenchanted surgery intern,
Mary (Isabelle) with financial worries who is sucked into the very dark
side of plastic surgery aka body modification aka freakish mutilation.
It starts out as a way for Mary to earn money (via torture and creating
Barbie lookalikes) then becomes a hobby and finally a way to exact
revenge and satisfy her perverse whims.I don't have a problem with the subject matter; it's great to be
challenged. I have a problem with the dire script, the god-awful cod
accents (the worst of which are from the Soska twins who cast
themselves as, um, freakish twins) and the horrendous sound mix that
changes mid-scene (!) and at one point had us all looking over our left
shoulders to work out which member of the audience was moaning, only to
realize it was the character off-screen in an entirely different
direction! Random scenes are plonked into the film to separate others
and to imply the passage of time. A cringeworthy scene in which Mary
learns some news of her grandmother prompts further smothered guffaws
and is just one more reason to condemn this amateurish tripe. This is
just one long, clumsy, pointless film that really wants to be offensive
but succeeds in being virtually irrelevant.Certainly there are a couple of moments when the stomach twinges with
the implied gore, but mostly the horror is in the performance. Paula
Lindeberg is so ridiculously excessive in her performance as the
plasticized Ruby Realgirl with her squeaky voice and clapping hands
that Isabelle comes across as subtlety incarnate. Antonio Cupo plays
strip joint owner Billy Barker as though auditioning to play Mark
Ruffalo and when John Emmet Tracy wanders on to the screen with
intended sincerity as Detective Dolor, the thud was the sound of many
jaws bouncing on the floor. Why does an American detective in an
American film set in America have a 'British' accent? Well, according
to Soska and Soska it's because they wanted their detective to sound
exactly like their hero Clive Barker. It would appear no-one told them
Barker is a Liverpudlian who now speaks with an LA drawl. Yup, that's
about the level of American Mary.So why does American Mary earn two stars? Because the art direction
triumphs, the set is pretty, the principal prosthetics are perfect and
Mary's costumes get progressively sexier as the film rolls on. Costume
designer Jayne Mabbott is by far and away the star of American Mary and
by the time Mary dons her red surgeon's gown in a reference to Dead
Ringers, Mabbott has made her the most erotic murderess on the big
screen.Perhaps next time Soska and Soska are let lose with a camera they
should be 'encouraged' to spend their budget on a few more talents like
Mabbott.For more reviews from The Squiss, subscribe to my blog and like the
Facebook page.
