10
The Legend of Tarzan is Magnifique!

I just experienced The Legend of Tarzan, and in the immortal words of
the Countess Olga de Coude "Magnifique!" is the only thing that I can
think. Sadly, I arrived at the theater for the early release of TLOT to an
empty theater. I sat alone in the center of the empty theater reading
my copy of The Return of Tarzan quietly in wait for the movie to begin.
Slowly a few other viewers trickled in but sadly, the theater might as
well have been completely empty. The previews for other movies came and went as previews do and then the
opening of this long awaited Tarzan began.I sat in rapture as Edgar Rice Burroughs Tarzan came to life in front
of my eyes. Yes, It IS ERB's Tarzan. There are liberties that Mr. Yates
took with the characters and locations, but all in all, THIS IS TARZAN
as he was meant to be. Quiet, Strong, Passionate, steely eyed...
"Magnifique!" The Mangani are Mangani. They are not chimps nor gorillas. They are
huge, magnificent beasts. Were Mr. Burroughs alive today, I
wholeheartedly believe that he would jump up and down like a young
child shouting "YES! YES! That's them!"Kala is every child's mother, protective and loving. The relationship
between Tarzan and her is perfectly portrayed. The love Tarzan feels
for his ape mother is passed on to the movie viewer to be felt, not
just seen.The panoramic views of the jungle are even as ERB described them to be.
Dark, foreboding, beautiful and deadly. It is the jungle of Tarzan.This is not an action movie in the vein of Captain America or any of
the modern action movies. It is a story. A very well told story of
adventure driven by the love of a man for his mate. Is there action? Of
course there is action. It wouldn't be Tarzan without action. But first
and foremost, it is a very well written and delivered story. It is a
story that Edgar Rice Burroughs himself would have told. He would be
proud and finally relieved that his creation had finally come to life
in a manner that does justice to his creative genius.I sat through the movie mesmerized. Spellbound. It ended just like it
should, you won't be disappointed. As the credits began to roll, I quietly stood up, still in a mostly
empty theater, and walked out to my awaiting truck to drive home and
write this review.If people listen to the critics who did not like this movie, they will
be missing out.For those of us who love the works of Edgar Rice Burroughs, GO SEE THIS
MOVIE!I wish I could say more, there is so much to say. I'll end this with
this. I'll go see it again, and again and when it comes out on DVD,
I'll own it and watch it till I have seen it as many times as I have
read the books, which is really saying something.
