9
An enjoyable family film so some people shouldn't be so uptight....

I saw Mirror Mirror in theaters back in April with my niece, but I just
decided to write something on it because it has come under a lot of
criticism and honestly I don't know why.I saw a lot of negativity on
YouTube and many other places so it got me to thinking what really is
the problem with movies geared more toward children? I think fairy tales should bring out the little kid in everybody, but
I've noticed that some people find it hard to revert back to their
childhood or innocence because they think it's cheesy or corny.And with
the recent comparisons between the two Snow Whites (Mirror vs.Snow
White & the Huntsman) it has gotten more and more ridiculous.There has
already been a dark-version of Snow White (Tale of Terror) if anyone
remembers so there has been done already. A comedic version is
interesting and new.I can only comment on Mirror Mirror because I saw it and I enjoyed it.
Snow White (Lily Collins) is treated horribly by her wicked stepmother
The Queen (Julia Roberts) who is ruling the kingdom since her father's
mysterious death. Somehow with the help of the dwarfs and the Prince
(Armie Hammer), Snow White begins to believe in herself and realizes
she has the strength to fight off the wicked Queen.It was a really nice retelling of Snow White because it was a coming of
age story. Never knew who Lily Collins was before this movie, but I
think she was spot-on as Snow White. She has this innocent beauty that
was perfect for Snow White, but she also was courageous, which is a
great role model for young girls nowadays. Might I add, her eyebrows
fit her and there is nothing wrong with them as I've seen nasty
comments about it. They add distinction to her face.The Prince was really comical and funny. Had me laughing a lot. Never
knew who Armie Hammer was before this movie also. I liked him because
it was the opposite from Disney Princes who usually are perfect in
every way without flaws. They can sing, dance,and sword fight, but he
was pretty dense in a way, but it actually suited the movie and it was
intended to be that way.Last but not least, Julia Roberts was divine as the wicked Queen.
Honestly, I love her bitchy and sneering her nose at everyone. Julia is
usually seen as this sweetheart but it was great to see this side of
her. I liked her little on and off British accent too and her pompous
narration to the story.Love the dwarfs, they had absolutely the best one liners. They were
modern and jazzed stuff up.So again I add, every movie does not have to be sinister and Hannibal
Lector evil for it to be considered a good movie. Nor does it have to
have The Hangover- type jokes and vulgarity to be considered worthy of
laughter.The critics can go to hell on this one. I will watch this movie again
and again, especially with my niece.
