10
A Potpourri of Vestiges Review: Paul Thomas Anderson's hypnotic masterpiece featuring a tour de force from Joaquin Phoenix

The Master is the latest film by American filmmaker Paul Thomas
Anderson. The movie comes after a gap of five years following
Anderson's highly successful outing in There Will Be Blood (2007). The
Master stars Joaquin Phoenix, Philip Seymour Hoffman, and Amy Adams in
pivotal roles. Anderson is one of the few commercial filmmakers alive
today who write their own screenplays. And perhaps that's the reason
why he has not been very prolific as a filmmaker혰yielding only once
every 4-5 years. The Master also marks the return of Joaquin Phoenix
from a self-imposed acting break. The movie presents the tale of Freddie Quell (Joaquin Phoenix)혰a WWII
Naval veteran on the brink of a mental breakdown. Freddie belongs to
the dying breed of war veterans which finds it hard to adjust to the
sanities of a post-war civilized world. The excruciating pain and
mental trauma that a soldier experiences during a war is irreversible
and often enough to drive him crazy. Freddie has had a troubled past
but the war has broken him completely. Freddie's pitiful, perverted
mental state can be best described by the two bizarre scenes presented
at the beginning of the film. In the first one, Freddie is shown
masturbating in front of a sand sculpture of a woman which he
perversely seems to use as a substitute for a love doll. In the second
one, Freddie is shown imbibing a certain fluid (most likely gasoline)
directly from the fuel tank of a Navy vessel. Freddie is dipsomaniac with a morbid liking for dangerous cocktail
drinks which he prepares by mixing alcohol with toxic substances like
paint thinner. After being fired from a couple of jobs because of his
irascible behavior, Freddie stows away on the private yacht of
Lancaster Dodd aka "The Master" (Philip Seymour Hoffman). Dodd is the
charismatic leader of a philosophical movement called "The Cause".
Freddie's life changes for ever after meeting Dodd. For the second time
in his life (after his stint in the US Navy), Quell sees a cause worth
fighting for. He begins to show a kind of jingoistic fervor for "The
Cause". Anyone who dares to oppose "The Master" and his preaching will
have to first deal with him. What follows is a hypnotic journey of
self-realization which will either consume Quell or will make him the
true master of his fate.The Master is a multifaceted work of cinema that can be enjoyed at so
many levels. The Master has a sense of randomness attached to it that
makes it a very difficult film to interpret. It may appear to have
several interweaved layers to one viewer, and yet appear completely
hollow to another혰depending purely on the viewer's understanding and
interpretation. The Master works well on both the technical and
emotional fronts혰another rarity for an American film. The movie's
cinematography, music and editing are all topnotch, and complement each
other really well.The acting is awe-inspiring to say the least and is quite easily one of
the strongest points of the movie. Also, there's enough room for
character development. While the relationship that Quell and Dodd share
is explicitly platonic in nature, an undercurrent of homosexual impulse
cannot be ruled out. Joaquin Phoenix is electrifying in the role of a
lifetime. He takes great pains in conjuring up his self-loathing,
verminous, reclusive alter ego as he himself gets lot in the role.
Philip Seymour Hoffman is outstanding in the role of Lancaster Dodd and
steals each and every scene he is a part of. Anderson elicits strong
performances from the supporting cast especially Amy Adams who is an
absolute treat to watch as Dodd's demanding wife, Peggy.Overall, The Master is an endlessly fascinating work of cinema that may
require multiple viewings to grasp its deeper meanings. The Master is
undoubtedly the best film to have come out of the English-speaking
world in the year 2012. It's a real shame that the Academy yet again
failed to identify a cinematic gem. The fact that the movie has not
been nominated in the Best Picture category only substantiates the
ineptness of the Academy in segregating topnotch cinema from the heaps
of mediocrity. The Master, like most of Anderson's movies, is not meant
for everyone. A casual viewer is ought to be disappointed, for he may
find it drab and utterly boring. But, The Master will most definitely
succeed in satisfying the deepest cravings of an intelligent viewer.
Highly recommended! 10/10
