9
A fast-paced ride filled with fascinating personalities

When everything in your life is looking rosy, there is always someone
who will tell you that your happiness is on shaky ground. Though most
of the time these nay-sayers will not profit from your misfortune, such
is not the case in The Big Short, Adam McKay's ("Anchorman 2: The
Legend Continues") hard-hitting comedy/drama about the collapse of the
housing market in 2008. Based on the book "The Big Short: Inside the
Doomsday Machine" (2010) by Michael Lewis with a screenplay by McKay
and Charles Randolph ("Love and Other Drugs"), the film centers on a
group of Wall Street functionaries who, despite the industry,
government, and media telling them otherwise, discover that the market
for bonds based on subprime mortgages is on shaky grounds and is doomed
to collapse.Supported by an outstanding ensemble cast that includes triple A-rated
performers like Brad Pitt ("By the Sea") Christian Bale ("Knight of
Cups"), Steve Carell ("Foxcatcher"), and Ryan Gosling ("Only God
Forgives"), McKay takes highly complex material and molds it into an
involving narrative that follows three sets of characters, each running
on parallel paths, all intent with cashing in on the system at the
expense of the average citizen. The film is narrated by Ryan Gosling
who explains at the beginning that our picture of bankers as stolid and
conservative citizens no longer fits the reality. They have gone, he
says, "from the country club to the strip club." Like Michael Burry
(Bale), they even go barefoot, sport a glass eye, listen to heavy metal
music and are not the least concerned with what passes for social
graces. Burry examines thousands of individual mortgages and realizes
that a large number of subprime housing mortgages are "junk" and will
collapse sooner rather than later. With no purpose in mind other than
to benefit financially from the expected bursting of the housing
bubble, Burry puts over a billion dollars of his company's money into
what are known as "credit default swaps," an agreement insuring the
buyer in the event of a loan default, in essence, betting against not
only the housing market but the American economy.These investments, disparaged by the banks, come to the attention of
Jared Vennett (Gosling), a subprime mortgage bond manager who goes into
business with hedge-fund manager Mark Baum (Carell). Baum, still
mourning the recent suicide of his brother is, in many ways, the film's
most interesting character - abrasive and bullying, yet honest with a
fine-tuned BS detector. The business also proves interesting to young
investors Charles Geller (John Magaro, "Carol") and Jamie Shipley (Finn
Wittrock, "The Submarine Kid"), who recruit the knowledgeable ex-banker
Ben Rickert (Pitt) to use his connections to help them work directly
with the banks.At one point, Baum's team investigate a housing subdivision in Florida
where they find out that many homes are in foreclosure, that mortgages
were bought using the name of the family dog, and a stripper owns five
homes with variable rate mortgages. Baum shudders when some young
brokers tell him how they have made millions by selling subprime
mortgages to the poor and to unsuspecting immigrants. To add more spice
to proceedings, McKay uses celebrities talking directly to the camera
in order to explain the complicated terminology used by bankers to make
sure the average person has no idea what's going on.Provocatively sitting in a bubble bath and drinking champagne, actress
Margot Robbie ("The Wolf of Wall Street") explains the ins-and-outs of
mortgage-backed securities, while TV food personality Anthony Bourdain
compares an unappetizing seafood stew with banks who market bad
mortgages as a triple-A rated financial product. There is also a clever
demonstration at a casino gambling table using actress Selena Gomez
("Behaving Badly") to show how Credit Default Obligations (CDOs), the
bundling of bad mortgages, can lead to layers and layers of
speculation. The three groups of characters cross paths at the American
Securities Forum in Las Vegas where it soon becomes evident that the
housing market is built on fraud and the banks are massively concealing
the worthlessness of their holdings.The Big Short is one of the best films of the year, a fast-paced ride
filled with fascinating personalities that entertains even when it
infuriates. The mood only turns dark when you realize that the stakes
are bigger than winning a game of Monopoly, bigger than who was right
and who was wrong. When the market collapses in 2008 sending the
economy into a tailspin, it is Rickert who points out to anyone left
who still cares that the consequences for real people are not the loss
of stocks but the loss of their homes, their livelihood, and, in some
cases, their lives. Not to worry, though, it's not personal, just
business.
