1
It will have you screaming from the trees

How, in this modern day, with such high standards of education and
courses on script writing and film making, can a big budget film like
this one be so bad? It was only because we watched in it Gold Class, in
comfortable seats and with food service, that we didn't walk out.After about fifteen minutes my partner leaned over to me and asked when
anything was going to happen (in the movie that is). I couldn't help
her.In fact my seat was so comfortable, and the movie so bad, that I fell
asleep three times.When my partner told me she thought this was the worst movie ever, and
that she was confused, I couldn't help her again - I'd been asleep.I did however witness the butterfly land on Jane's shoulder, then fly
off. What a beautiful CGI scene. Totally irrelevant to the plot or
story, and I'm still not sure why it was included.Then there was the scene when giant ostriches nearly trample Tarzan and
his mate. At last, I thought, something is going to happen. Tarzan's
mate asks Tarzan what did the Ostrich say. Tarzan replies something
like - "The Ostrich is telling you it can trample you." And then, the
Ostriches run off. That's the last we see of them. Confused? I was.The writers and director don't know whether Tarzan is Spider Man,
Batman or some other action hero - but he certainly isn't Tarzan.The poor old apes get a very bad rap here. They are huge, aggressive
monsters with razor sharp teeth.This movie is a showcase of when bad script writing, bad directing and
masses of CGI meet.I can only recommend this film to people watching it on late night TV,
when they need to be put to sleep.What would Tarzan say about this movie: AwwwwwwOaaaaaaaaWhaaaaaaOn a side note, it is interesting to see that people that rate this
movie high, usually have only one review in their list - this one. This
usually means that they have some connection to the film.(Edit 2 days later) I rest my case. After posting this review, 6
positive reviews have been posted after mine, all saying this is the
greatest movie ever, and 4 of the reviewers have only 1 review to their
name - this movie, and the other two reviewers have 2 reviews to their
name. With a ratio of 6 biased reviews to 1 honest review, no wonder it
is getting so hard to trust the IMDb rating system anymore.
