3
A poorly made sequel with only the dollar sign firmly in mind

Now look, I am going to say from the start, I like Liam Neeson, a good
solid actor, even if lately his roles seem to be that of the brooding
loner, perhaps very understandable considering recent personal
circumstances and its a role he plays very well, so no problem with
that. I loved the original movie, I saw it at the cinema, rented it,
own the DVD and have shown it to many people. Its a great film, slick,
fast, sets up its own universe rules as just the more realistic side of
a James Bond movie, and it doesn't break those rules or lapse into
total absurdity. Sure Neeson does impossible things but we get that and
go along for the ride.Here though, something went seriously wrong. The action relocated to
Istanbul could have been potentially very interesting and the basic
story, as shown in the trailers, so no spoilers here, is that the
family of the men he killed in the first film want their revenge. I
like this idea, that those seemingly meaningless extras whose job it
was to basically die in the first film, actually have friends and
relatives who care about them and want to see Neeson dead. In the world
that Taken has set up, this is all very plausible and I am sure seemed
a great idea on paper. So what happened? The script then becomes riddled with ideas that are beyond dumb, and
Istanbul is reduced to a minor backdrop and not used to its most
effective use and as can be seen from other reviews, Turkish people
found the film and its depiction a little offensive, I am not
surprised. Most of the film could have been set almost anywhere except
for a couple of wide shots. Characters do and say things that make no
logical sense at all and the rules of the Taken universe are constantly
broken. Yes we can suspend our disbelief to a point, but the film
reaches a level of absurdity where your just squealing in your seat
that this really is awful. Some of the acting from the supporting cast
isn't great either but maybe that's down to the very poor tools
(Script) they were given to work with. The action scenes are dumb and
seem devoid of the tension and abrupt impulse that came with the first
movie. Such a shame, because with a good script I would be quite happy
to watch this character in any number of scrapes and I do enjoy a well
written and well directed action flick with a good story, unfortunately
this had none of those elements. If you have to watch it, wait for the
DVD, even if there is an extended cut, I fail to see how it will
resolve any of the issues here. Wake up Hollywood, we really aren't
this dumb. So many Producers on one movie - ever heard of 'Too many
cooks?'
