6
questions

interesting and entertaining for me. have to admit that did not
understand certain things, however, I had no desire to watch it again
to find the answers.please see the movie first, as I doubt that comments would make
sense....1. I think there was no enough motivation to resort to violence. 2. also, if the characters found out that interfering with another
reality would destabilise the balance why would they carry on
interfering, why they think that it would solve the problem, besides
there is no real problem or threat, everything is based on theoretical
propositions. In other words, I did not see enough evidence or
necessity (even in their proposed theories) for them to think about
threat or violence. In the end one of the characters tries to knock/pass out herself from
another reality, which was at the initial phase, so I thought she
wanted to guide others not to interfere or give some clues but later
she resorts to even more violence, which does not make sense to me, as
they did not have any realistic theory, which would imply that somehow
the other selves from another realities would cause trouble. anyway how
hurting/harming themselves would solve the "problem", not demonstrated.3. probably most of us would freak out in these kind of conditions but
at least one of them should have been interested just to make a contact
with him/herself - non of them was holding a gun or knife and non of
them seemed a violent person, normal intelligent people, who I am sure
would have acted differently in reality as there was no immediate or
visible threat to their lives. 4. maybe there were all hallucinated by that drug, also I am sure there
are more clues in the film than I noticed, especially about that drug
near the end but as mentioned earlier could not watch second time.
furthermore, there was a strange call right at the end, which suggests
that it was not a hallucination.it is good that the story is open to interpretations but for me the
actions pursued by the characters require more motivation and reasoning
than shown in the movie....
