6
Will Satisfy In a Different Spot Than The First.

What had made Kick-Ass so special was its ability to sustain an
interesting story both for the audiences who are and who are not
willing to delve into the deeper aspects of what makes a film truly
shine. Kick-Ass 2, on the other hand, seemingly aimed only to satisfy
those who are not willing to dig. (But not entirely; I will get into
that later). Simply put, if you walk into movies to see action, blood,
and a whole lot of style, you will absolutely love Kick-Ass 2. However,
if you walk into movies to see interesting characters, a well paced
story, and a whole lot of substance, you will still admire Kick-Ass 2,
but forget about it very soon. While there are few aspects from the
deeper end of the spectrum residing within this film, that does not
mean that they do not stand out and impress. Hit-Girl was a blast to
watch in the first film. But unfortunately, her new-found sensitivities
in this film seem to do nothing but take away from what mattered the
most about her character in the first place in exchange for a few
scenes of unnecessary high-school drama for the sake of developing a
character in all the wrong spots. In spite of this, one character who
stood out in a great way was Colonel Stars and Stripes who, in his mere
seven and a half minutes of screen time, was an enormous bundle of
interesting. Sadly, behind this among few more redeeming qualities lies
the issues that many will have a hard time ignoring. The antagonist,
who is notoriously known as The Motherf%#$er, is someone I found to be
very bland and out-of-place in the Kick-Ass film universe created by
the first film. Among a handful of humorous scenes he shared with
Javier lies something we see every day in teenage comedies. Something
worth forgetting about. Overall, Kick-Ass 2 is a great film for reasons
that a lot of audiences do not find a film great for. However, if you
allow it to take you to the spot it would like you to be (Which is a
different mindset than what you had while watching the first) you
should be in for a nice ride.
