3
An outright disastrous start for any Universe

"The Mummy" is the first movie in what Universal Studios wants to call
their "Dark Universe." Yeah, that's right. Those re-shoots that 2014's
"Dracula Untold" went through to tie into a Dark Universe; those don't
matter now. That 2010 Benicio del Toro "Wolfman" movie; also doesn't
matter. In a world where Universes are becoming more and more of a thing,
Universal seems determined not to let this monster mash-up of The
Wolfman, Dracula, Frankenstein, Mummy, Dr. Jekyll and Mr Hyde and more
slip through their fingers. And they're also not skimping out on finding A-list talent to help sell
the whole thing. So far we've heard Johnny Depp, The Rock, and Javier
Bardem's names being thrown into the mix, plus Russell Crowe is already
here as Dr. Jekyll. That last one I think is really cool by the way because while so many
others have been portrayed by the likes of Gary Oldman and Jack
Nicholson's, Jekyll's best portrayal in the past 20+ years has been
ugh.David Hasselhoff. But now let's talk about "The Mummy", specifically that old trilogy
with Brendan Fraser. There's no doubt director Stephen Sommers lucked
out with that first film and there's also little doubt Universal wants
to move away from that overall cheesiness here. The question is can
they still go serious but also have fun at the same time?And say what you will about Sommers; the guy was a C-grade filmmaker
who got a kick out of a cheap thrill but at least you could say he
committed to it. This new Mummy is just a wrong-headed disaster. The set-up is pretty much the same as the older Mummy film although
here it's a woman played by "Kingsman's" Sofia Boutella. She's Ahmanet,
an Egyptian Princess who wanted power, sold out to some powerful entity
for eternal life, and paid for it by getting entombed.Universal of course is also putting it's faith in Tom Cruise, who plays
an Army Vet prone towards treasure hunting. He and several others find
Ahmanet's sarcophygus but while bringing it back to be examined, the
plane goes down over London and a bunch of strange things happen that
they learn can't just be coincidence. This is Cruise just being Cruise here. He gets to run around a lot
doing his "intense face" all while an attractive woman half his age is
along with him for the sexual interplay (more on her in a moment).
Yeah, there's discussion about his character growing something of a
conscience as this goes on but it's pretty perfunctory.Plus having the Mummy be a woman after Cruise's body so she could plant
her demon God inside of him and they can reign as King and Queen; this
seems more like it falls into being of one of Cruise's aging vanity
projects than on acting skill. Boutella gets very little to do otherwise but try and be seductive
while waving her hands in a threatening manner. Otherwise auto-tune
does the rest. The Cruise character's love interest is an archaeologist played by
Annabelle Wallis who looks like she just stepped out from a Paris
fashion show into an archaeological dig. Did I believe her as an
archaeologist? No. Did I believe she could spell it? Sure. Either way,
it doesn't matter. What does is that she and Cruise are DOA in their
scenes together. No character makes much impression here, including Crowe's Dr. Jekyll
who's maybe in the film for 20 minutes to explain stuff so simplistic,
silly, and predictable that it hardly needs explaining at all before
the film rushes through his particular ailment. For some reason screenwriters David Koepp and Christopher McQuarrie
think more explanation is still warranted though and in that they
couldn't be more wrong. For something trying to feel new, it's
remarkably easy to tell where all this is going. Their biggest crime is what they do to New Girl's Jake Johnson, a funny
actor who they turn into the Dark Universe's version of Jar Jar Binks
in only five minutes. He comes in and out of the film at really odd
intervals, either screaming dialogue in the hope of making it funny or
giving us yet more exposition we don't really need. Add to that first time action director Alex Kurtzman is a disaster. The
action sequences look haphazardly thrown together, just cartoonish and
unbelievable, while a spoiler I won't give away about the Tom Cruise
character makes them even harder to give a crap about anyway. The fights are stiff and uninteresting, and the special effects are
either forgettable or look just as hokey as they did in the Brendan
Fraser movies. The plane sequence we saw in the trailer looks pretty
decent but hey, you've already seen the most decent thing in the movie,
why pay to see the rest. Overall this is not just a bad film, but a film that has no idea what
it even is. It wants to resurrect classic monsters, but isn't the least
bit scary. It wants to take it in original directions, but winds up
being an ultra-serious, dull version of the 1999 film. It's silly but
not funny, it's a lot of commotion but no excitement, it's a Mummy
movie that if the ending of this can even be believed, thinks it's
something totally different. This is a worse start to a Universe than
King Arthur was. If you liked this, check out more of Craig James Review on Youtube
