6
A very Mixed Bag

Pros: - Epic scope: This is without a doubt the biggest zombie movie ever
made. The exact budget of the film is unknown, but due to its prolonged
and troubled production some have estimated the movie cost as much as
250 million dollars to make. And the film-makers really make sure
you're aware of how expensive the movie would've been to make, with a
number of staggering shots featuring thousands and thousands of zombies
swarming all over each other. The movie earns its title, given the fact
that it is truly a zombie movie on a global scale. - Brad Pitt: He's very good in this movie, and is definitely one of the
best things about the film. He makes for a compelling and likable hero
who has to rely more on his intelligence than physical power. He's no
superhero in this film, and his vulnerability and "everyday-man" nature
keeps him relatable and likable.- Action scenes: As mentioned before, there's a ton of zombies in this
movie. And yes, a lot of them are CGI, which I personally don't have a
problem with because there were so many it's unlikely they could've
done a lot of these scenes with actual extras portraying the zombies.
The hordes of zombies allow for some truly spectacular action scenes on
a large scale, all of which I'd rather not talk about in too much
detail, because the zombie/action scenes are really the best part of
the film, so it's definitely best not to ruin the scenes by giving you
too much of an idea of what to expect- Use of the word "zombie": This didn't necessarily make the film
better, but it was just interesting to see the word "zombie" used
frequently by the film's characters. The word "zombie" has been treated
for so long as a clichéd term in zombie films that it's now kind of
refreshing to see it used so honestly and openly in a serious zombie
film. Cons: - Lack of gore: Now don't get me wrong, I don't need blood and guts in
every single movie I watch. But with zombie films, gory violence is a
necessity. You need to see zombies getting ripped apart to emphasise
how they are literally the "living dead," and you need to see humans
die graphic deaths to reinforce how much of a threat the zombies can
be. But this film wants to appeal to pretty much anyone aged 10 and up
so Brad Pitt and friends can get more money, so of course we get very
little blood, plus no on-screen guts, severed limbs, or exploding
heads. - Shaky cam: This kind of ties in with the lack of gore; it's like the
cameraman is shying away from the more graphic moments (it's The Hunger
Games all over again). The shaky cam's only really noticeable in the
film's first half hour though, while the zombie outbreak is just
beginning, so it's not a huge problem. Still a little bothersome
though.- Unfulfilling ending: This movie does end in an abrupt fashion, and
kind of left me wanting more. It ends very suddenly, and I kind of
thought to myself- "really? That's it?" The biggest action scene in the
movie occurs about halfway through the film, and the final zombie
confrontation was fairly quiet and low-key, which just felt a bit off
to me. That being said, the jarringly sudden ending could be seen as a
good thing, as it demonstrated that the movie went by fairly quickly.
It's just under two hours long, but the final scene honestly felt as
though the film was at about the 80-minute mark. But still, the ending
was a little unsatisfying, so I ultimately see the ending as a con.- Unintentionally funny zombies: Zombies can be funny, and zombie
movies can be part-comedy and still be great zombie movies. Shaun of
the Dead and ZombieLand are both very funny movies that also manage to
be pretty good legitimate zombie films (they don't exclusively poke fun
at the zombie genre). George A. Romero worked some great satire into
1978′s Dawn of the Dead, by comparing the zombies in the film's mall to
the mindless, braindead consumers who inhabited the mall pre-zombie
apocalypse. World War Z didn't feel like it was meant to have much
comedy in it with its serious tone and gritty aesthetic, yet at times I
found myself laughing at the way the film's zombies expressed
exaggerated twitchy movements, and the manner in which more than a few
of them chattered their teeth repeatedly in a cartoonish manner.- Slight lack of tension: The movie lacks some much needed suspense
because it's basically Brad Pitt saving the world himself. Maybe if
Pitt's character had a few allies forming like a "rag-tag squad" or
something, and they went around battling zombies as a group, it
would've made things more intense and involving, as a few of them would
inevitably die along the way. I don't know, a few more well-developed
side characters would've gone quite a long way in making me more
invested in the film's events.So there's my thoughts on this film. It's a mixed bag, but ultimately
I'd recommend it. It's worth seeing at the cinema just for those
spectacular action scenes, and simply so you can see the sheer scale of
the biggest budgeted zombie film of all time. It's flawed as hell
though, so go in with moderate expectations. It could be a whole lot
better, but ultimately the film's still pretty decent, and a good one
to experience on the big screen. It's certainly a fine summer
blockbuster, but it's unlikely that the film will ever achieve a
"classic status."
