7
A fun and enjoyable adventure that deserves more love

'Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse" is a zombie horror/comedy that
well, pits a group of scouts against a zombie apocalypse.... pretty
self explanatory. The title alone should give you a really good idea
about the type of film you are going to get, a very campy zombie comedy
that isn't fussed with what people would really do. For me, i really
wasn't expecting much at all from this film, the trailer looked OK and
i was expecting to book in an average horror comedy, but i really
enjoyed this movie. Was it incredibly original? No, it follows a lot of
the usual beats that you tend to find in these zombie apocalypse
comedies. So where it can't perform in original storytelling it has to
excel in the comedy and horror elements, and i thought it did a good
job at that consistently after the 30 minute mark. There were some
kinda funny moments, some really funny moments and a few horror
elements thrown in there. Overall it was actually a really fun time. I will start with the first 30 minutes of the film which wasn't that
good at all. It spent the opening 30 minutes introducing a tonne of
characters and hinting at many things that would come into play later
on whilst also just teasing the presence of zombies in a few scenes. It
was really starting to drag on as nothing of interest was happening
except for a few small laughs here and there. The biggest thing that
got me through this opening was the characters and also the
performances behind them. I really liked the chemistry that the trio of
scouts had, it made for some really funny and entertaining moments and
made you care about them. Even the secondary characters and their
interactions with the scout trio were pretty fun to watch. But this
opening was just all over the place and oddly paced and should have
been condensed down to 20 minutes to get straight to the point of the
film quickly. But once the zombie apocalypse rather abruptly arrives,
the fun begins. From the moment you find out the zombie apocalypse has really begun,
the silliness of the film takes over and i loved every minute of it.
This film clearly doesn't take anything seriously and that was the best
part. The way they react to the zombies and choose to deal with them
throughout the film makes for some really really funny moments. There
was one moment in the film, without spoiling anything major where a
zombie joins in to a Britney Spears musical number and i completely
lost it. It was hilarious, and although it was only short i wanted it
to keep going, it came out of nowhere and was probably my favourite
part of the film. Also just the distinct personalities of these
characters play off each other really well and as a result you also get
some surprisingly interesting character development throughout. Who
thought i would be praising character development in a silly zombie
comedy. In terms of the horror, it wasn't scary at any point because of the
overall tone of the film being very silly, but there were a couple of
tense zombie moments broken up by some more campy humour. But even
though there wasn't any horror, the fact that the film uses practical
effects for what i thought was like 98% of the film was not only really
impressive for how good it looked but it also made everything better to
watch. The fact that you see these zombies getting smashed up and it is
all using practical effects with blood splatters made it really gory
and it looked real and disgusting as oppose to a bunch of CGI crap. In the end, this was a really fun, enjoyable movie after the first 30
minutes with plenty of humour to go around. The use of makeup, puppets
and other practical effects helped to make the film more gory and
realistically exaggerated violent. If you are a fan of zombie
horror/comedies such as Zombieland it is definitely a good watch. - 6.8
