10
It is about compassion, trust, and wisdom

Chiron, in Barry Jenkins' Oscar-winning film "Moonlight," in addition
to being gay and black, has to deal with drug abuse, bullying, and the
lack of a supportive home environment. In contrast, in Luca
Guadagnino's ("A Bigger Splash") achingly beautiful Call Me by Your
Name, 17-year-old Elio's (Timothée Chalamet, "Love the Coopers") life
is safe, comfortable, and surrounded by love though, like Chiron, he
must come to terms with his true identity. Written by three-time Oscar
nominee James Ivory and adapted from the 2007 novel by Andre Aciman,
Call Me by Your Name is set in the summer of 1983 where Oliver (Armie
Hammer, "Free Fire") is an American research assistant studying with
art history Professor Perlman (Michael Stuhlbarg, "Steve Jobs") at
Perlman's gorgeous villa in Northern Italy.Oliver arrives at this idyllic setting with its gardens, peach trees,
and lakes to greet the professor, his wife Annella (Amira Casar,
"Planetarium") a lover of German poetry, and his teenage son Elio who
speaks several languages and transcribes piano scores for the guitar.
Shot by Thai cinematographer Sayombhu Mukdeeprom ("Uncle Boonmee Who
Can Recall His Past Lives") and buoyed by new songs from Sufjan
Stevens, it is easy to feel yourself present in the languid summer
afternoon, as Aciman expresses it, "with the scent of rosemary, the
heat, the birds, the cicadas, the sway of palm fronds, the silence that
falls like a light linen shawl on an appallingly sunny day." With Oliver's arrival, Elio now has to shift his focus from pursuing
his French girlfriend Marzia (Esther Garrel, "Daydreams") to show the
American student around town and give him bike tours of the area. Soon,
however, he becomes annoyed by the American's brusque manner and his
abrupt "later" whenever he's leaving. When Elio, who is Jewish, sees
Oliver wearing a Star of David on a chain around his neck, however, he
finds a common bond, jokingly telling him that his mother considers
their family to be "Jews in discretion." Sharing the same bathroom,
their friendship begins to expand when they engage in conversation and
go swimming together. Although Oliver gives Elio a neck massage during
a volley ball game, the boy seems unable or unwilling to process the
feelings that it brings up in him.When Oliver causally tells Elio that he seems to know everything, the
teenager confesses that he knows everything except "what really
matters." Even when physical intimacy is established, there is the
sense that they hold back from fully expressing their feelings and even
prefer not to talk about them. Chalamet, in his first leading role, is
a revelation, delivering a deeply affecting performance that shows
great promise. Hammer's performance is restrained, but also fully
believable, making sure that the age difference does not get in the way
of the honest and genuine relationship they have established. As they
strengthen their friendship, like lovers, their identities blend into
each other and they express it verbally by taking each other's name.
Call Me by Your Name is not an "us versus them" movie. There are no
antagonists in the film. It is a celebration of love in all its wonder
and mystery.There is gay sex in the movie but, like "Moonlight," it is about more
than sex. As Guadagnino says, "it is about compassion, trust, and
wisdom." All three of these values are expressed in the conversation
between Elio and his dad, an interchange that is moving and wise.
Though the film is "gay-themed," Guadagnino does not pigeonhole the
characters into familiar categories and his refusal to deal in
stereotypes or manufactured emotion gives the film the space to breathe
and reach the place where tension can grow. Like "Moonlight," Call Me
by Your Name has a universal appeal and can touch anyone who has ever
felt the confused and conflicting longings of first love, or who knows
from experience that, in the words of the song "Plaisir d'amour," "The
joy of love is but a moment long. The pain of love endures the whole
life long."
