7
Limited Greatness

Jack Reacher is based on Lee Child's book "One Shot". For those who've
read it, you already know Tom Cruise isn't right for the role. One
would wish they could've gotten a bigger and taller actor to play the
role like Hugh Jackman, or Chris Evans, or someone else. It could have
been a new iconic appearance for a hero. The real problem is it seems
Tom Cruise is just redoing his generic action hero performance. As much
as he refuses to call himself a hero, he still looks like one but in a
much glossier way. In spite of that, the film itself is a snazzy piece
of entertainment that is rare in cinema these days. A neo-noir styled
action blockbuster that will grip you by its storytelling and its
action scenes. There's a chance that could have made this a much better
film but put aside those complains, it's still pretty awesome.The film begins with a man shooting five random innocent people. It
effectively builds tension by being silent. The rest of the movie is as
slick as the opening and it serves a great entertainment. The only
disappointment is Tom Cruise. He may not have the appearance of the
character but he could have done a lot more than just doing his typical
action hero swagger. He sure has charisma but that's all. His fans
might still think he's pretty cool for it. I'm not a fan of comparing a
book to its film adaptation. I never cared if a single plot point or
character was changed, but the Jack Reacher character is the real deal
here. It seems this film is only made for Cruise to get him back in
action. Well this character is not for him.The film is still solidly made. At least it doesn't go to the modern
generic action movie direction that is relentlessly loud but sticks to
the neo-noir storytelling. The best parts is when it spends time in
scrutinizing the case in silence. When the film starts talking, the
dialogue is witty and interests the story's investigation. It gets
exciting when it goes to the action. The action scenes are well shot.
The hand-to-hand combat fight scenes reminiscence the cool eighties
action with some humorous camp. The car chase is the most impressive
sequence where it shows several angles as they drive away without
shaking the camera. It has the potential of a classic throwback.Jack Reacher is quite entertaining but again they should have gotten
the right actor to play the lead. Jack Reacher here is nothing more
than another Tom Cruise character with a leather jacket and do what
this old man usually do. The only good thing is it's not bad. It's a
decent kind of action thriller that isn't famous in mainstream cinema
anymore, but yet is enjoyable. It's not entirely an action film though,
but people might think it is. It leaves having a smart mystery in spite
of fact it lacks the anti-hero. It's fun and worth watching but there
are things that could have made this a lot more interesting.
