5
Completely Unnecessary Reboot.

John Connor sends Kyle Reese back in time to protect Sarah Connor, but
when he arrives back in 1984, nothing is as he expected it to be.The original Terminator's horror aspects and Terminator 2: Judgement
Day's big blockbuster feel make them two very important films in
redefining the action genre and T2 was the film to showcase to us what
brilliance can be done using special effects. The other entries in the
series never really felt necessary and they never equaled the
perfection of the first two.Terminator Genisys has its positives, in the first 20 minutes we our
given a broader view of the apocalyptic 2029 and the resistance's
struggle against the machines and I enjoyed that. Also Matt Smith's
character reveal is great and although he has only got a few scenes he
is perfect for his role. Older Arnold Schwarzenegger has still got it
and he is great in his classic role with a slight twist.However, when Kyle Reese is sent back in time the movie falls apart and
becomes a convoluted mess that simply does not work as its own story.
One of the biggest problems I had with Terminator Genisys was that it
never really tried to tell its own story it only exists off the success
of the first two films, the continuous nods to T1 and 2 become
extremely annoying and unwarranted. It lacks direction and every action
sequence has been done to death at this stage. Jai Courtney lacks the gritty edge or charisma that Michael biehn had
in the role of "Kyle Rice". Emilia Clarke is badly miscast in the role
of "Sarah Connor" and she try's her best Linda Hamilton impression but
lacks the strength and venerability Hamilton brought to the role. The
romance between "Kyle Reese" and "Sarah Connor" just doesn't work,
mainly because there is a lack of chemistry between the leads. J.K
Simmons is wasted as a forgettable side character. The dialogue is poorly written and Jason Clarke's "John Connor" falls
victim to this, even though he has some good scenes, the film also
fails to resolve many story arcs possibly as a hope to spark viewers
interests for future films. Honestly, this film should never have happened and it relies far to
heavily on the first two James Cameron films. It is not a terrible film
but it is a mediocre one and audiences have got to expect more.
Originality is loosing out to this sort of meaningless, unnecessary
reboot.Overall, Terminator Genisys turns into yet another forgettable reboot
that offers nothing new and I am going to give it a 5/10.
