1
A Masterpiece (of Emotionless Boredom And Nolan Trickery)

Crow the critics are about Nolan's latest, "Dunkirk." A stunning
masterpiece say many. Masterpiece my ass.Snookered by the hype and war film fandom, ducats were placed on
counter, a ticket for admission passed back. Lights dimmed,
anticipation mounted, and... nothing. Nothing. Save lurching between
disparate, battle set pieces featuring people for whom little or no
empathy exists. Lacking investment in the characters, what remains are
merely adequate, bloodless war scenes easily outgunned by the recent
"Fury" and, farther back, "Saving Private Ryan." For example, a young
boy is killed but we know nothing of him, nothing of his motivation for
climbing aboard a civilian, Dunkirk-bound boat at the last minute. We
feel nothing for him because he's simply a cardboard cutout.As the actors barely register emotion, boredom set in and not to be
shaken off. The characters move as wind-up toys. There are few actors
who bare their soul like Cillian Murphy, here a shell-shocked survivor.
As directed, he sleepwalks with the depth of an amateur in a high
school production. He's not alone. All the actors turn in measured
performances with identical blank looks and monotone deliveries.
Particularly wasted is the actor's actor, Kenneth Branagh.Certainly the bravery and sacrifice of civilian and military in the
Dunkirk evacuation is celebrated in "Dunkirk." Thank you. However, this
historical action occurred in 1940. Films echo the zeitgeist of the
time in which they're produced. It's an odd choice to make a large
(bad) film about an evacuation three-quarters of a century past.
There's a stink of political agenda afoot in "Dunkirk" that's
intolerable. The enemy, unseen in "Dunkirk," lurks and kills from
safety by air and ground. Surrounded with backs to the the Atlantic,
the very survival of a way of life is in question, as portrayed in
"Dunkirk." (Spoiler Alert: The Allies Won The War.) The enemy's attacks
are isolated like terrorism. The result is "Dunkirk" weaves a
cautionary allegory mirroring religious extremism bent on destroying
all non-believers.Subtle propaganda is dangerous. "Dunkirk" fits that bill. Either that
or Nolan is a complete idiot who hasn't a whit of sense. It's a toss-up
based on a filmography including the lackluster borefest
"Interstellar," and the beyond inane "Inception." Nolan remains static in his career with "Dunkirk." His films are
half-baked, underwritten, detached, and emotion-free. "Dunkirk" plays
like a rough cut by a bad director who expects the viewer to
emotionally fill-in-the-blanks. "Dunkirk" even lacks the courage of its
convictions in being bloodless - there are no graphic deaths. At least
Spielberg had the courage to rub the viewer's nose in the stench of
death in "Saving Private Ryan." The first half hour of that film is
unprecedented in the depiction of carnage (one can almost taste the
grit of raining sand from nearby mortar strikes). Nolan
sanitizes-for-your-own-protection. Yet he chose a violent topic and
punked out; a war movie detached from death is not a film about war. By
design, war cannot include gratuitous violence, just insanity - an
element also lacking in "Dunkirk."The wall-to-wall dramatic, but mixed low, score loses its effectiveness
and becomes annoying. And, the constant, ham-handed crosscutting
between stories further waters this already thin soup by stopping a
scene's dramatic momentum.A short scene in "Mrs. Miniver" (1942) featuring civilian Walter
Pidgeon returning from Dunkirk in his shot up runabout says more in the
visuals and a few lines of dialogue about the evacuation than the
entirety of "Dunkirk." As Trump might Tweet, "Sad!"
