6
Not As Bad As You Hear But More "Inpired By" VS "Based On"

Adapting Stephen King stories for the screen has long been a difficult
problem for Hollywood. For every "Misery" and "The Shawshank
Redemption", there are many others such as "The Mangler", "Cell", "and
Graveyard Shift" and many more where things did not go as planned. The
big issue is that King often creates detailed characters with complex
backstories and puts then in fully developed worlds that despite their
supernatural nature, often are easy for readers to relate to.Also as any reader of his books knows, King is not one to spare the
paper and his books can be very lengthy offerings. This is an issue for
Hollywood as they are forced to condense a 400-800 page plus story in
many cases to fewer than two hours of screen time. The solution has
been to try television movies such as "The Langoliers", "The
Tommyknockers", "The Stand", and "It". The problem with this format is
that while spreading the story over multiple nights allows more time
for the story, they gore and adult content which is often the core of
the story has to be greatly watered down.Which brings us to "The Dark Tower", an adaptation of King's largest
offering as the series covers seven books and a novella, not to mention
a Prequel comic and more. The series rolled out from 1982-2004 with
King often saying that he might never finish the series. Fortunately
for fans he released three books from 2003-2004 and was able to declare
the story told.The story tells of a world like ours, but different that has "moved
on". It is a dying world where Roland (Idris Elba), is pursuing a
wizard named Walter (Matthew McConaughey), who is responsible for
laying waste the world and killing all that come into Roland's life.
The books follow his unrelenting chase of The Man in Black over
countless years and how he has become a cold and driven individual who
thinks nothing of using people to get his revenge.Roland is the last of the "Gunslingers", a Knight like group who
protected the world and who used guns that were rare in their world to
keep the peace. Roland is highly skilled and unlike his now dead
companions, is impervious to the magic of Walter which has allowed him
to remain alive and continue his quest.The Man in Black is fixated on destroying the Dark Tower, which
protects the many worlds in the universe from the outside evils that
look to destroy it. Along with a young boy from Earth named Jake (Tom
Taylor), Roland must find a way to save the universe and exact his
revenge.The film keeps the conflict between Roland and The Man in Black but
greatly condenses the story as it includes references to things in the
first two books but omits much of the backstory and plot of the novels
to tell what I would call a story that was inspired by, but not based
on the books.This is at the core the biggest issue with the film. I have read the
books and while I wanted an adaptation that was closer to them, I did
find myself enjoying the film more than I expected to. The leads were
very good and even though they had a very watered down script to work
with, they did a good job and the finale does have some nice visuals
and action to it.People I know who have read the books have naturally been very
disappointed with the film but those who have not read the books have
mentioned that they enjoyed the film and accepted it as a fun bit of
escapist adventure.There has been talk of a television series that would focus more on the
third book onward which hopefully would include how Roland gained new
followers from our world who were trained to be future Gunslingers.
That remains to be seen as the success of the film will likely hold the
key. I hope we do get to see it as there are countless stories and
characters yet to tell in this universe and I think fans deserve to see
them as King wrote them.3 stars out of 5
