10
Wow.

A Little History - I have a wide range of actors that I love. Most of
the time, I like to backtrack through a couple of their previous films
when I like them a lot, and then I just get on with it. Not the case
here. I decided to start watching Hannibal about 6 months after it
aired and I got my first good look at a spectacular Danish actor named
Mads Mikkelsen. He is extremely talented but, judging by the fact that
I love horror films, have seen Silence Of The Lambs numerous times, and
figured the television show could never match the talents of the
wonderful Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster, I wrote it off. Until about
three episodes in when this God of Danish cinema showed off his
talents. After the show, and because I adore foreign cinema, I decided
to binge on every single one of his movies. That my friends, is how I
came across The Hunt.The Basics - So after giving you the background of what I've been doing
for the past couple of months, this is the first of many Mads movies I
chose. I have some background with Danish cinema and am an avid Von
Trier fan so I know Danish films have amazing potential. The movie
stars M.M. as a single father named Lucas who leads a lonely life
teaching primary school and striving for custody of his son. He has a
likable group of friends including his best friend Theo, who has a wife
and child Lucas is close with as well. Everything is going smooth until
one day, a small lie changes the course of Lucas's life.It Would Probably Be Better - For you to go in blind as I did...just
beware, this is a tough number to swallow. It is unrelenting and
uncomfortable, however, don't let that scare you away...you should see
it, everyone should see it.Mad For Mads - My God is he exquisite in his craft...he practically
carries the entire film and does so with a passion not many actors
have. This film bumped him into my 'favorites' for sure. You can just
feel every thought, every ounce of pain and turmoil he is going
through...it's harrowing and heartbreaking and I was crying at the end.Best Scenes - 1. The scene in the convenience store is amazing. You are
rooting for Lucas the entire time. 2. The scene when you realize that
though everyone is against him...he still has a couple of people on his
side. 3. The scene in the church (which if you've seen the trailer, you
get a small glimpse of) took my breath away and had me wiping tears.Overall - This movie is a tough watch, but rewarding nonetheless due to
its well told story and outstanding acting. It was the first of many
Mads movies I've played - also the first of many that had me crying -
and a firm step back into the world of heart wrenching Danish cinema. I
strongly recommend the watch.Verdict - 10/10 Stars. You can view all of my reviews at
http://dianalynn5287.blogspot.com/
