8
Kingsman: The Golden Circle is a Good Spy Flick That Falters in Comparison to the Original

Kingsman: The Golden Circle brings back all your favourite characters
from the original and brings many fresh new characters to the
forefront. I must give the movie some credit here, the idea of the
Statesmen could have been really hokey but as the movie goes on, you
become more interested in the Statesmen agency and the major players
within it. They give some added dimension to some unexpected returnees
from the first entry (although the subject matter of their relationship
was a little iffy, I was pleasantly surprised they brought back
Princess Tilde in such a large role) and Eggsy hasn't changed too much
from where it counts. There's one glaring exception to my praise
though, they bring back one of the biggest and best characters from the
original and I think they really fumbled the ball. It was so
disappointing to the point where I almost regretted his inclusion in
this sequel.With a good chunk of this movie taking place in the U.S.A and the
jungle, they also introduce some engaging set-pieces and locations. I
didn't get the reasoning behind Poppyland completely but it looked cool
and added something distinctive. The Statesmen headquarters was a
little hit or miss but it was also better than expected. Most of the
CGI and visual effects in the movie are largely well done and they help
sell some of the more outlandish bits.The best part of this movie is that the excellent action scenes from
The Secret Service carry over. There's nothing to match the church/Free
Bird set piece (which despite controversial subject matter is one of
the best action scenes I've ever seen) but there are many smaller
scenes that carry that same flavour. They don't waste any time dropping
you into it either, 5 minutes into the movie and you're getting a neat
car chase/fight sequence. So, while I can't say it topped The Secret
Service, they continue their great action work with very little decline
in quality.Taron Egerton came out of nowhere to capably carry the Kingsman
franchise. Another positive thing I can say is that this follow up
shows that his leading man chops from the first one wasn't a fluke. He
is this character and he's earned the right to continue playing it.
Mark Strong returns as Merlin, he was an underrated part of the first
one and he's solid again here. It was nice to see Edward Holcroft again
as Charlie but I was disappointed that Sophie Cookson had such a small
roll. Channing Tatum slips into his character Tequila nicely but the
movie didn't advertise his role properly. The surprise MVP is Pedro
Pascal as Whiskey. He nails his part and he steals almost every scene
he's in. They didn't give Halle Berry or Jeff Bridges much to do as
Ginger Ale and Champagne respectively. I think Julianne Moore was an
inspired choice as Poppy and she does a good job but she's let down by
how her character is written. She's just not given as much to work with
as Samuel L. Jackson was. To avoid spoilers, I'm not going to touch on
the surprise return of a certain character or the big celebrity cameo.The most common complaint I've heard from fans of the first movie is
that this movie is just a retread of the original. You can see
parallels but I wouldn't agree with that assessment. I think this movie
suffers from the next problem most sequels face. They feel the need to
go bigger, to outdo themselves and to ratchet up almost every facet.
There were plenty of good ideas and aspects worth praising in The
Golden Circle but the movie also felt needlessly goofy. Eggsy was a
semi-realistic character in the first one, he was a good kid in a tough
neighbourhood that was in an even tougher situation. His rags-to-riches
story was very heartfelt and it kept the movie grounded. He's turned
into James Bond in this and his problems (minus The Kingsman Agency
blowing up) seem much more conventional and less threatening. The rules
and lore surrounding the Statesmen aren't well defined and they're
importance/effectiveness seems to wildly fluctuate. Poppy isn't more
over-the-top than Valentine but she seems to be way too playful and
it's hard to take her seriously. The movie wants to say something about
the war on drugs but the message feels vague and at the same time very
heavy handed. These are just a few examples of the inconsistent nature
of the movie and while there's the requisite action and comedy, this
one leans into the absurd humour to the point where it detracts from
itself.I unabashedly love Kingsman: The Secret Service. I thought it was so
special the first time I saw it and it has gotten better upon repeated
viewings. It payed homage to the classic spy movies but delivered an
unconventional and fresh viewing experience. I would rank it among the
best movies I've seen not only in 2014 but of this decade. But I was
willing to spot this movie as many points as I could, I wanted this to
be the next great entry in this franchise. Critics have been harsh on
The Golden Circle but if you enjoy the first Kingsman, a lot of the
successful elements in that movie are brought back. You still have the
thrilling action and although I didn't like choices they made with the
characters, the creative team introduces plenty of new things and they
expand upon the world. The Golden Circle is absolutely worth seeing and
I think most people will get a kick out of it. I just couldn't help
leaving the theatre a little disappointed, Secret Service was so
awe-inspiring for me in many ways and this won't have the same staying
power. I would give this a 7.5/10 rounding up to an 8/10.
