7
Washington Carries this Film

Imagine real-life hero pilot "Sulley" Sullenberger with a severe drug 

and alcohol problem and doing a few lines prior to taking controls in 

the cockpit, yet still managing to land his packed airplane with 

absolute precision on the Hudson River. Would he still be a hero? 

That's the dilemma of the new film, "Flight," which just hit theaters 

this week.



This is a difficult movie to sit through. Yet it's tough to decide 

which is more gut-wrenching -- watching a doomed airliner packed full 

of passengers buckled down in a nosedive headed for near-certain death, 

or the central character played by Denzel Washington, whose personal 

life is just as out of control.



While Washington's character nicknamed "Whip" manages to miraculously 

maneuver the aircraft towards a crash landing that undoubtedly saves 

lives, the captain comes under increasing scrutiny once the post-crash 

investigation begins. Conducted by the National Transportation Safety 

Board (NTSB), the investigation begins to reveal some troubling 

revelations about Whip and his conduct. Every second of the pilot and 

crew's lives are scrutinized, which uncovers some ugly secrets about 

how Whip spends most of his free time. Most of the time his best 

friends are named Jim Beam and Jack Daniels, with a few lines of 

cocaine to add a little spice.



The hero-addict dichotomy is a marvelous dramatic device which helps to 

sustain a longer-than-average 2.5 hour movie. The audience faces a real 

conflict here. We don't know whether to cheer for Whip to beat the rap 

and move on with his life (after all, he heroically saved lives), or be 

exposed as the fraud he is so the healing and recovery process can 

begin.



Indeed, this film is not so much about the plane crash and aftermath as 

it is about addiction and realizing that one has a serious problem. 

While the crash scene is one of the most intense such moments ever 

recreated on film, the film's highest moments of drama actually occurs 

in hotel rooms and in front of refrigerators when Whip faces his 

toughest choice -- whether to drink or not. Most of the time, the 

bottle wins the war of the inner spirit, just as it tragically so often 

does with real life alcoholics.



If there's any doubt about Denzel Washington being one of the finest 

actors of our generation, this should finally settle the issue. His is 

a resume filled with high moments -- his Academy Award winning 

over-the-top portrayal of a corrupt cop in "Training Day" perhaps being 

his best work. But this performance is every bit as strong for entirely 

different reasons. Washington shows great range in this film, 

flip-flopping between the boozing jet-setting playboy (played to 

perfection) and the sad and lonely loser that deep inside he know he 

has become.



It's Washington when he's most vulnerable that carries this film. Just 

the right expression at the right time, a teardrop in a rare moment 

when he lets his guard down, or displaying a phony facade of going 

through the motions while being stoned and high on the inside -- these 

are the virtues that only a few actors working today could so 

successfully give to an audience. No doubt, Washington's role here will 

be remembered when Best Actor nominations come out for this year's 

Oscars.



Robert Zemickis' direction is also near-perfect. This is often a dark 

and depressing movie, a sort of "Leaving Las Vegas" with an airline 

pilot in the central sympathetic role. Yet we never get too low, even 

watching a man hellbent on self-destruction. Zemickis, perhaps best 

known for his direction of "Forrest Gump," handles the material with 

great care, managing an excellent supporting cast -- led by two superb 

roles by Bruce Greenwood and Don Cheadle -- who serve to change the 

mood just when the film seems to become too dark.



There are some scenes and story lines that I found unnecessary. Whip 

finds a romantic interest along the way, a fellow addict. I had a hard 

time buying the notion that a 20-year career airline pilot would find 

much in common with a very plain-looking heroin addict one step up from 

doing back alley tricks as someone to find comfort with . The girl 

simply lacks any appeal. To her credit, at least she's headed in the 

right direction in her recovery while Whip guzzles one beer after 

another. But I found her not only to be implausible partner but totally 

unnecessary to the story -- adding at least 30 minutes to a film that 

probably should have capped out at two hours.



The film builds to a fulfilling climax that won't be revealed here. 

Some ends are tied up nicely, while others remain frayed. Which is all 

fine -- that's how real life works.



In short, this is good film made much better by the wide range of 

talent displayed by one of Hollywood's finest actors. Denzel 

Washington's performance alone is reason enough to see the film.




