8
What was done, was done well.

The world of William Shakespeare can be a tricky road to navigate,
especially if you are not educated in his tediously difficult language
that arrogantly lies in waiting, sprawled across the pages of his many
plays. If you are neither a Thespian or English Literature Graduate
(which I am clearly not), you will struggle to understand the famous
playwrights narrative. It just might be easier to learn French or
German at the local community college than it is to painfully study
what Shakespeare is actually trying to say. I have seen just a handful
of the Elizabethan era writers work; the tragic love story of Romeo and
Juliet, Julius Caesar and the very puzzling comedy, A Midsummer Night's
Dream. Each time I came away scratching my head, my feeble brain trying
its best to piece together the events that had actually taken place.
Through all the confusion, I still found myself enjoying the fragments
of dialogue and story that made sense to me. This is why I was drawn to
another of Shakespeare's great tragedies, even though I knew I would be
sitting through nearly two hours of theatre without the use of
subtitles.Macbeth is a well known story of ambition, murder, rage and tyranny but
what I was looking for in Justin Kurzel's interpretation was a
connection that an uneducated sloth like myself could get from a tale
that had four hundred years of retelling. I wanted to feel the
characters emotions and I wanted to visualise their world. I wanted to
be able to identify Macbeth's tragic blind ambition and lust for power.
More importantly, I wanted a tangible belief in the story being
presented to me.Kurzel knows his audience well because he has directed one of the
greatest Shakespearean plays ever put onto film. The brutal and bloody
world that Kurzel has visioned, creates an authentic and powerful
atmosphere that never deserts the viewer, allowing the famous story to
illustrate itself effortlessly across the screen. Half the battle is
won. Accompanied by an outstandingly appropriate score sets the scene
for a film that would not look out of place amongst the very best movie
releases this year. The eerie and sombre acoustics help keep the
audience fixed to their seats as the savage tragedy of Macbeth unfolds
in all its brutal glory.Michael Fassbender (Macbeth), plays the character to perfection and it
is his performance alone that makes it easier for the common man to
understand Shakespeare's historic language. Fassbender is thoroughly
engaged in his role and every word he delivers oozes emotion. Marion
Cotillard is equally impressive as the conniving Lady Macbeth.
Cotillard was an interesting choice to play the femme fatal, but she
has proved here that she can rise to any challenge. This performance is
a very colourful feather in a exceptional cap. Her Lady Macbeth helped
me to realise that she became somewhat of a victim to the King she had
created. "What is done, is done." I am quite sure that she didn't
envisage her warrior husband to become the tyrant that he became.
Adding to the list of superb performances is Sean Harris, the vengeful
and savage Macduff, who is hell bent on ending Macbeth's reign as the
Scottish Monarch. Great little cameos by David Thewlis (King Duncan)
and Elisabeth Debicki (Lady Macduff), along with brilliant visionary
direction by Justin Kurzel will give the uneducated hordes a chance to
witness one of Shakespeare's masterpieces.
