8
Fast & Furious 7 ~A memorable One Last Ride!

Fast & Furious 7 was special for me because of two reasons. First, it
is the last movie of the Fast & Furious series and second, it is Paul
Walker's last movie. Paul died tragically in a car accident in 2013
during the movie break, leaving a huge void in the cast and in the
hearts of his fans. This movie which was still in its production stage
when he died, is a tribute to this great actor as seen throughout the
film with its multiple references to "One Last Ride" and scenes in the
graveyard where actors talk of loss, goodbyes and one last adventure
together. There is a sadness and a sense of loss present all through
the movie which speaks volumes about the place that Paul held in the
hearts of his fellow actors who not only became his friends but also
brothers. The end is a heartrending adieu to the actor and had me misty
eyed and wishing Paul was still alive and well.Director James Wan of Insidious movie fame has taken up the director's
chair in this movie and does an exceptional job of piecing it together
while also managing to raise the entertainment bar. Nowhere was it
evident that the movie had been cleverly edited for the scenes that
were done after Paul's death. The movie entertains and excites with its
superbly done stunts with flying cars and dangerous larger-than-life
scenes. The acting is as usual memorable and it was great watching all
our beloved characters coming to a final point in their lives.This movie is beautifully stitched with The Fast & the Furious: Tokyo
Drift and takes up from its ending. Jason Statham makes his presence
felt in the role of a vengeful brother and his fights with Dom are
memorable. Dwayne Johnson has a comparatively smaller role in this film
but still is no less commanding and heroic. His catchy dialogues bring
humour and the thrill of the breathtaking action to come. Ali Fazal of
Fukrey fame also makes an appearance in the movie and manages to make
us laugh in his very small role. All the actors complement each other
and the acting flows fluidly with nowhere to show that all this is
acting and not real!All in all, I loved watching Fast & Furious 7 and while it was hinted
several times in the movie that this may very well be the last movie of
the franchise but still I hope that we will get to see another Fast &
Furious movie in the future. Go watch this entertaining film which is a
fitting tribute to Paul Walker.This review is also available on Njkinny's World of Books & Stuff
