2
The Woman in Black – predictable, derivative, tedious and clichéd commercial mess

Night of the Living Dead, the independent horror film made in 1968 had
perhaps the eeriest moment I have seen in film – the lady getting
stabbed by her own possessed daughter while her screams are heard in
the background. The repeated motion of the daughter's hand striking
with the knife is seen, but I don't recall having seen the actual
penetration of the knife. Although we do see the dead woman lying in
the corner, with pain and shock on her face – this is true horror. Very
few movies bring this kind of terror – Rosemary's Baby, The Blair Witch
Horror, Carrie etc. The best part about them is how we are constantly
aware of the imminent tension and are lead to it slowly, thus
intensifying the impact when it hits us. Night of Living Dead kept me
unnerved right to the iconic ending when it rained all its force with a
sweep. How wonderful to have such movies among us!Then there is The Woman in Black – predictable, derivative, tedious and
clichéd. We are aware that there is going to be an element of horror
because it written on Daniel Radcliffe's face even when he has not
faced it. How many times do I have to see spooky children that seem to
be controlled by some supernatural element? Their blank, expressionless
faces their slow walk and synchronized actions. This time we have
creepy dolls and toys as accompaniments; the mother who brings such
toys for her children is an unfit one. Daniel Radcliffe plays Arthur, a
young solicitor sporting some sideburns and a sweaty, haggard look,
whose wife is dead and now lives with his four year old son who notices
draws a stick figure of him with an unhappy look. Oh, such a clever boy
(roll eyes)! He has to handle an estate which no one is ready to tread,
especially the quiet, ominous country people, who believe the house is
cursed. Daniel steps in and sights a woman veiled in black, hence the
name. The villagers tell him to keep away as their children because of
his visits to the place. But Arthur, for some reason known only to him,
wants to unravel the secrets. Perhaps he may get a raise!The movie is excruciatingly boring partly because Radcliffe looks tense
when he isn't supposed to be and is relatively calm when he is supposed
to be frightened to death. The direction itself is so indicative that
it's a horror film, with the affected, spooked up style of talking,
even in the exchange between Radcliffe and the lawyer. I don't like
this senseless overstatement of fear, its shoddy. Radcliffe's Arthur
smells a strange air in the village, with most of the residents being
unfriendly and reserved. Everyone has that look which says 'Yeah, this
is a horror film! Be frightened!'; I would not have been surprised if
they had added Bela Lugosi's " Be Afraid!" monologue. The fear factor
is close to nil; I swear the entire theater, mostly comprising of women
and teenage girls, remained dead silent throughout. Even when the
ghost's presence became more and more evident. And I disagree with
Rotten Tomatoes' consensus that "it may not provide enough of them for
viewers attuned to modern, high-stakes horror". It is a slighting
remark since there are some viewers like me who are attuned to modern,
high-stakes horror but appreciate more the horror that is subtly but
effectively delivered. This movie was commercial mess.I wouldn't recommend The Woman in Black to anyone – it is devoid of any
unsettling moment and may be too boring even for 13 year olds.My Rating: 2 out of 10
