9
The best coming-of-age romantic drama comedy film of 2013

Last year, we have the spectacular Perks of Being of Wallflower. This 

year, we have The Way, Way Back and most of all, The Spectacular Now. 

It is a lovely, heartfelt, sweet, gentle and sincere film. The 

Spectacular Now focuses on most teen experiences: first love 

relationship, 'living in the now' attitude towards life, fear of the 

future, alcohol and family issues.



The story is about a charming, crude but troubled boy meets a reserved, 

shy, naive...yet sweet, smart girl/wallflower and managed to find a 

connection in each other. As the film progresses, it was shown that 

they enjoy hanging out together, helping and complementing each other. 



Sutter, the lead guy, plagued by alcoholism and family issues, must 

learn to confront his fears and face who he really is and learn what 

loving someone really means. Aimee, the lead girl, need to learn to 

stand up for herself against her controlling mother who might be 

potentially ruining her college future because she's responsible for 

partially paying the bills. The film may seem to be an average love 

story, but it carries a genuine believability to it. 



The film takes the first-love romance seriously but never falls to 

become the typical weepy Asian melodramas that Koreans are so fond of 

making. The two lead actors are great on screen, deliver strong 

convincing performance to let us believe that the love chemistry 

between them is real and managed keep the audience engaged throughout 

the film. There are some subtle humor throughout the film as well.



What a deeply affecting film this is. It's the best coming-of-age 

romantic drama comedy film of the year. 



Rating: 9/10



"But the real challenge in my life, the real hardship, is me. It's 

always been me. As long as I can remember, I've never not been afraid. 

Afraid of failure. Of letting people down. Hurting people. Getting 

hurt. I thought if I kept my guard up and focused on other things, 

other people...If I couldn't even feel, well, then no harm would come 

to me. I screwed up. Not only did I shut out the pain, I shut out 

everything. The good and the bad. Until there was nothing. It's fine to 

just "live in the now". But the best part about "now" is there's 

another one tomorrow. And I'm gonna start making them count"


