6
Webb Not Strong Enough

The Amazing Spider-Man begins with Peter Parker in high school. Though
an amateur photographer, Peter's main interest is science - and he
bluffs his way into an audience with his deceased father's ex-partner
Dr Curt Connors. After impressing Connors with his knowledge of cross-
species genetics, Peter enters a classified area and is bitten by a
mutated spider. As his powers and secret identity develop, so too does
his relationship with Connors protégé, and Parker's classmate, Gwen
Stacey. But when the desperate Connors attempts to fight his personal
weaknesses using the same untested method, he undergoes a more
disastrous transformation into "The Lizard", a creature with a twisted
view of how best to 'cure' humanity.The Amazing Spider-Man's origin story is undoubtedly an improvement on
Raimi's Spider-Man, a decade prior. The characterisation is a lot more
realistic, which makes it easier for the audience to feel Parker's
teenage pain, awkwardness and ultimate escapism when he dons the guise
of Spider-Man. Emma Stone's Gwen Stacey is also a welcome replacement
for Mary-Jane, who's sole purpose in Raimi's films was either to moan
or scream. Stacey by contrast, is an intelligent character in her own
right, who doesn't shy away from getting her hands dirty when Spider-
Man's in trouble. Rhys Ifans portrayal of Curt Connors has the same
Jekyllian vulnerability seen in Mark Ruffallo's Bruce Banner earlier
this year, although his motives are distorted somewhat as the film
progresses.However, such interesting character development unfortunately does not
hold together perfectly with the action. Of course, Spider-Man is
foremost a movie that has to entertain; yet the cocky web-slinging CGI
hero seems too unlike Garfield's brooding Peter Parker. The quality of
the special effects is largely inconsistent, with POV scenes of Spider-
Man diving around the city impressing greatly, whilst his actual
battles with The Lizard are considerably less ambitious. The weighty
retelling of Parker's familiar back-story also means that during the
dénouement several large plot points, which could have expanded the
action, are left undeveloped – and so the ending is a little too simple
and unsatisfactory.Webb has successfully addressed the new demand for superhero movies to
be deeper and more human; yet he is not a director adept at providing
big-budget action to an audience in the same way as Joss Whedon or
Christopher Nolan. The Amazing Spider-Man is therefore the sum of two
films, a satisfactory coming-of-age movie and an unchallenging action
film. Unfortunately, Webb is not strong enough to convincingly hold the
two together.
