6
The kinky background of Wonder Woman, if a bit embellished

When the PROFESSOR MARSTON AND THE WONDER WOMEN was made last year,
they likely felt it would be fortuitous to come so soon after the big
budget WONDER WOMAN this summer (there's also a line about the first
female President that they figured would have tied in as well). But,
virtually all the girls and women dressed like Wonder Woman at Comic
Con this July (by far the most popular costume), would be shocked to
know the kinky origins of their female superhero as depicted in
PROFESSOR MARSTON (Note: the Marston heirs dispute much of the
depiction of the personal lives of their ancestors). But, there is no
dying the fetishistic B&D and S&M artwork in the early comics
themselves.The movie begins at Radcliffe college where the Professor (Luke Evans)
and his wife Elizabeth (Rebecca Hall) teach psychology. Elizabeth isn't
allowed a full professorship because she is a woman. A new student,
Olive (Bella Heathcote) catches their eye and she becomes their
assistant. Their work includes the development of the lie detector
(which they failed to copyright to their economic detriment) and the
Professor's DISC theory (Dominance, Inducement, Submission &
Compliance). According to the screenplay by Writer-Director Angela
Robinson the trio begin a full-on menage a trois open marriage (again,
the descendants resist this interpretation). According to the
screenplay, the hanky panky leads to the couples' expulsion from the
university. Flash forward to 1947, and Marston is being interrogated by
the legion of decency (the movie seems to fudge the date a bit as most
of the crusade against comics happened after the Professor's passing).Regardless of the accuracy of the script, the movie itself is dominated
by Elizabeth - partially because of how the movie is written and
directed, but largely because of the superb performance by Hall. Luke
Evans is decent, but, fairly pedestrian, while one wonders what the
couple sees in bland Olive other than her attractiveness and her
submission to their needs (that does play out in the movie's theory of
the creation of the Wonder Woman comic character). Heathcoate is
earnest, but, also rather a cipher - particularly in contrast to Hall's
fireball of a performance.PROFESSOR MARSTON is decently made and pleasant enough if rather
bloodless. The big three-way sex scene has all the eroticism of a soap
commercial. One also wishes that more were made of the connection
between the kinky imagery and the sexual suppression of the era
(continuing on into the 50s with it's own S&M sex symbol in Betty
Page). One thing the filmmakers couldn't have predicted last year
during production was the passing of Hugh Hefner so shortly before the
movie's release. In many ways, the wholesome Girl-Next-Door look of
Hef's Playboy Playmates overtook the fetishism of 40s & early 50s
pornography and shuffled that stuff off as niche. Now that the perfect
Playmate could be your neighbor, one didn't need the rough stuff.
PROFESSOR MARSTON isn't bad, but, it's fortuitous release date didn't
seem to help at the box office despite moderately positive reviews.
Folks may want their female superheros in bright splashy blockbuster
features, but, they don't necessarily want to know the perverse story
behind the story. Consider PROFESSOR MARSTON a DVD extra - strictly for
adults.
