9
I highly recommend it!

'THE SURVIVALIST': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five)A British post-apocalyptic thriller, filmed all in Northern Ireland,
about a violent future world where people must 'kill or be killed' in
order to survive. It tells the story of a survivalist man, who
reluctantly teams up with two women, one older and one younger, even
though there's a strong possibility they might attempt to kill him at
any time. It was written and directed by debut feature filmmaker
Stephen Fingleton, and it stars Martin McCann, Mia Goth and Olwen
Fouere. The film was made on a budget of just $1 million, and it's only
received a limited indie theatrical and VOD release, but it's received
nearly unanimous rave reviews from critics; it's also won multiple
prestigious international awards, and been nominated for many more. I
thoroughly enjoyed it.The movie tells the story of an unnamed survivalist man (McCann), who
has been living on his own for some time in the middle of the woods.
He's built a small cabin for himself there, where he harvests crops for
food, and defends himself by setting up traps (for intruders) around
his little farm. When two women, one older (Fouere) and one younger
(Goth), come to his cabin asking for food, he's very reluctant to trust
or help them. He agrees to give them food though, and a place to stay
for one night, in exchange for sex with the younger woman. He then
reluctantly agrees to let the women stay longer, which could eventually
lead to his death (as they secretly plot to kill him).The film starts out pretty slow-paced, as it spends a significant
amount of time just showing how the survivalist lives (on his own in
the woods). The movie shows his daily routine in great detail, even to
the extent of showing him masturbate on seeds in order to help them
grow. Even after the two female characters enter the film though,
there's very little dialogue; especially from the lead character, who
has very few lines in the entire movie. Once the two women characters
do enter the story though, the film is almost always engaging from
there on (until the very last scene). It turns into a very dark and
disturbing film, that's also sometimes very intense to watch. Although
there's very little dialogue in it, the movie is also a great
characters study as well. As disturbing as the film almost always is,
it's still a very fascinating and worthwhile movie to experience. I
highly recommend it.Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/hAV3iy1JkJ8
