1
A rather pretentious, boring, long and vaguely insightful film.

CONTAINS SPOILERS OF BOTH VOLUME I AND II: I give a 1 to this film to
balance if possible the high rating it got in this site. The film was
rather pretentious and was at a certain degree a classic example of
emptiness trying to present itself as "high art". The parallels of
nymphomania with fishing in the first half of the film and with
Christianity later where pointless and just to make impressions in my
opinion, even insulting or blasphemous in some points i could say.
Another thing i found strange was the extreme use of "deep" and "wise"
references to mathematical, scientific and philosophical concepts. But
it all seemed rather forced, messy, and meaningless. It also failed in
my opinion to get deep in the human psyche and explore effectively or
at least expose the spherical/ holistic nature of the phenomenon of
nymphomania. It was quite single sided and narrow minded as i see it.
As for the people that claim it was a deep psychological journey, sorry
von Trier fans, but the impression this film gave me is that he is a
person with poor and shallow insight on the human being not to say
prejudiced. In the end i didn't feel being left with some serious food
for thought, intriguing questions or spiritually benefited and more
self-aware or with self doubt and criticism. I also had the impression
that the film was quite naive in some psychological aspects and
delivered a rather childish, unrealistic or idealistic view of the
human psyche and reality (yes despite all the cruelty and misery
depicted it still gave me that impression). Especially at the depiction
of the first years of her life and her maturity to adulthood. The
showing of nudity as some said and the sex scenes, where not that
extreme and had a reason to be there in some moments, but in others i
agree that they where there just for the shake of being, no help to the
plot or anything. The exploration of the human perversions and fetishes
was rather forced too, like the bdsm chapter, gave me the impression
that it was there so that the director could state "look! we have put
bdsm too in it" and didn't necessarily deliver the desperate odyssey
and degeneration of a tortured soul in a realistically climaxing way.
It is also important to mention that this was a humourless movie
whatsoever. Every attempt of "humour" was rather too dark, trolling,
unintelligent, immature or just provoking. Even the born to be wild
song in the train scene. Or the casting of Shia Labeouf, if this had a
humorous intention in the first place of course. So no mature and
original humour. The acting was a bit sloppy too i think, i especially
didn't like much the acting of the old Joe (who is the protagonist for
god's shake)at a major part of the film but wasn't impressed by young
Joe's either. Another weak point was the excessive use of tiring
narration, exposition, a sign of weak writing that cannot deliver it's
messages subtly and with ease but rather immoderately throws them at
the viewer's face. One of the few things i liked in the film was how we
got little secret messages and warnings from the beginning about the
final scene, where the old man would try to take advantage of her.
Honestly i expected that from the beginning. Some will say that it was
another drawback of the film cause it was predictable, linear,
unintelligent etc bit i think it was delivered in a nice and well
thought way. One of the few well thought things of the film. The
answers he gave to her shocking stories, how he always tried to justify
her actions but came a bit needy, his body language and acting, even
some verbal slip-ups. All came to draw the picture of a perverted,
repressed old geezer that was ready to explode any moment now. Even he
stated he read everything literature has to give on sex, showing his
obsession but impotence to make his urges real. If it was just an
asexual philosopher he would have read some things just to have an
opinion on love but wouldn't have obsessively and explicitly exhaust
all the relevant literature. I liked the depiction of the oppressed
man, it was more effective than the nymphomaniac's unfortunately. I
liked the antithesis of the two main protagonists. The insatiable one
that fully gave in in her passion and the "ascetic monk type" that
fully repressed it for a life. The one ended up repenting and the other
dying for letting his passion feed inside him for all these years. They
weren't so different in that sense that's why they came to all these
distorted conclusions about love and life, each one by his perspective.
Even that "catchy" phrase on love was talking about sinful destructive
passion of egoism than love, but they never lived true love so they
couldn't have a valid opinion on it. There where also practical
mistakes in the film like plot holes, logical inconsistencies,
unnatural time loops etc. but i don't want to waste time on these, let
other commenters exploit these. For example she went to medical school
and did a gyno exam in the beginning? how? was she on her medical
specialty? no. she was just a sophomore where they just open corpses
and such, they don't do gyno exams. (except if things are different in
england and i'm mistaken). The p girl chapter near the end i found it
rather bizarre, unrealistic, not making much sense and just being there
to make more shocking impressions or hopelessly try to save something
that seemed doomed already. So in conclusion four hours are far too
much for a film that has no much to offer you (i include volume 2 too).
But if you are so curious arm yourselves with patience and watch it.
