1
Horrible experience (I read the books)

This was terrible.Honestly. Terrible. I've seen Jonah Hex and Catwoman at the cinema,
(yes I paid real money to see both movies), so trust me to recognise a
bad movie when I see it. This was worse than Percy Jackson. Go see that instead. I've read the books for this, the entire Book 1 and 2 and I've skimmed
the key parts of 3. It does not help. People are saying that it might
have been better if you read the books? NO.This is a horrible adaptation. It's in the vicinity of "Eragon bad."I am not lying. If you're asking yourself, "should I watch this movie?"
the answer is NO. There's nothing to gain. If you generally like bad
movies, then feel free, (sometimes you just get the urge for a stinker,
this is fact), but otherwise - avoid. The writing is atrocious. The direction is atrocious. Some of the lines
will crawl your blood, even if you're the youngest most movie-naive
teenage girl in existence. There are scenes that'll make you feel
embarrassed for the actors. I'm serious. There is this one scene that
is so cheesy... I can't even describe it, but it's like all the cheese
and all the corny from all five twilight movies condensed into 30-45
seconds.This makes the Twilight Saga look worthy of an Academy Award. Every
single joke falls flat. Every single one. Jace is supposed to be the
witty one, and he's supposed to have this banter-prone persona - he
doesn't. This Jace is almost shy. The dialogue is horrendous. The
clichés hit you so hard you start thinking it's a parody halfway
through, (it isn't). Geezus. The Tudors king guy is in it, but he can't save it. I think his
appearance was the proverbial nail, in fact. The end is almost
incomprehensible as you just lose yourself in a storm of clichés. The
movie's plot contradicts all logic and all pathways of common sense,
and I'm not exaggerating here.Now, I grant that the source material wouldn't win any awards either.
There won't be any Team Jace or Team Simon T shirts on sale. Not sure
how many Clary fans there are in the world, but I'd guess, not much
because the original book characters are not the best characters ever.
The book's plot isn't the most original thing ever. The books
themselves are crap, being honest, but they're tolerable crap. This
movie takes that crap and makes crap soup with it. They bring the crap
to a boil. They season it... All the better to bring out that smoky
crap flavour. Movie adaptations seldom ever are better than the book, (and I count
LOTR as the only exception), but when the bar was set this low, you
have to ask "How did they F''' this up?" They had a decent cast. Decent
acting too... It's just the writing! It's like the first draft of a
screenplay that gets hammered out in a dark latrine while the writer is
suffering from food poisoning. Who approves this stuff? Really. Who
signed off on this as a good idea. Somewhere along the way, while this
movie was being made, someone should have said NO. I feel like this
movie should have some controversy to it. Someone should have stormed
off the set. I feel like drugs were involved? Maybe? Mindblowingly bad. The opposite of epic. Painful and embarrassing to
watch. Hands down the worst movie of the year.And there's going to be a sequel? NO. Say NO, people. Just say NO.
