3
'February' is a very bleak and fairly uninteresting movie, however the score by Elvis Perkins was phenomenal. I just wish this movie had a bit more to it.

We've seen our fair share of demonic possession movies over the past
several decades with some standing out in the spotlight and scaring us
for years on end. Then there is the other side of this coin where these
demonic possession movies fall very short from making any kind of sense
other than to produce cheap scares. That brings us to the movie
'February', written and directed by Oz Perkins, who is more an actor
than a director, this being his directorial debut.'February' takes place in, well, February and centers around an all
girl's boarding school where all of the girls are going on some sort of
February week break from school. A few girls stay back for the week a s
they tell the headmaster their parents got the dates mixed up. Soon
enough, we see there is something very sinister happening at this
boarding school. The girls we follow are Joan, Kat, and Rose (Emma
Roberts, Kiernan Shipka, Lucy Boynton), who all seem a little bit off
kilter as they walk around aimlessly on the school grounds set to
creepy music.That's basically the gist of this movie, unfortunately. 'February' is a
super slow paced demonic possession film that never pays off in the end
and has a wonky time-line and uneven editing scheme that ultimately
makes the movie confusing. There are some fairly creepy and haunting
moments, but they never last more than a couple of seconds and are
spaced so far out, that you might forget what type of movie you're
actually watching. It's a shame too, because there are some excellent
actors here too, but the substance is less than thrilling.Towards the end of the 'February', things tend to get a bit more
violent, but it's done in such a cheap 80's slasher type of way, that
it's almost laughable and not scary at all, which is the opposite of
what Perkins was trying to convey here with all of his steely blue and
gray exteriors and interiors. 'February' is a very bleak and fairly
uninteresting movie, however the score by Elvis Perkins was phenomenal.
I just wish this movie had a bit more to it.Skip It!
