10
awash in blood and graphic violence

Let be The Evil Dead (1981) be in my top 5 list of best horrors ever.
So I was waiting until the evil came out to finally see another failing
remake I thought. But have heard only positive things about the remake
I had my doubts. At last, after a lot of stupid remakes this one kicks
you straight in the face. In fact, it's based on the original one.
Bruce Campbell and Sam Raimi were involved in making this flick and
Fede Alvarez (the director) did a great job for his first full feature.Let me first of all say this. If you can't stand extreme gory horrors
than stay away from this flick. It contains shock gore just for the
gore. If you thought this was going to be a supernatural ride then
forget it. This is really one for the gorehounds. Does it look like the original Evil Dead. Of course not. Back then a
few effects were done with stop motion. Here we luckily have the real
effects and okay, here and there some CGI which I didn't mind at all.
But to go back on the original. Yes, it do has the chainsaw, yes it do
has the slapping door, yes it do has the evil faces from back then and
yes we do have the woods attacking a girl, but not raping her like in
the original. Was it scary? It never was scary at one moment but still, you will
watch it with your mouth open. From the opening sequence you are
immediately into the Evil Dead ride. Why I do give kudos to the
director is that he made the movie he wanted to make but to please the
old school fans he added references to the original.The acting of course had to be good too and luckily it was. But did
they do jokes like in the original. Not really, that was left out here,
admit it, we are 30 years later!Finally, I'm happy to see that they didn't give a sh*t towards the
ratings. They made Evil Dead as they wanted to make it, it's full of
red stuff. Not done like the new horrors with digital animation. This
is old school, this is great, for me a must see for the buffs walking
this earth. Finally horror is back with some evil dead to show you....Gore 4/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 4/5 Story 4/5 Comedy 0/5
