8
Unexpected Fascination

2012's Magic Mike wasn't exactly about the stripping. Sure, it features
a lot of it, but the real center of the movie was the lifestyle of its
main character, Mike. This latest installment showcases more of the
crew and how they put up the show. It's more choreography driven than
some commentary, which actually made it more appropriate to this
material. It still has the stunning style of the first one, though it
mostly feels quite forced, but if the movie tries to be itself, then
there it actually shines. Magic Mike XXL indeed brings much of what you
expect from it.While the first movie basically shows the art of its aesthetics, this
sequel rather shows the art of stripping. The story isn't quite
remarkable; it's so simple that it's nothing more than an excuse to
show more of these acts, which is both a good thing and otherwise. But
really, that's what the target audience really came here for. Just like
the first one, it's all atmosphere than following a plot. We just see
these characters trying to get along, hint some commentary, and do some
stripping. The difference however is the stripping is the real
showcase, as in the direction and choreography improves within that
aspect which makes these performances speak what this movie is truly
about. People would immediately think that this would only appeal
female viewers, but even as a straight man as I am, I would actually be
impressed by the choreography displayed on those scenes.The direction does try to keep Soderbergh's style going in this sequel,
though only eschewing the intense sepia and welcoming other colors on
the daylight. The new style is sometimes indefinite, specifically the
vague lighting in some scenes, but then, the movie eventually breaks
the pretense once the characters start dancing on screen, having more
focus on their moves, and of course, bodies. Star, Channing Tatum,
still has the charm as he always has. The other performers also get
their characters expanded, staying natural whenever they bond and fight
off on screen, treating them beyond than typical eye candy compared to
the first one.Many may call Magic Mike XXL a totally needless sequel or a cash grab
for those who seek for more endless dose of shirtless men, but I
believe this movie actually exists to make up for its own value. The
story may not be as meaty as its predecessor's, but it shows everything
what its audiences actually wanted for it. And it is done elegantly,
proving that stripping apparently has more to offer than just lust for
flesh. It sounds incredibly weird if you say it that way, but looking
at these performances seems like this is an art that we didn't see
coming. Again, there's nothing remarkable about the story, though if
you're curious about the appeal of this career, then it gives a room
for fascination.
