7
Sequel tries to recapture lightning of original, gets lesser but still fun product

This movie feels familiar, and on two counts it is.The Golden Circle is the sequel to the unexpected success story
Kingsman: The Secret Service, which was a humorous satire of spy movie
tropes with serious undertones mixed in. It knew when to be serious and
when to be so serious it was funny. That, combined with some excellent
cinematography, made The Secret Service a thoroughly enjoyable film.The Golden Circle has all of these things as well, but while still fun
it just comes off feeling like a lesser imitation of the original.Which is where the second count of familiarity comes in: 2017 had
another one of these sequels repeat the same formula with lesser
results, namely Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2. Curiously, both
original films (Kingsman: The Secret Service and Guardians of the
Galaxy) premiered in 2014 with both sequels coming out this year.Now, that's not to say that Guardians Vol. 2 wasn't fun, and The Golden
Circle has plenty of fun as well.The film finds the Kingsman on the receiving end of a ruthless Julianne
Moore as Poppy, a leader of a drug cartel who wants all drugs to be
legalized. Her leverage: her drugs will kill all of its users, of which
there are hundreds of millions worldwide. With the Kingsmen's UK
resources destroyed, it's up to Taron Egerton's Eggsy and Mark Strong's
Merlin to team up with the Statesmen, the US intelligence service
featuring Jeff Bridges's Champ, Channing Tatum's Tequila, and Halle
Berry's Ginger Ale.There are fast-paced, well-shot action scenes throughout, as with the
original Kingsman, the standout being the taxi chase at the beginning.
The dialogue is fun, but it hits a few sour notes along the way,
especially in its parodying of a certain political figure which comes
off as ham-fisted and forced.The pacing of this film is a problem. At 2 hours 21 minutes, it
definitely feels too long, especially when there are one too many big
set pieces that feel like they should be the stage for the finale but
end up being not.Finally, there's a right way and a wrong way to do callbacks to the
previous film in a sequel. It's OK to be overt, as long as it's
balanced with other, more subtle references as well. Unfortunately, The
Golden Circle tends to pound you over the head with callbacks,
including literally splicing in footage from the first film in
reference to characters who are supposed to be important, but for the
life of me you can't possibly remember where they popped up in the
first film unless you watch it right before seeing this one.Overall, I would say that there is nothing truly objectionable about
this film (although throwing in lots of F-Bombs doesn't automatically
equal comedy), but this film may just serve as a reminder of a much
more solid film that came before it rather than standing on its own
merits.
