2
A visually pleasing movie with numerous plot-holes and a bad ending.

The idea of a billionaire recluse living in an exotic locale who
summons a young and grateful software engineer (Caleb) to evaluate his
latest humanoid robot sets the stage for what could and should have
been an interesting and intriguing film.But soon the movie breaks down into a series of boring interviews with
the robot (Ava). The billionaire (Nathan) lives a lonely life with his
human(?) servants where he tinkers in his lab and spends his off-time
drinking copious amounts of alcohol and then pummelling punching bags
and pumping iron in order to detox from the booze.But here are the logic disconnect/plot-holes.1) If Nathan wanted Caleb to evaluate his latest humanoid "model" then
why is Ava incomplete with missing "flesh" exposing her electronic
circuitry 2) Why would Nathan allow his power system to be vulnerable to
interference from Ava where she can talk privately with Caleb thus
possibly undermining Nathan's plans? 3) Why would Nathan live all alone in a compound without any security
guards ? 4) One night Nathan passes out drunk thus allowing Caleb to get his
access card allowing him to reprogram the security measures of the
building. You would think thatNathan wouldn't use something so
"old-school" like a plastic card thatcould easily be stolen. How about
biometrics instead that would make itvirtually impossible to have any
security breaches.5) In the end Nathan is stabbed to death by one of the robots. One
would think that he could have programmed to NOT commit violence on his
person.6) Eventually Ava gains her freedom by playing Caleb and goes to the
Robot storage room. Needing to look more human she strips off faux skin
from an Asian model. Did the thought occur to her or the writer that
the skin from an Asian wouldn't match hers.7) When the day comes for Caleb to be airlifted by helicopter from the
high-tech hideaway Ava struts out to take Caleb's place on the
helicopter. You would think that the pilot would be suspicious about
picking up a young woman instead of the computer nerd he was supposed
to: duh.In short this movie is nothing more than eye-candy set in an exotic
locale with a few titillating nude scenes.To me it seems most directors aren't good writers. This movie would
have been much better if Caleb himself was actually a robot and he was
summoned to Nathan's hideaway for HIS ultimate evaluation. Caleb,
realizing his situation conspires with the other robots and kills
Nathan where they all exist together in seclusion or eventually find
some way to escape.
