3
The Death of Lightning McQueen and Radiator Springs.

So, I have always been a huge fan of Cars and it's franchise. I was 9
years old when the first movie came out and as a kid I became obsessed
with the movie. At the age of 20, I can say that I still love the
original movie as much as I did when I first saw it in theaters all
those years ago. The thing that made the movie so great was the authenticity and the
realness in emotion between the characters and actors. The jokes and
witty humor that was in the movie still has me laughing today at jokes
I would have never understood as a child. Authenticity, great humor,
and quality acting are all things that Pixar completely ignored in this
new movie. From the first scene of the movie I could tell something was a bit off.
The movie starts off much like the original Cars movie with the "I am
Speed" bit where Lightning McQueen readies himself for the race, when
all of a sudden you see the character, Mater, inside the trailer with
him, breaking his concentration with a dumb line that's not even worth
remembering (I don't remember). This scene alone gave me the impression
that the quality of the movie will be mediocre, at best. It was one of
those scenes where the two main characters are put into a situation in
which, the director's intent is to invoke a feeling of nostalgia and
sympathy for the characters as if this is the last time you will ever
see them. No real humor, no real emotion, just lame character banter as
if you were watching a flashback scene of a long gone character talk to
another posthumously. This scene did nothing but dissatisfy me. Anyway, moving on...the acting. The acting in the movie was bad. Almost
every character in the movie was delivered with a slow, monotonous,
lack of emotion as if it were rushed. (this entire movie seems rushed)
Even Owen Wilson, a highly respected actor and the voice of Lightning
McQueen, showed very little enthusiasm. One character in particular who was probably the most disappointing was
Doc Hudson's mentor, Smokey. Talk about an anticlimactic character. The
actor who played the character sounded as if he were just reading lines
from a paper the directors threw in front of him. Very disappointing,
especially due to the immense amount of expectations a long time Cars
fan would have for such a highly respected image. It's the mentor for
Doc Hudson for crying out loud!The only character that had the least bit of enthusiasm was the new
character, Cruz Ramirez however, her personality and dialogue was so
obnoxious and out of place, it made her delivery no better than any of
the other characters. If not, worse. So, acting and dialogue was pretty much one of the lowest points for
this movie however, the story. Oh my God the ending. Probably the worst
twist ending of any Pixar movie I have seen. Basically, after training for the ENTIRE movie, Lightning McQueen gives
up. He ends up realizing that he can't complete the race so he gives up
and lets Cruz finish for him. Now I am not disappointed at the fact
that Cruz was able to race, I am disappointed that the entire movie
gave you hopes and expectations for Lightning to rise above and win his
last race victorious. Instead, all of your dreams and expectations are
shot down in one moment, as if Lightning's crash wasn't sad enough. As I come to and end I would like to point out some good things about
the movie. The graphics of course were stunning and beautiful. Each
action scene was quite entertaining to watch especially Lightning's
crash scene. The emotion and impact of that scene alone was insane.
That silence...wow. The newer cars were cool to see as well even though
none of them had any interesting personalities at all.Overall, I was fairly disappointed by the movie. This was the death of
Lightning McQueen and all of Radiator Springs for sure. I don't see
Pixar doing anything but hopefully regretting what they have done to
the series. Cars 4? What's the point?
