6
The Campaign: A decent review to a decent movie.

Let me start off by saying that I love Will Ferrell and Zack
Galifianakis. I love most of the films they starred in. So upon hearing
that these two comedic heavyweights will be starring in the same movie
together, you could imagine my excitement. Did it meet my expectations?
Sort of. This comedy staring these two actors was enjoyable and had
plenty of laughs but after viewing, I realized how it could have been
much better. Basically, Democratic playboy Cam Brady has to verse off against
republican every-man Marty Huggins after Marty enters the race against
the long-term congressmen Cam at the last minute. This of course leads
to hilarious incidents that occur in both parties. The basic plot line is really effective since the film is not biased
and allows for making fun of both parties, which I very much
appreciate. Unfortunately, the real issues lie in the acting and
writing. Ferrell And Galifianakis really don't get the chance to spread
there "wings" in this film. Both have the potential to be hilarious but
they never get the chance. Jason Sudeiki's seems very unused as Cam
Brady's Assistant Mitch. Again, he does not get the chance to shine in
this film. I love John Lithgow and Dan Aykroyd but there roles in this
film are very unnecessary. They are not really funny or entertaining to
watch. This is unfortunate. Jay Roach really tried to make a good film,
but I think he picked the wrong actors for this film. He shines in
romantic comedies like Meet the Parents but he is trying to hard to
make a Will Farrell film. It would have been much better with Adam
McKay. It's not all bad though. The scenes that are funny, are hilarious and
make will make anyone with a sense of humor laugh. The film's pacing is
very good and the chemistry between Farrell And Galifianakis is just
perfect. In the end, if you go in the theater with an open mind and a
sense of humor, you will enjoy it. Just don't expect another Step
Brothers or Hangover.
