3
Just garbage

How is it possible to spend so much cash making a movie so utterly
meaningless and bad? 185 million USD?This is 2 hours of your life that you will never get back.So, where to start? First off the story is so thin and seems like a
child wrote it. It has no depth and right from the beginning you feel
basically nothing for the bad guys or the good guys, and there are so
many holes in the story.There happens to be a huge base far out in space where the Enterprise
is going to restock? Isen't the Enterprise supposed to be out in deep
space exploring?Next to this large space base there is a nebula and apparently a planet
with perfect conditions for human survival. It seems to be right next
to the large space base, which would seem very very unlikely
considering the vastness of space. And the crew happen to land on the
same small area of this huge planet so they can all meet up.Then they meet a character that seems to be a bad mix of Rey from Star
Wars and Neytiri from Avatar who happen to have found an old federation
ship (that of course they can get to work after 150 years on a deserted
planet), very unoriginal.So the reason for the bad guy Krall to lure the Enterprise to his
planet and destroy it seems to be a device that Kirk has that will help
Krall kill people. But in the end of the movie it is very clear that
using his ships alone he could have easily destroyed the base - so what
was the purpose of this relic device in the first place?There is quite bad CGI during the whole movie. In every action packed
scene especially the fighting the camera moves around so much it is
hard to grasp what is happening. But even with this shaky camera trick
it's impossible to miss how utterly bad these scenes are. The fighting
scene between Manas and our Rey character is one of the worst Iv seen
in a long time.The only thing decent with this movie are some of the actors and their
dialog. Everything else, from story to script to CGI is just garbage.Im sorry I like Star Trek I really do, but this movie is not worth
seeing in the cinema.
