4
Silence and Tumbleweeds not included

Comedy westerns have a strong legacy through classics like Mel Brooks'
"Blazing Saddles", "Support your Local Sheriff/Gunfighter" (with James
Garner), "Paleface" and "Son of Paleface" (with Bob Hope and Jane
Russell) all the way back to the brilliant "Destry Rides Again" (with
James Stewart and Marlene Dietrich). Unfortunately for each of these
classics there's the odd "Wild Wild West" to restore movie western
Karma, and Seth Macfarlane's follow on to "Ted" – "A Million Ways to
Die in the West" – is on that other side of the scales.Macfarlane aside (who really isn't funny enough to take the leading
role of the sheep farmer Albert) the rest of the cast is bordering on
stellar featuring Liam Neeson, Sarah Silverman, Amanda Seyfried and the
gorgeous Charlize Theron. And they work very hard at it: Theron
occasionally laughs like a hyena (to cover the fact that normally we
are not) and Neeson plays the straight man villain very straight
indeed.So let's accentuate the positive for a moment. The photography of the
Utah locations is gorgeous. Joel McNeely's western score is sumptuous
(gotta love a western soundtrack) and the songs (including the
moustache song and the title song) are both catchy and suitably
ridiculous.And there are moments in this film that are genuinely funny: Sarah
Silverman's Christian hooker with a heart who is "saving herself" for
her husband-to-be, played by the excellent Giovanni Ribisi (Frank
Buffay Jnr in "Friends"), while servicing 10 of the locals ("on a slow
day"); shooting practice with plates and a doctor's blue woodpecker for
the aftermath; the Navajo translation for "fine" being "Mila Kunis" and
– most surreal of all – Albert's drugged up trip with moustache wearing
dancing sheep.There are also some amusing cameos, particularly one in a barn (don't
watch some of the trailers that cheaply give it away).But the bits that did make me really laugh were few and far between. A
lot of the jokes fall face first into the dry Utah dust with the humour
similar to Albert's aim: scattergun. The script stoops to swearing at
every opportunity (because that's always funny isn't it?) and whilst
toilet humour can work in moderation you need to know when to stop and
when to leave something to the imagination. I'd like to suggest that
this was a self-written, self-directed over-indulgent piece by
Macfarlane, given carte blanche to indulge, and over-indulge, by studio
execs after the runaway success of "Ted" – - but he did have co-writers
who could and should have balanced his content more (Alec Sulkin and
Wellesley Wild – I haven't actually checked that these don't make an
anagram of Seth Macfarlane).Comedy movies need to have good material across the whole running time,
which means the films need to be tautened until the material 'twangs'
along its whole length. This was not one of those films.(If you enjoyed this review, please check out my other reviews on
bobmann447.wordpress.com, and sign up to "Follow the Fad". Thanks!).
