6
Great performances with an average storyline! 6/10

Review: Everything that I have seen and heard about Steve Jobs,
portrays him as an over controlling man with a bad attitude but you
can't fault him for his amazing vision which has taken over the world.
After his tragic death in 2011, at the age of 56, his company has still
grown from strength to strength but his questionable methods and warped
way of thinking, must have been difficult for the people around.
Anyway, from an entertainment point of view, this film seemed very one
toned and it felt like a group of conversations more than an deep
insight behind the genius. The way that he talked to people and used
vindictive tactics to get what he wanted, was truly horrible and he
didn't really care about people's feelings. Even his daughter struggled
to retain a decent relationship with Jobs but it was good to see that
his trustee companion, Joanna Hoffman (Kate Winslet), had the ability
to bring him back to earth. Michael Fassbender played his role
extremely well alongside Seth Rogen (Steve Wozniak) and Kate Winslet
but the storyline seemed messy and I would have liked to have seen
Steve Jobs, in his earlier years. I also would have liked to have seen
real footage of the individuals that were in the movie and they should
have shown how Apple has changed the world today. I still enjoyed
watching how he built his company and the relationship between Jobs and
his daughter, Lisa, who he disowned in her early years but I don't
think that his amazing story has been portrayed with much depth to
date. If I was his close friend or a part of his family, I wouldn't be
happy with the way that these movies have portrayed Jobs, because none
of them show his good side. Maybe he didn't have one! Anyway, it's a
watchable movie but I was expecting more from this top class director.
Watchable!Round-Up: Although Fassbender didn't look anything like Steve Jobs,
over the 14 year period that the movie portrays, he still brought
enormous intensity to the character, who seemed quite scary to be
around. The music throughout the movie, suited the mood that was set by
the director, Danny Boyle, 59 but I didn't quite understand why the
whole film is based backstage, before Jobs is going to release a new
computer. You can tell that Boyle has taken the events from a book,
because it seemed more like a play than a movie. What's quite
fascinating about the film, is that it proves that Jobs actually wasn't
the engineer behind the many devices that was released under the Apple
name but it was his unique vision and determination to get what he
wanted, which has proved to be EXTREMELY successful. I was hoping to
get more from the movie but I personally think that I need to watch the
many documentaries to find out more about the mind behind the Apple
brand.Budget: $30million Worldwide Gross: $35millionI recommend this movie to people who are into their biography/dramas
starring Michael Fassbender, Kate Winslet, Seth Rogen, Jeff Daniels,
Michael Stuhlbarg and Katherine Waterston. 6/10
