8
A Fun Instalment For Fans Of The Franchise

The Child's Play franchise has never been a huge favourite of mine, due
to the fact that most of the sequels are complete rubbish, with a
couple exceptions. Back in 2013 when this franchise was revitalized
with Curse of Chucky, I was pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed
that film. Now, Cult of Chucky has hit the shelves and I must state
something that I didn't expect when going into this film. This is one
of the best films this franchise has ever released. Obviously nothing
will be able to touch the simplistic, yet special world that the
original film created, but this may just be the best sequel yet. Written and directed by Don Mancini, who has written every film since
the very beginning back in 1988, it has been very clear that he enjoys
having these films take place throughout very limited space. Whether in
an apartment, a house, or a toy factory, these movies have always felt
very self- contained, which I can definitely appreciate. This time
around, Cult of Chucky takes place entirely at an insane asylum, where
previous, as well as new victims linger. Playing with the audiences
mind as to whether or not this doll has just been a hallucination all
along, I found myself engaged the entire way through, which is far more
than any of the other sequels have done for me. With the help of old
friends, this movie seems to truly bring the franchise full circle,
which was nice to see. If you've never seen this franchise before, I can guarantee that this
film won't do much for you, and if you've seen it and didn't enjoy it
in the past, then this one won't be the one to win you over either.
This is a solid little horror flick that's elevated by past characters
and events, so it really is a franchise piece. I'm stating these
things, because those who thoroughly enjoy these movies know that they
shouldn't be taking them too seriously. Yes, there are some genuinely
terrifying moments of gore throughout Cult of Chucky, but the fact that
he's a fowl-mouthed doll is just meant to be charming and entertaining,
just in a gruesome way. When watching this film, it gives you a sense that there will sill be
more films to come throughout the years, due to to its open ending and
need to throw in new-age pop-culture references in order to warrant its
return. That being said, some of the forced pop-culture references feel
out of place and lead to some pretty terrible dialogue in an otherwise
well-planned film. This is where by biggest flaw with the film comes
into play. I actually thought that the overall plot of this film was
terrific, as far as this franchise goes, but some of the dialogue
really had me cringing, and that's not good, because I couldn't tell if
they were trying to go for something comedic or genuinely serious.In the end, Cult of Chucky is honestly a far better film than it has
any right to be after all these years, but if you sit through all of
its predecessors before viewing it, then I believe you'll be pleasantly
surprised like I was. This movie isn't going to win anyone over who
hasn't been along for the ride in the past, but this is some solid
horror flare that demands some attention around this time of the year.
Now available for rent and streaming, I highly recommend this film if
you're a fan of the genre. Newcomers need to be weary of the tone that
these movies go for.
