5
Great story, bad execution by the director. 5/10

Review: This is another one of those movies, which has an amazing true
story as the backdrop but the director failed to execute it well. All
of the actors gave it there all but I personally wouldn't have picked
Miles Teller to play the lead, mainly because he didn't have the
charismatic persona like the real Vinny Pazienza, who would also
frighten you if you saw him down a dark alley. Anyway, this movie
starts with Vinny losing to Roger Mayweather, and after a few loses
under his belt, his business partners decide to bring in a new trainer,
Kevin Rooney (Aaron Eckhart), who previously trained Mike Tyson. He
instantly sees potential in Vinny but he has a few bad habits, and a
cocky attitude, which he soon manages to ditch from his fighting
methods. He also makes him step up two weights in his fighting class,
because he struggles to keep the weight down, mainly because of his
lack of strict training before a fight. After winning there first belt
together, there is big plans for Vinny but he ends up in a terrible car
crash, which damages his neck. With the odds against him, and everyone
saying that he won't be fighting again, Vinny takes matters into his
own hands, and starts training in the family basement, with Kevin's
help. With screws in his head, and the danger of making his injuries
worse, Vinny and Kevin train hard, and when the screws finally come
out, he's determined to have another fight. He then hits the gym, and
his business partners manage to get him a fight against Duran, which
goes down as one of the best fights in boxing history. It is an heroic
story, which has the potential to make a great movie but the director
spent to much time on trivial moments, which made the movie drag. I did
feel for Vinny, when his head had the "halo" around it, and his courage
and determination was pretty remarkable but Miles Teller failed to
bring emotion to the project, which I mainly blame on the director. The
movie also looked like it was cheaply made, and the fight scenes seemed
a bit messy, and unexciting. Anyway, it's worth a watch, mainly because
of the amazing true story but it's definitely not in the same class as
the Rocky movies. Average!Round-Up: This movie was directed and written by Ben Younger, 44, who
also brought you Boiler Room & Prime, starring Meryl Streep & Uma
Thurman. With not that much experience behind the camera, he wouldn't
have been my first choice to bring such a great story to the big
screen, so maybe that's why it didn't go down to well with audiences.
After watching Vinny's real fights, which did leave me on the edge of
my seat, I can only hope that a top director will take on his life
story, which really does need to be told.Budget: $6million Worldwide Gross: $6.7millionI recommend this movie to people who are into their
biography/sport/dramas, starring Miles Teller, Aaron Eckhart, Katey
Sagal, Ciaran Hinds, Ted Levine and Amanda Clayton. 5/10
