5
A Thriller with Great Potential and Cast, Wasted by a Poor Screenplay and Inadequate Direction

The divorcée Rachel Watson (Emily Blunt) commutes every day to New York
by train and watches the old house where she lived with her husband Tom
Watson (Justin Theroux) through the window. Rachel is an alcoholic and
sterile woman that frequently has blackouts and shares an apartment
with her friend Cathy (Lura Prepon). Tom is married with Anna Boyd
(Rebecca Ferguson) with the baby Evie. Their babysitter is Megan
Hipwell that lives with her husband Scott (Luke Evans) in the same
neighborhood in the suburb. Rachel admires Megan and Scott since she
believes they are the perfect couple. However Megan is a promiscuous
woman that has affairs with many men including her psychiatrist Dr.
Kamal Abdic (Édgar Ramírez). When Rachel sees Megan kissing another man
on the balcony of her house, she decides to have a conversation with
Megan after drinking in a bar. However she has a blackout and awakens
with bruises in her apartment. Soon she learns that Megan is missing
and Detective Riley (Allison Janney) that is in charge of the
investigation visits Rachel to interrogate her since the neighbors had
seen an alcoholic woman wandering in the area. However Rachel does not
recall what she did that night. Rachel decides to investigate the case
and has dreadful discoveries about her life and Tom. Who might be the
killer?"The Girl on the Train" is a thriller with a good story but terrible
screenplay. The characters are not well-developed and despite the great
performance of the wonderful Emily Blunt, her character Rachel Watson
is a complete mess. Megan and Scott Hipwell, Anna and Tom Watson, and
Dr. Kamal Abdic are also one-dimensional characters. The non-linear
screenplay could be better and better, but instead of suspense and
tension, gives the sensation of a soap-opera. In the end, "The Girl on
the Train" is a film with great potential and cast but wasted by a poor
screenplay and inadequate direction. My vote is five.Title (Brazil): "A Garota no Trem" ("The Girl on the Train")
