8
Another Marvelous Showcase For Tom Hardy (and James Gandolfini's Satisfying Last Role)

Tom Hardy, since he tremendously introduced himself to moviegoers in
2008's Bronson, has been consistently building up one of the most
impressive filmographies in recent years. Like Michael Fassbender
(another exceptional actor who blew up onto the scene in the past
decade), every time he's involved in a project, chances say it will be
good. Even if it might not, you can always expect him to bring his A-
game, constantly changing accents, tones, and personalities. This man
is a chameleon actor if there ever was one. In The Drop—a tense crime
drama—he portrays a reserved bartender in Brooklyn—a bar that's a drop
spot for dirty debts and gangster meet-ups—timidly keeping to his
business and proficiently doing his duty. He works alongside James
Gandolfini who also appears to mind his own and strenuously tries to
continue pleasing the Chechen mobsters who pick up their cash deposits
from the drop every once in a while. The film is sharply edited where every shot builds further suspense
with the complement of a foreboding, eerie score. The cinematography is
intricately detailed, expecting the audience to pick up on things as
the thrilling plot advances, whether the object of interest is in the
background, foreground, or the clear focus in a close-up. The pace of
the picture never slugs down since every scene is considerably pivotal
and the twists and turns keep coming. In addition to Hardy's and Gandolfini's unsurprisingly fantastic
performances, we have a whole cast from the likes of Noomi Rapace (an
emotionally vulnerable single woman), Michael Aranov (a chilling,
dubious villain as the head of the Chechen mob who makes the viewers
anxious with his every glance and subtle threat), and Matthias
Schoenaerts (a mysterious and unstable figure) that all share the
energy of each scene they appear in. With that being said, the expected romance subplot between the two
leads calms the compelling nature of the thriller and arguably takes up
too much time even though it ties into the major plot line with its
relations (in a somewhat contrived manner, mind you). The very end also
feels like it was shoehorned in just for the sake of ending on a
positive note rather than an ambiguous/cynical one that the previous
scene, with its mesmerizing monologue, set up. The alternative would've
been a superior and fitting conclusion for the characters and the
overall narrative. On another note, many recent films have failed to deliver on the
tension they tryingly promised—films like Gravity and Captain Phillips.
Establishing tension is certainly very tricky; one can't drag scenes on
for too long, and you can't exhaust your viewers with excessive
suspense either. The two heretofore mentioned failed in that regard
while The Drop managed incredibly tight editing (efficiently
transitioning from scene to scene with a competent beat and continually
building apprehension), as well as its eccentric characters that
obviously seem emotionally unpredictable. Is this encounter going to
blow up into an execution/firefight, or will the rivals peacefully
negotiate?
