8
5th Resident Evil film... not too bad

I would like to point out that these films (based on the hit video-game
series) have been made for basically showing us zombies, lickers, and a
variety of bad ass undead getting their asses handed to them by a
smoking-hot Milla Jovovich in tight black spandex or skimpy dresses...
And that's why we love them! But the major complaint about these films
are the confusing story lines and such, people go in to see a movie
like this and wonder wtf is going on (unless you've actually seen the
first 4 films). As for Resident Evil: Retribution... I liked it, I
probably liked it almost as much as Afterlife, probably my favorite in
this series. It is very confusing at first, even for a follower of the
films like myself, but it eventually comes together and you understand
very quickly what was going on. And (I don't want to give away any of
the awesome action scenes here) after they fight through everything in
the film, they eventually join an old enemy, and clearly states without
a doubt that there will be one more, possibly final film, with the
humans taking their last stand against the mutant undead. (I am hyped!)
It's actually nostalgic watching this film because it brings in a
couple of old faces from the first three films, but it's for a reason
that'd you'd have to watch the movie to understand. And we finally get
Leon, from the games, into the movies, and it's great to see him. I'm
actually not sure who plays him as I'm typing this, but he looked fine
enough as Leon, and surprisingly had the hairstyle down too. Now the
action and undead/mutants... fantastic, some of the best the franchise
has to offer. We get a giant, mutant licker (harkening back to the
original with a licker hunting them down), soviet Russian zombies that
can actually shoot guns and ride motorcycles, a showdown with not one,
but TWO Axemen, and one sexy cat fight scene (you'll see what I mean at
the end of the movie.) Visual effects were very impressive, I would
have liked to see this in theaters in 3D, especially the genius
beginning credits when everything was playing backwards. All in all, 8
out of 10, just because the action was so damn awesome, but people get
thoroughly confused during the storyline, and that kind of brings down
the experience, but not by much. Very fun, and awesome movie if you're
just looking to see undead becoming, well, dead!
