9
Great movie--Why are critics bashing? An actually funny comedy.

Okay, critics, what the hell? I saw this movie at 7:30 at Movieland: A
Bow Tie Cinema in Richmond, VA. Great theater, props! Anyways. The
theater was packed. It was the biggest screen, too, but it was the only
showing. If the audience reaction was anything to go on, this movie was
hilarious. I certainly thought so. But not only that혰it was a good
movie! Summary aside, this movie actually turned out to be one of my favorite
romantic comedies and buddy comedies all in one. It was very
fast-paced. It had the element of government agents, but also
government agents that abuse their job's resources. There are 'bad
guys' but it doesn't dominate the movie. The scenes with the bad guys
start off with the preconception that they would be long and intense,
but were actually only 60 seconds long and just a short break between
the comedy and action. The funny parts혰yes, they were funny. I was
cracking up the entire time, and I don't do that often. Visually it
looked amazing; watching on Blu-Ray will be spectacular. I, for one,
will buy this on Blu-Ray. My roommate will thank me.Yes, young people like myself will enjoy this movie, but it's also
targeted for late twenties-late thirties people thinking about love and
marriage. I saw a lot of older couples at the theaters and they were
enjoying it just as much혰they were laughing loudest, in fact! I'd give
this movie a 9/10. Pure enjoyment.So my issue: WTF Critics? You give this movie zero credit. Is it
because of the actors? They're all great actors. Plot? Actually pretty
good혰somewhat predictable in hindsight but I'd still watch the movie
again. Director? Supernatural and Nikita both have a fanbase, and
aren't that bad with action or drama. If they actually watched the
movies they wouldn't have rated it that low; I think they were going
off plot summary. Back off, critics! When more people see this movie
the ratings will go up! Rotten tomatoes said audience enjoyed it 71% so
far, but opening day isn't even over yet. Critics give it 33%? Come on.
(From tvcinema.tumblr.com (my blog) )
