1
Uhhh...what?

I actually hadn't heard of The Counselor before a friend invited me to
see it, so I just quickly checked the one sentence synopsis at the top
of the page on IMDb. Basically, I had no expectations or knowledge
about what the movie was about or who was in it.I honestly have very little understanding of what happened in this
movie. It is one of the most confusing, disjointed films I have ever
watched. From reading about it, you can see that it has a good cast and
pretty original storyline, so what could go wrong? Believe me, what you
actually see on the screen seems to defy logic. The first 10 or 15 minutes make the most sense, relatively speaking,
but it's all downhill from there. The movie jumps from scene to scene
with little explanation or context as to what is happening or why. I
kept patiently waiting for everything I was seeing to be tied together,
but it never happens. You keep seeing the same actors in a new scene,
but there's nothing telling you what it has to do with the scene you
just watched before it.I understand films do not necessarily need to follow a linear plot;
plenty of other films have proved this to be true. However, if not
following a linear plot, there should at least be SOMETHING that tells
you how each scene is related, or at the very least a culmination at
the end which explains all the previously unanswered questions. It just
never happens. I left the theater more confused than ever, and the
friend I was with felt the same way. I don't think we even cared that
much about what happened anymore and were frankly just glad we didn't
have to watch any more.I don't know how anyone could really enjoy this movie unless they were
looking for something with no action, no plot and dialog performed by
actors who seem more bored than I was just watching the film. I
wouldn't go so far as to say it was the worst or even one of the worst
movies I've ever seen, because it very easily could have made for a
decent watch, I just have absolutely no idea what the director was
trying to do.
