8
Simon Pegg, Nick Frost, and Edgar Wright has been one of the biggest success stories of British cinema of the past decade.

The movie-making team of Simon Pegg, Nick Frost, and Edgar Wright has
been one of the biggest success stories of British cinema of the past
decade. With "Shaun of the Dead" (2004) and "Hot Fuzz" (2007), the trio
demonstrated originality, ingenuity, and most significantly, capable of
drawing a large, appreciative audience. Now they're back with the
long-awaited third movie of what's become unofficially known as the
"Cornetto trilogy." Like it's predecessors, director Edgar Wright loves
paying homage to American cinema; "Shaun" pays its respects to George
Romero, "Fuzz" nods its head to over the top action, buddy flicks, and
"World's End" takes a page from our classic American sci-fi films.In "The World's End," 20 years after attempting an epic pub-crawl, five
childhood friends reunite when one of them becomes hell-bent on trying
the drinking marathon once again. Once convinced to stage an encore by
Gary King (Simon Pegg), a 40-year- old man trapped in the mindset of
his mid 20's, drags his reluctant friends back to their hometown, and
once again attempt to reach the fabled pub - The World's End."The World's End" plays on the notion that any time you return to your
old stomping grounds, changes are inevitable. Upon returning to their
small town roots—a place so boring it boasts about having the first
roundabout in all of England—the crew notices that things are a little
strange. As it turns out, the town residents are now blue- blooded
alien robots. Pretty soon, the group of friends find they are not only
fighting to recapture who they once were, but to preserve who they are."The World's End" follows similar thematic and structural paths as the
other films in the trilogy. While it is definitely intended as a
satirical spoof on one level, it also works just as well as a fully
functional sci-fi story. You have elements of body snatching,
invasions, and more than a few overt nods to John Carpenter's classic
"They Live" (1998), in the way the aliens integrate into their society
and take over. It's satire in such a loving fashion that it comes
across as infectiously charming.If there is anything to criticize here, maybe it's that the genre is a
bit more skewered and less defined than in its predecessors. However,
"The World's End" does cap an unofficial trilogy, and the grievance is
overly critical given the nature of the movies. Long-time fans of the
trilogy will appreciate the reversal of roles, casting Pegg as the
selfish screw-up, and Frost as the one who has it together. This allows
Pegg to fully unleash his gift for gab, and for Frost to show off his
considerable skill for physical comedy.With great gags, better fights, and fan pleasing cameos, "The World's
End" is exactly the sort of British-accented, genre-blending pleasure
we've come to expect from its creative trio, and we can only anticipate
to what the future holds.
