1
The utter lack of self-awareness makes it almost funny. Almost.

So here we are. In 2016 a supposedly sympathetic character in a major
motion picture proudly says 'I am a Maoist' without any trace of irony
or doubt.I don't want to dwell on the acting, camera and other cinematic stuff.
The cast are your usual fare of beautiful Hollywood people, camera and
direction are not jarringly obvious, so they must be O.K. too. The only
problem this movie has, is the atrocious script.The premise of the movie is a family living in a kind of Thoreau-esque
paradise of unity of Man and Nature, hunting (and presumably gathering,
we are not shown this explicitly) and not having to interact with the
nasty, philistine and obese Christians inhabiting the rest of the
country.The most jarring thing about the movie it its total lack of
self-awareness. The protagonists ride through the whole thing on their
high horses without a single character pointing out the obvious flaws
in their reasoning:The basic tenor of the plot is the superiority of the enlightened
individualism to the organized religion (Christianity specifically, the
other monotheist religions are beyond pale, of course). However, the
family unit that is the central protagonist of the movie resembles a
sect tightly controlled by its charismatic leader more than any
mainstream Christian church does.In the important scene in the movie, the Father of the family
demonstrates the superiority of his education by having his small child
giving a discourse on the Bill of Rights and Citizens United verdict.
The 'normal' people are dutifully dumbfounded and ashamed of
themselves. However, it's safe guess that the children in the family
have no clue who's princess Lea, what's Facebook {or any computer
technology for that matter), they also lack basic social skills. You
can judge for yourself what kind of knowledge is useful IRL.The happy family celebrate a Noam Chomsky day after successful grocery
store heist. You can think what you want about Mr. Chomsky's policies,
but extreme individualism is hardly something that he would endorse.The proud Father snarkily comments that the 'Business of America is
business' to demonstrate the soulless nature of capitalistic society.
However, this is a quote from Calvin Coolidge, one of the presidents
with actual survival skills.Extreme individualism and survival skills is something the proud Father
boasts about to his weakling sister-in-law. However, hunting and
gathering can support about 1 person per square mile. So if USA should
revert to this way of living, about 98% of the population would have to
be eliminated.And finally and most importantly, even their small family is totally
dependent on the broader society. They don't have blast furnaces to
produce steel to create their nice hunting knifes. Practical outdoor
clothing they wear was probably manufactured in China, using
technologies and materials that were not available not even fifty years
ago. When one of the children is injured, they rush him to modern
hospital to take advantage of the state-of-the-art medical facilities.So the movie's most pervasive feature is its monumental hypocrisy.
Yeah, let the other people live their meaningless petty lives in the
thrall of multinational corporations and subjugated by organized
religion. We shall take the fruits of your labors, laugh at your
travails and feel smugly superior about ourselves.
