9
A Great Change From Marvel's Previous Movies

Like many people, I came into the theater wondering how Marvel would
make the audience care about such a little-known character with
decidedly unimpressive powers. It turns out they used the opportunity
to make one of their best movies yet.Ant-Man was not at all what I expected. I have been a fan of most of
the previous movies of the Marvel Cinematic universe, but you don't
have to be a fan of super hero movies to enjoy this movie. it has good
pacing and holds your interest throughout. There are plenty of action
and the fight scenes, but unlike the previous Marvel movies, this movie
focuses on a heist. This, along with the comedy throughout, makes it a
breath of fresh air in the Marvel universe. No Marvel movie since has
so seamlessly bonded the genre of action and comedy. The main character, Scott Lange, is not a billionaire or scientist or
ancient god, and he doesn't have super strength or intelligence; he is
a thief who deals with holding down a job and being able to see his
daughter. This makes him incredibly relatable. Being played by Paul
Rudd doesn't hurt either. Rudd, along with the rest of the cast,
delivers a memorable performance. The idea of a father trying to
reconcile his relationship with his daughter may have been used before,
but Evangeline Lilly and Michael Douglas make it work without seeming
trite or overused. The role that really stands out is Corey Stoll as
Yellowjacket. He is, in my opinion, the most terrifying villain the
Marvel universe has seen yet. He doesn't want global domination, he
wants money and power, and that makes him a very believable villain.
Stoll's performance is more three-dimensional than one might expect in
a super hero movie, and adds to the already great cast.Perhaps the most impressive part of Ant-Man was the visual effects. I
saw this movie in IMAX 3D, and the quality was stunning. I don't like
most movies in 3D, but this one worked well. The shrinking and growing
looked very good as well as the action sequences. Although the action
happens on a small scale, it can stand up to any of the other movies
Marvel has made. If you haven't seen this film yet, I would highly recommend it. The
acting, directing, and cinematography all make this film highly
enjoyable, even if you haven't seen any of Marvel's previous films.
