4
A disappointing film with very little emotional content

**WARNING: Contains plot spoilers**I don't normally write reviews but this is a case where the critics
seem to be totally disconnected from what they are supposed to be
reviewing. It is weird to see so little dissent in the press about this
film. Carol has many good points but more bad points.The good points are the amazing production design and costumes, and the
interesting 16mm cinematography (which does get quite grainy at times).
The technical side of things is fine, it looks very beautiful and
old-fashioned.The main problem is that there just isn't any emotional connection
established between the two main characters, or between anyone really.
The film doesn't make you care about people or their fates, and doesn't
explain why they would care about each other.The very first meeting between Carol and Therese highlights this. Carol
tries to seduce Therese because... well, she just does, from the very
first moment she lays eyes on her in the department store. We don't
know why, Carol has never met her before so presumably it's just
because Therese is young and pretty. We don't even see Carol reacting
to Therese's beauty, Carol just has this predatory gaze from the very
first frame, as if she was determined to find someone, anyone. How much
sympathy would we feel for a middle-aged married man doing these things
instead of Carol?Because of the way the story unfolds, it is also very hard to shake the
feeling that Carol is a rich person who is, in the end, able to get
whatever she wants.There ought to be sympathy for Carol being stuck in a dead marriage,
but she is getting divorced and already having an affair.There ought to be sympathy for Carol losing custody of her daughter
Rindy, but we never really see the mother-daughter relationship enough
to understand what this means to her. For example, in the first scene
Carol buys her daughter a train set instead of a doll in order to
impress the young shop assistant that she lusts after. We later see
Carol playing with the train set by herself while thinking of her own
problems, we never see the daughter using it. The daughter seems to be
little more than a plot device or a prop.There ought to be sympathy for gay lovers being parted by a bigoted
1950s society, but we never really see them as lovers. We see them make
love, but there isn't really a scene where they display any kind of
chemistry or deep affection. They come together because... well, they
just do. To make matters worse, they split up almost as soon as they
have got together, so we don't really get the time to feel anything
significant has been lost.The saddest part is when Carol dumps Therese so she can go to fight for
her daughter's custody, but then when, thanks to her lawyer's
manoeuvrings, Carol has a realistic chance of getting joint custody of
her daughter, she waives her rights to it. Why? Because it means she
can avoid the hassle of a nasty court case. How deep can Carol's love
for Rindy or Therese really be if these are her priorities? And why
tell us that the custody of Rindy means so much, more than her love for
Therese, and then show her abandoning custody? Perhaps the novel
explains why this makes sense, but the film certainly doesn't.The two hour running time should have been long enough to get proper
emotional connections built up, but instead the director squanders it
on overextended scenes that should have been much shorter. It makes the
whole film drag on without any character development.At one point Carol's husband Hodge has a door slammed in his face, it
ends on a nice shot of his partially-covered features, but it then goes
on to show him walking away from the house, getting in a car and
driving off. Extending the scene didn't serve any purpose, we know he's
annoyed and isolated but he's been annoyed and isolated for the entire
film. Another example has Carol and Therese arriving in a hotel, they
enter the lobby, they enter the room, they admire the room and then...
it cuts to them leaving the hotel. What did we learn about them from
this? That they enjoy the decor of expensive hotels? Wouldn't, for
example, adding a scene earlier in the film showing Carol doing nothing
but playing with her daughter Rindy been a better way to build up the
emotional stakes?"Carol" seems to be the kind of film where the subject matter and the
reputation of the participants has totally replaced objective
assessment of the work itself.Gay rights are important, Blanchett is a great actor and Haynes is a
great director. "Carol" is not an important or great film though, it's
telling the story of an affair without telling us why the affair
happened or why we should care. Its reviews seem to be based on what
"Carol" should have been, rather than what it actually is.
