9
American Sniper Review

My Thoughts:You would think that we would get tired of these war movies depicting
life over in Iraq and Afghanistan but when they come together in a
movie this good it is easy to see why we keep coming back for more.
This is easily one of Clint Eastwood's best directed movie. And then we
come to Bradley Cooper, he has always been a face in Hollywood but I
think this movie shows that he has some serious acting chops. I know he
was a Hollywood A lister before but this movie shows that he is more
than just a pretty face to look at when he is on screen. I would like
to see him in more of these drama type roles. Even though I did like
him as Rocket from Guardians of the Galaxy.We follow Chris Kyle's life starting with a brief glimpse of how he
grew up and what he did before joining the Navy and the SEALs. We then
follow Chris through Basic Underwater Demolition/SEALs (BUDs) training.
To him finding and marrying Taya (Sienna Miller). But what this movie
really focuses on is the time Chris Kyle spends between four tours of
duty in Iraq to the time spent between them at home. Chris seems to
thrive while over in Iraq, he is in his element and knows what needs to
get done. Chris is in a war between himself and an Iraqi Sniper that
wants the glory of taking down the Legend that Chris Kyle has become
over there. When at home though he is faced with a family he barely
knows and trying to get reacquainted with them, too dealing with the
mundane day to day life.I am sure there is some things that the movie doesn't portray correctly
be it due to the missions still being classified or to wanting to
protect some of those people that are still active and out there
protecting us. But the movie does capture what it is to be a man going
off to fight a war in another country and then trying to come home and
dealing with not only with your day to day life but also trying to put
behind the war. Luckily in this day and age Veterans do have avenues to
get help and work through it. And Chris once he got his feet under him
was an advocate of trying to help those returning Veterans get a hold
on reality and get back to living that normal life they had before
going of to war.This movie is an emotional roller-coaster and is going to take you on a
journey. So be prepaid to have your heart strings pulled and maybe a
Kleenex or two with you when you see this. Especially if you are like
me and did not know Chris Kyle's story before seeing this movie.My Recommendation:A Must See.
