7
Worth watching but could have been lots better

I think the main problem with this movie is a loose focus. It seems
like they tried to make a disaster, drama and documentary stories at
the same time but failed to develop any of that properly. But the good
things first: stunning scenery, overall tension and a few really great
scenes make this movie worth watching without a doubt. It is just
somehow not working as a single piece. With a fast start you expect
some eventful action to follow but there's nothing like that. The
characters developing is limited to a couple of sentences excluding Rob
Hall and Beck Weathers what makes others a little more than forgettable
'guys who die first'. For some reason, Scott Fisher, being a smart
capable mountaineer is shown as a careless hippie-like person, Anatoli
Boukreev as a cliché tough Russian playing garmon in a tent, Beck
Weathers as a hardly-realistic guy from Texas. But it doesn't matter
anyways as when the masks put on it's really hard to follow who is who
and and their position on the mountain, especially on descending. The
whole day of May 11 is clumsy and hardly could be learned from the
movie, on the summit the story switches to Rob completely and gets
distractingly touchy-feely then slowly turning into the aftermath. The
drama feels a bit out of place when other participants dying with
little or no attention. I was disappointed. The most vivid scene of the
movie turned out to be shown in the trailer (crevasse ladder). Another
Beck Weathers scene was really powerful too, but otherwise I didn't
feel the pressure of surviving, the height itself (the stormy clouds
could be seen from 2000 as well), an incredible effort to even try to
step on that track.Andre Bredenkamp writes about Everest climb: "You get completely
disorientated. I had to keep reminding myself I was climbing a
mountain. Every step of the way I had to try to motivate myself. At
that altitude I took at least 10 to 15 breaths each time I moved one
foot."So if you really want to feel the height I would rather recommend to
read the books about that night as this movie failed to show it
properly.
