7
A gloomy but fascinating illustration of the instinctive brutality of humanity's will to survive.

As a species, us humans have a curious fondness for grim and gloomy
art. From skull tattoos to death metal bands, there is an unrelenting
fascination with the macabre and morbid, and films are no exception.
It's surprisingly difficult to recall a genuinely gloomy film which
didn't get inexorable approval. From the true life horrors of Hotel
Rwanda and The Elephant Man through to the fictional bleakness of The
Road, Nil by Mouth and Tyrannosaur, there is something peculiarly
fascinating about watching unrelenting despair and observing the
malevolence of humanity on the big screen.Intentionally set in an undefined year of the near future in an
indeterminate part of the world, the human population has grown
exponentially to the point of saturation; food is at a premium and from
the movies sporadic intimations, society has regressed back to packs of
hunter/gatherers. The survivalist (as we never learn his true name) has
managed to create a small farmstead in the middle of a dense wood just
large enough to keep himself self-sufficient. When mother and daughter
couple Kathryn (Fouere) and Milja (Goth) appear at his door asking for
food and shelter, the survivalist's controlled unaccompanied existence
is threatened as his morals become confused; to keep himself safe or to
assist his visitor's needs.A sound method to keep costs low when producing a movie is to isolate
the action to a restricted area, keep the number of actors limited and
construct a simple and focused story line. The risk with this technique
is that the movie becomes more of a theatrical production where each
moment becomes intensified and less freedom is given to
procrastination. It is unsurprising therefore that the lead character
is given to an actor with an education in walking the boards. The film
devotes a significant amount of time to building McCann's character,
devoid of dialogue and with extensive intense close ups.Due to the utter desperation of The Survivalist's plot, it requires
total commitment to its audience and at times starts to meander yet
manages to pull itself back every time just before the bleakness
becomes tiresome.There are enough plot and character surprises to keep the movie
interesting, the acting is excellent and the limited scope of
environment constantly feels claustrophobic but never artistically
restrictive. The Survivalist demonstrates the way, once the whiteboard
of social acceptability has been wiped clean, intimacy and sex become
acceptable tradeable commodities.The Survivalist is grim, depressing and about the least life- affirming
film you're likely to see this year. Yet it is tense, wonderfully acted
and a fascinating illustration of the instinctive brutality of
humanity's will to survive.
