2
How can this have so many talented actors and be this bad?

I am a huge fan of the original and I was thrilled when the cast was
announced. I'm a big fan of Emma Watson and most of the other
supporting actors so I went in with high hopes for this. It was awful!
The CGI and auto-tuning were distracting and poorly done. On the
subject of auto-tune- why did they insist Emma Watson do her own vocals
when she clearly wasn't up to the task? Several other numbers, notably
"Gaston" and "Be our Guest" fell flat. None of the charm or warmth of
the original.The performances were another issue for me which blows my mind
considering the talent propping this horrid remake up. I can't fathom
who approved the accents of Ewen Mcgregor and Emma Thompson. They were
BAD. Emma Watson's performance was not what I expected from her. It was
like she was trying but missing the mark time and again. Her Belle is
condescending at times, bland in others, and overall forgettable.
**spoiler** When Gaston and the beast have their fight,in this version
instead of stabbing beast in the back, Gaston shoots him unexpectedly
like twice. Emma Watson's "reaction" to this is a prime example of my
above complaints. She doesn't seem shocked, sad, NOTHING. She waits
until he's been shot a few times and has been down awhile before
changing emotion at all and even then her "sorrow" at his death is
horribly unbelievable. I could not believe this was Emma Watson
preforming in this way. The beast was eh, Lafou wasn't funny (the
theater was at no point filled with laughter. My 10 year old laughed
twice the whole time), and the servants weren't charming or at all like
their cartoon versions. I also hate that the funny back and forth
between Lumiere and Cogsworth wasn't there. The only one I enjoyed was
Luke Evans as Gaston. He was far from perfect but I think he did best
out of everyone. As I scroll through the IMDb reviews with the occasional 8 or 9, and
pages of 2's and 4's, I can't understand how the rating is a 7.8. I
give it a 2 for effort and can say with 100% certainty that I won't
ever sit through it again. Another pointless remake. Disappointing.
