8
Writing this review because I read another that was so outrageously vapid.

I read a review that said one of the main characters kills herself
because either A: she had sex and didn't enjoy it . Or B: she had sex
and enjoyed it so much she couldn't handle it. I stopped reading mid
way through that sentence. Can people really be that blind and stupid?
She killed herself because she had humiliated herself to a point she
couldn't return from.. She killed herself because of her desperation ,
she let someone really, really see that. She killed herself because her
belief systems , based on the bible , were so polarized from some need
in her, the two couldn't fit together.. She killed herself because she
found out in a really hard way, that being a good person, ( stopping to
re bury the dead ) having the heart that she did , it meant nothing in
this world. And that's all she had was heart. No one cares about that.
They all just want what they want. They want things that don't matter.
They want to feed themselves. The grave scene , was the crucible here.
I loved it when the horse went right back to the grave. " see what you
did?" " was it worth it" and that is the question this film asks. Is
having heart worth anything? Can you function here, in this world with
one? The deal is you can't. Unless you are very rich. Unfortunately
most rich people get rich by not having a heart, as so aptly
demonstrated in this film also. At some point in your life , if you've
got that heart, you're either going to have to really get comfortable
with humility, because pride will kill you. Every hero ends up a
Villain here if they don't die young. Or you are going to have to get
tough. Or you simply won't last, or you will lose your mind. It's not
really a good thing if you have assimilated successfully to this
society. That means, your ambitious, greedy, selfish and a liar. But
you also, probably don't even know that. I hated the scenes of lunacy.
I had to fast forward through them. I saw a naked baby coming out in
the snow- goodbye. Fast forward is my friend. I have my own little
babies sleeping next to me. There was no way I was going to watch
babies or children get hurt. But the reason why these scenes are in the
movie, is because it's making you make that choice. It's saying , get
tough . Of course, the polar opposite of that's spectrum is the insane
women. They went insane because they had heart and they were stuck.
They couldn't leave. They obviously weren't as brave as Miss Cuddy. She
did what a lot of people do that have too much pride , too much heart
and courage. She killed herself. Overall, I didn't enjoy this movie. It
was very hard to watch, and that's not why I watch movies. I can watch
hard movies, but what can I say, I like for there to be some soft
spots.. Some place where I get to keep my hope. There is no space for
hope in this movie. My favorite scene was him burning down the house.
Because , that's why he is the only one who lives in this movie and
isn't crazy. He has zero pride. He let's out his demons. Which , like I
said. Every hero is a villain. Just gotta live long enough. If you
haven't been a villain yet, you were never a hero.
