8
Chucky's Brilliant return with actual reasons why.

<< Contains Spoilers >>CURSE OF CHUCKY (2013) If you read my last review on SEED OF CHUCKY you
know I pretty much hated that thing. BRIDE OF CHUCKY was not much
better. CURSE OF CHUCKY (which you can actually REDBOX right now)
however has just come out and it's freaking sensational. Everything
about this movie brings back the actual horror feeling we had in the
first 2 or 3 installments (apparently I wasn't the only one feeling
they had mailed it in on this series). In this one Chucky has been
mailed from the "Evidence Department" (the Tilly's house from SEED OF
CHUCKY) to a new house that is creepy as hell. It doesn't take long
before Chucky is back to his old tricks to a much darker and creeper
tone than we have really ever seen him. Instead of a well known cast
almost everyone in this aside from Jennifer Tilly, (the original Chucky
voice and actual Charles Lee Ray and the original Andy) are mostly
unknowns. Lead actress Fiona Dourif (actual real life daughter of Brad
Dourif the dude who voices Chucky) does an incredible job along with
the rest of the cast. I can't say enough about how I enjoyed this
series finally getting back to its roots. One of the huge challenges
with this film was that it had to find a way to get back to the horror
levels of the originals but still tie in the entire series. Bring back
the original Andy (wait for the credits to roll) and Jennifer Tilly was
the icing on the cake that fans of both directions in previous films
would love. Aside from Chucky going freakin berserk at the end of
CHILDS PLAY 2, this newest installment (yeah and actual part VI, NOT A
REBOOT), is the second best film in the entire series by hundreds of
miles. Like nothing else in the series even comes close. If you find
yourself asking how the cops showed up when no one had a phone or
anything like that. There is a deleted scene called "burn" that covers
this, but for some odd reason it was left out of both cuts of the film.
For the superb casting, darker telling of the story, background
provided and just sheer thought that went into this I have to give
CURSE OF CHUCKY a solid 6 out of 7. Rating Definition - AMAZINGLY GOOD.
This movie is more than a pleasant surprise. You will buy it. You will
cry when you think about how awesome it is. If it comes on TV you will
suddenly zombify and not be able to turn the channel.
