1
Lazy, incoherent, and unsatisfying on nearly every level.

What makes things worse, is that its predecessors were basically
intricate works of genius, but TDKR lacks essentially everything that
made The Dark Knight (particularly) one of the greatest superhero
movies ever produced. On top of all this, everyone's bandwagoning on
thinking it's great because it's "supposed" to be great, right?!?! How
could Nolan's finale not be a masterpiece?! Well, I'll tell you...Bruce Wayne acts out-of-character from not just the first two movies,
but from the comic as well. Catwoman's motivation and place in the
story is weak, flat, and forced. For a movie that's almost three hours
long, you only get about 20 minutes of Batman in costume (if you're
lucky). The movie jumps in weird time increments that are mildly
confusing, but mostly forced to facilitate its wanna-be epic nature. As for more heavily SPOILERY observations...Commissioner Gordon is barely in the movie, spending most his time
injured in a hospital, while Joseph Gordon-Levitt's character comes out
of the blue and does what you'd expect the Commissioner to be doing...
solution- COMBINE THE TWO CHARACTERS!!! The two Batman vs. Bane fights are flat and boring as hell. Bane is a
cardboard, unexplored (until a late-third act flashback... of all
ridiculous cliché plot devices) character that reaches for sympathy in
one of the most embarrassing, wanna-be-tender, totally out-of-place,
extremely laughable scenes I've ever seen in my life- HE FRIGGIN'
CRIES?!!?!? Every single, yes EVERY SINGLE cop in Gotham marches down into the
sewers on a tip that Bane's raising a secret army, only to have all the
entrances blown up so they can be trapped down there... for like three
months. Reread that last sentence and tell me what part of it makes
sense.Bane holds Gotham hostage with a 4 megaton nuclear device, after
blowing up all but one bridge leading into and out of the city, for
three months and the U.S. government does nothing. Seriously, nothing.
It's said they negotiated a truce and had FEMA send in supplies for
survival. Read that last paragraph and tell me what part of it makes
sense.The "real" villain reveals him/her self in an absurd Act 3 "twist"
that's followed by a narrated flashback (the same one that leads to
Bane CRYING), and throughout the entire monologue Batman sits there
doing nothing after a knife has been thrust/held into his side.After the 2nd lame Bats/Bane fight, the bulk of the late Act 3rd
"action sequence" consists of little more than Batman flying around in
that weird-looking clunky flying thing that supposed to be the Bat
Plane- half of which is of him outmaneuvering missiles that the bulky
"plane" couldn't have possibly eluded.I really, really, really, really, really, really wanted to not just
like this, but LOVE it, but as it progressed the enthusiasm cloud
gradually cleared to the point of my being utterly flabberghasted in
disappointment- mostly because I can't believe the director of The Dark
Knight and the masterpiece that is Inception was responsible for this
movie. It's lazy and uninspired to the point of being offensive to
everyone who's ever been not just a Batman fan, but a fan of non-
intelligence-insulting movies.
