5
A Rough Night For This Reviewer

Bachelorette parties, a sacred ritual to help a young woman transition
from single life into the world of marriage. Of course, like most
things, modern traditions have adulterated with new traditions and
rituals that leads for a rather "exciting" night. So why not make
another movie about it. Tonight, my friend and I hit the theater to
cover the latest comedy to "grace" the big screen entitled Rough Night!
What does this obviously titled film have in store for us? As always,
please read on to find out and help determine whether or not it is
worth your money to hit the theater. So what do you get? For once the trailers were pretty spot on with
their portrayal of this movie. Rough night is a very raunchy,
simplistic, and over the top comedy that has little sustenance outside
of the attempt at humor. It's ridiculousness at times is clever, but
these moments are few and far between, buried under the comedy rubble
that fills this movie. Aggressive innuendos come rushing out of the
woodwork, many delivered in the overdramatic manner that somehow seems
to be popular and entertaining to many. The all-star cast assembled to
for this film are okay, dropping their dynamic acting range for
superficial roles filled with cursing and satire. Lazy writing also
doesn't help sell the comedy factor, primary thanks to the consistent
cursing, shouting of the male genitalia, overzealous drug use, and
cringe worthy catchphrases. Kate Mickinnon is able to salvage some
parts of the film with her usual tricks, working the Australian accent
with her pizazz and spot-on timing. Story wise, nothing special here. Rough Night's plot is about 80%
revealed in the trailers and there is little surprise left for you in
the audience. Some of the more adult moments will be the eye widening
magic you are seeking, but again these are often awkward uncomfortable,
or unnecessary. Still the movie's tale had some surprising character
development and a nice twist thrown into the mix to help keep things
dynamic. The morals hit close to home on some level, but again are
robbed by another bout of stupidity. I know, you aren't there for the
character developments and rugged plot, but other comedies have learned
to balance things and that is where this movie fails. In the end though here are my likes and dislikes: LIKES: • Kate McKinnon • Good, upbeat soundtrack • Short Run Time •
More dynamic storylineDISLIKES: • Incredibly stupid • Excessive cursing • Aggressive humor •
Trailers Ruined most of the movie • Inappropriate at many times •
Shallow story • Annoying characters • Dropped plots • Overacting •
Limited target audienceTHE VERDICT:It's nice to see a movie fit the expectations set by the advertising,
but it's sad that this is a form of entertainment. Rough night fails to
find balance and resorts to cheap parlor tricks known as adult humor.
Sure there are clever components (primarily thanks to the boyfriend and
Kate), but even they can't save the movie from the monotonous laziness
that is to come. kWhy must it be overacted? I don't know, but
nevertheless this movie failed on many accounts. Recommended audience
members include bachelorettes, girls nights out, or fans of one of the
cast. For the rest though, skip this movie until it darkens the library
of Netflix. My scores are:Comedy: 5.5 Movie Overall: 3.0
