8
Great Story, Excellent Performances

After being diagnosed with HIV, electrician Ron Woodroof (Matthew
McConaughey) learns he only has 30 days left to live. After getting an
illegal supply of AZT, Ron finds that this isn't doing anything to help
him. Eventually fleeing to Mexico, Ron learns of and begins to take a
particular drug that hasn't been approved in the U.S. When he finds
that this drug is improving his health, Ron sees an opportunity. After
smuggling the drugs across the border, Ron, and another HIV patient
named Rayon (Jared Leto) begins selling the drug to other citizens with
the virus. During the process, Ron battles the medical field and the
law in order to prove how beneficial his buyer's club is.Based on the true story of the real Ron Woodroof, Dallas Buyers Club
follow one man's actions on his mission to survive and how he started a
revolution in a time when HIV/AIDS was a major issue. The story itself,
not only is interesting, but it doesn't contain a dull moments. It
filled with dramatic elements with dashes of comedic moments. It also
features characters that we come to find ourselves close to. Every one
of which gets their own time to shine. The film does jump around quite
a bit, but it does so for the sake of the story and the events that are
to come, and through every major point in Woodroof's life and battle
with HIV.Among the cast is Matthew McConaughey who easily gives the performance
of his career as the blunt and clever Ron Woodroof. McCoaughey conveys
different aspects of Woodroof with such ease. There are moments where
he portrays Woodroof as being tough as nails, but then he can instantly
shift gears into his emotional side. The comic relief aspects also come
off completely natural. Jennifer Garner stars as Woodroof's female
doctor friend Eve Saks. Garner does a fine job of giving off her charm
as she always does, but with this performance we see the conflict her
character is battling between her career and doing what is right. But
the one actor who stands out the most is Jared Leto as the
cross-dressing Rayon. Leto provides not only a lot of the major comic
relief, but he also brings the heart of the story. We are shown Rayon
as this carefree, happy-go-lucky character, but eventually we are shown
just deeply affected this disease brings him emotionally, and Leto
brings all of this to the table flawlessly.Dallas Buyers Club is completely deserving of all of its Oscar buzz.
From its powerful story, to its outstanding performances by the two
leading males. Whether or not it is or isn't nominated for the 2014
Oscars, it is a film that has to be seen.My Rating: 8/10
