7
Yeehaa ... The Seven notorious cowboys ride again ...

"If God didn't want them to be sheared, he wouldn't have made them
sheep." Anyone who made an effort to read one of my writings, knows about my
opinion on remakes and milestones in film history. I'm not a supporter
of digging out hit movies from the past, dusting them off and giving
them a new look. In most cases nothing new will be presented. In the
worst case the result will fail terribly and the final product is a
lamentable bad movie. "Ghosbusters" was such a monstrosity in my
opinion and confirmed my assertion that certain milestones are
untouchable in film history (I'm afraid the remake of "Jumanji" will
end up in that same alley). However, there are exceptions like the
recent film "The Jungle Book". Although this is not a remake in the
strictest sense of the word, but rather an adaptation of a cartoon.I'm not claiming that this version of "The magnificent seven" surpasses
the original film from 1960. The original black and white version is
and will always remain a monument. Actually, you can compare this movie
with the remake of "Robocop". Broadly speaking there are similarities,
but subtle changes make it a more contemporary version. As with
"Robocop", you shouldn't compare it too much with the classic version.
Because of a few reinterpretations and a flashy new look it's accurate
to say that it's more a "restyling" and not a "remake". What are the
similarities? Again there's a community being oppressed and exploited
by a power-hungry villain. This time it's not about Mexican farmers
whose much needed harvested food is being stolen by a Mexican gang.
This time it's an ordinary town where the inhabitants have to dig for
gold in a mine and they are subjected to pressure by a fierce, crazy
tyrant (Peter Sarsgaard) so they would sell their property for a
handful of dollars. And once again those desperate inhabitants rely on
seven mercenaries who, apparently without hesitation, volunteer to
assist the residents to defend themselves against the oppressors. Of
course the seven gunslingers are exceptionally talented shooters and
the gang bandits are as stupid as an ass. As a result these ruffians
are slaughtered en masse. And also the fact that one of the heroes
takes on the role of a coward, just as Robert Vaughn did in the 1960
version, is a striking similarity.The main distinction is made by the seven gunfighters. A jumble of
rough men from different cultures. This way it became a politically
correct film. An African-American (Denzel Washington), a Mexican
(Manuel Garcia-Rulfo), an Indian (Martin Sensmeier) and a Chinese
(Byung-Hun Lee) ensured the diversity of origins. In addition, they get
the company of a woodsman (Vincent D'Onofrio) whose weight probably
transcends his intellect effortlessly. And a womanizing cowboy (Chris
Pratt) who manages to hit a target without a problem despite his
drinking problem. But overall, this is nothing more than an
action-packed western that entertained me immensely. I can't say it was
boring. After the introduction of the main characters, one by one
joining the select group, and the preparations for the big
confrontation, it's time for a comprehensive firefight, using a
considerably large amount of dynamite, producing an immense rain of
bullets and a Gatling gun as an apotheosis. The ruthless seven are
being assisted by the motivated farmers with Emma Cullen (Haley
Bennett), a resident who imposed herself the task to look for help, as
the leading force."The magnificent seven" was an entertaining film. Afterwards I could
feel that youthful, boyish desire again. Once again I wished I had
grown up in that period as a tough cowboy. Or I'd be such a rebellious,
dusty gunslingers who shoots his opponents calmly and coolly during a
gunfight. Perhaps the end was a bit overdone and the different
characters weren't extensively developed. But as a spectacle it was
unsurpassable. If you're looking for untruths or plot holes, you'll
probably find them I suppose. But you have to admit that they have
remained faithful to the greatest lie used in almost all Westerns. And
that's about the shooting qualities of a cowboy. In the real Wild West
even the best gunslinger couldn't hit a solid, thick oak. Even if they
were standing ten meters from it. The moment you start realizing that,
you better stop watching Western movies.More reviews here : http://bit.ly/1KIdQMT
