8
Likable, believable characters make this a realistically funny, intense and emotionally gripping cop movie.

When I actually sit down and think about it, there aren't many good
movies about your average, every day police officer. There are a couple
notable television series', like "Hill Street Blues" and the now dated
but oddly fascinating reality series "Cops", but on film, these guys
don't get a lot of luck. I guess everyone would rather see movies about
undercover officers or detectives. Well for anyone like me who's been
waiting for it, here it is. End Of Watch, an excellent take on the
genre. It may not be perfect, but it's unique and shows the day to day
life more effectively than most if any cop movies I've seen, and as
such I think it will one day be essential viewing for fans of the
genre.In the film we meet Brian Taylor, an ex-marine working as a police
officer while he works his way through law school. He also just so
happens to be taking a class in filmmaking and is filming his
experiences to make a documentary for said class, and this is where we
get much of our view into the film from. Featured frequently in the
film is his partner Mike, often called Z. After stumbling upon a
drug-lord at a routine traffic stop, they quickly fall into trouble
with the cartel and have to fight their way through it while still
trying to figure out where it's all coming from.The great thing about this mockumentary/found footage style isn't so
much the way it's able to present the action of being a cop
realistically (which it does but so do normally shot movies), but it
better gives us an understanding of what happens inbetween the action.
Being a fly on the wall in the various dull, inappropriate, and often
times hilarious conversations the two have when patrolling brings the
film a much needed dose of comic relief, but the kind that never feels
forced. It's all set up naturally. This really gives a chance for stars
Jake Gyllenhaal and Michael Pena to shine as well as they fit so
naturally into these characters, often sounding unscripted whether or
not they are. They play them as regular guys instead of complex
characters which may make them a little less compelling, but all the
more fun to watch.The film also mixes in a variety of other video sources from the
dashboard cams of the police cruisers to security cameras. This really
benefits the style as a whole. 99% of the time, using the self-shot,
found footage for an entire film can come off as gimmicky and
unnecessary, but by using a variety of sources the director is able to
keep the realistic tone consistent while downplaying the gimmick idea
and instead choosing to use Brian's self shot footage and monologues to
the camera only when they prove most effective to the story.Along the way the film is also interspersed with subplots of Brian
meeting his new girl Janet, played by Anna Kendrick who makes a
memorable impression despite her little screen time, as well as Z and
his wife having a baby. While I find it hard to really complain about
Anna Kendrick (she's just so damn cute! And she looked stunning on
stage introducing the film), these subplots, while important for
character development, are thrown in a little too randomly throughout
and mess with the overall flow of the film. It's not a huge complaint
as I've seen it done worse in other movies, but it could've been solved
with some tighter editing. But who knows, this was the premiere I saw,
studios still often tweak movies before wide-release.Fortunately for writer/director David Ayer, this is really the only
complaint I have about the film. The entire movie is fairly well
written. I did find the dialogue of a lot of the street thugs to be
cliché and racially stereotypical, but the things Brian and Z say are
priceless throughout and help you deal with a lot of the more serious
scenes, and there are quite a few of them. For as entertaining and
light-hearted as it is at times, End Of Watch has many dark, brutally
violent, and emotionally impacting scenes that are not for the feint of
heart. They do ultimately seem necessary though as the film needs
action to keep it going, and to create the realistic document of day to
day police life it's trying to create, which does get pretty brutal
sometimes despite the mostly mundane times in between. The important
thing though is that the film is able to balance all of these moments
so well.David Ayer has dedicated what seems to be his whole career to police
movies. Most are mediocre to bad (Street Kings), some are genre
classics (Training Day), but I think End Of Watch is by far his finest.
It easily has the most likable characters, and as such the most
emotional involvement for the audience, which thus creates the most
tension in the high risk, action scenes. It has the most believable
story of any of his movies, or most cop movies for that matter, and
lastly it just told in an interesting way. Neither the cop story, found
footage action or fly on the wall comedy genres are anything new, but
End of Watch takes old ideas and fits them together to make something
interesting.In conclusion, it's tough to go wrong with End Of Watch if you're a fan
of the genre. Even if you're not particularly fond of cop movies, I'd
still recommend it. It's a highly entertaining, tension filled ride of
a movie. It may not be as deep as some other movies coming out now, but
it really brings you into another world well. It's well written, well
directed, well acted, and was well enjoyed by the whole crowd. Check it
out.
