10
I really enjoyed the film because it's about rebellion and fighting the system and powers that be.

'DALLAS BUYERS CLUB': Five Stars (Out of Five)Another likely Oscar contender is this biographical drama film starring
Matthew McConaughey as an electrician/rodeo bull rider, named Ron
Woodroof, who contracted AIDS (in Dallas in 1985) and started a
business supplying many other victims of the deadly disease with the
(unapproved) medication they needed. The film co-stars Jared Leto,
Jennifer Garner, Steve Zahn and Denis O'Hare and was directed by
Jean-Marc Vallée. It was written by Craig Borten and Melisa Wallack and
is based on a 1992 article, published in 'The Dallas Morning News', by
Bill Minutaglio. McConaughey and Leto are almost guaranteed to get
Oscar nominations (for 'best lead' and 'supporting' actor) and they
deserve to. The film is a bit more of a long shot for 'best picture'
but it's possible and would deserve that prestigious recognition as
well. The film begins in Dallas in 1985 when Ron Woodroof (McConaughey) is
told by doctors, while seeing them about a work injury, that he is HIV+
and only has 30 days left to live. Ron originally doesn't believe them
because he, like many at the time, believed only homosexuals contracted
the HIV virus. He's also extremely homophobic and outraged at the
diagnosis (which he sees as an insult). After he learns more about HIV
(and AIDS) he begins taking AZT (which he obtains illegally) but it
only worsens his condition. He then travels to Mexico and meets Dr.
Vass (Griffin Dunne) who gives him the information and alternative
medication (which is unapproved in the US) he needs to prolong his life
and stay somewhat healthy. Woodroof then starts a business in the US
supplying the medicine and vitamins to others, with the help of another
AIDS patient he meets in the hospital (Leto). The FDA goes to war with
him over this. I really enjoyed the film because it's about rebellion and fighting the
system and powers that be. In this case the system is the big business
of the FDA and pharmaceutical companies, who are always purposefully
keeping helpful medication from people in need in order to improve
their profits. I also like movies with unlikeable characters that grow
and learn throughout their journeys and become better people that not
only end up helping themselves but many others as well. That's what
Woodroof did; he started out only interested in money but ended up
really wanting to help others. McConaughey is great in the film (in one
of his best performances) and so is Leto. Garner is surprisingly good
as well. The writing and directing is topnotch and it's just a very
moving and inspiring film. One of the year's best for sure!Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VljRGPnGo0s
