4
A poor vehicle to show off Diaz's (acting) talents

Cameron Diaz is someone that must be so, SO depressing for many
middle-aged women. Bursting onto the screen like a shimmering vision of
hotness in "The Mask" when only 21 she then appeared as a highly
believable high-school student 4 years later in "There's Something
about Mary". Now SIXTEEN years after that in "Sex Tape" the 42-year old
Diaz again plays - in a flashback scene - her character Annie as a
semi-naked college student - still with a gravity-defying body that
seems to refuse to age. There IS something about Diaz! Sex Tape taps into the general truism that "nobody understand The
Cloud" with a storyline that is, I believe, quite novel. Married couple
Annie and Jay (Diaz and Jason Segel), generally battered by life and
parenthood, try to revive their flagging sex-life by making a home-made
porn movie on Jay's new iPad. This private adventure in movie-making is
meant to be deleted immediately afterwards: easy come, easy trash. Unfortunately this is where the Cloud steps in, since the new iPad
synchronises all new music and videos to storage in the Cloud using an
app delightfully called 'Frankensynch'. However it then simultaneously
also synchs the material down to all Jay's previously owned iPads. For
reasons of utter geekdom, and showing far too much of the excess of
American consumerism, Jay gets each and every new model of iPad that
comes out which means there are a significant number of old models that
have been gifted to friends, family and business associates of the
couple.This modern and topical set-up leads to scenes of classic farce as
Annie and Jay desperately try to retrieve all copies of the video
before it can destroy their reputation and particularly the hopes of
selling Annie's squeaky-clean 'motherhood' blog to the equally
squeaky-clean 'Piper Brothers' corporation, headed by Hank Rosenbaum
(Rob Lowe).The film should be commended for the premise of its novel story by Kate
Angelo. However, in terms of the screenplay and the execution by
director Jake Kasdan ("Bad Teacher"), the movie is extremely lumpy and
uneven.True that there are some laugh-out loud moments in the film. One in
particular with an Alsatian and iPhone's 'Siri' - whilst strongly
plagiarising similar scenes in "Something about Mary" and "Father of
the Bride" - is still a crackingly funny sequence. However other parts
of the film are weighed down with tediously lengthy dialogue between
Annie and Jay about the meaning of love and sex in their relationship
and these just seems to kill the momentum of both the film and the
comedy. The scene outside Rosenbaum's house is a case in point. In addition, the character U-turn by Harrison Holzer's Howard and the
whole scene at the internet IT shop - with Jack Black, the friendly
face of porn - is lame and nonsensical.Diaz, having fully demonstrated her comedic talents throughout her
career, is great in this film and Segel has his moments, although is
perhaps a bit of an acquired taste. Rob Corddry ("Hot Tub Time
Machine") and Ellie Kemper ("The (US) Office") are also very funny as
the best friends brought into the secret and suitably spicing up their
own sex life as a result.But once again (as in "Behind the Candelabra") it is Rob Lowe who
steals the show as the outrageously ego-centric and manic Rosenbaum.
The paintings around his house depicting himself inserted into classic
Disney scenes are hilarious: I'd pay to see a sequel of "Meet the
Rosenbaums".As you might guess from the title, the film is very rude with a good
deal of nudity, sex and bad language. But more disturbing to me was the
casual encouragement to partake in hard drugs (cocaine in this case),
depicted as both 'cool' and something that the lead character Annie
would "like to try again". I have never taken drugs, and never intend
to, which probably puts me in a minority of the population these days!
But unless films are based around drug use/taking and display the
negative and destructive sides of their use, my firm view is that they
should NOT appear in films in such a trivialising manner. Drugs destoy
lives. The fact that this film only has a (UK) certification of '15' I
find staggering: censors... just say "no".In summary: great concept, with great potential, but poorly executed.(If you enjoyed this review, please check out my other reviews on
bob-the-movie-man.com, and sign up to "Follow the Fad". Thanks!).
