1
#11 All-Time. . .Seriously?

The universe is full of fascinating facts. It's mind-bending to
contemplate, for example, the awesome size of our galaxy. Light travels
186,000 miles per second and yet it takes 100,000 years for a single
beam of light to cross the entire Milky Way Galaxy. And our galaxy, to
quote Carl Sagan, is only one among billions and billions. The vastness
of space truly is stunning.But thanks to a "worm hole" the folks in Interstellar leave the Milky
Way in a cosmic snap of the fingers. And yet, having just achieved this
most amazing of all feats, our heroes are pretty much bored to tears.
Instead, everybody is more concerned with some father/daughter
relationship that wasn't developed in the first place.Look, if you're going to make a movie that purports to explore the
fascinating mysteries of the universe, then do it! Have some wonderment
in the story. Dazzle me not only with visuals, but with amazement at
the astonishing scope of our universe. And why not produce a script
that obeys the laws of astrophysics, or at least some theories thereof?This movie takes something that would dwarf the Apollo lunar missions
and turns it into some ridiculous "Plan A/Plan B" tediousness. I
suggest instead watching "Through the Wormhole" with Morgan Freeman or
re- watching "2001: A Space Odyssey." Heck, even "Contact" with Jodie
Foster is far more entertaining and imaginative than Interstellar. And yet. . .9.2 stars!I'm not saying 10-star reviews on this site are phony; after all, major
film critics also are raving about Interstellar. Unfortunately, I find
most professional film critics about as credible as the physics in this
movie.Frankly, Interstellar is a boring movie! And if that puts me in the
vast minority of reviewers, fine, I can live with that. Because I have
minimum standards when I pay $11 for admission and $8.50 for large
popcorn.Stay home and read a good book instead, or just gaze out at the night
sky and reflect on our amazing universe.
