10
A dark, bleak masterpiece about predators - 10/10

Don't believe the bad reviews here: If you love intelligent, really
dark gangster movies, this is definitely one to see.It's so sinister it hurts - but not in an "in your face" way, but
gradually. McCarthy has written a piece about predators (very eloquent
predators - the dialogs, or rather monologues, are a thing of real
beauty). And don't let anyone tell you they are not good because nobody
talks like this. This is not the point of this movie, anyone who wants
a realistic, mindless action thriller is in the wrong movie. These are
dark poetic gems, perfectly brought to life on the big screen.The plot is merciless. There's no relief (some great comic relief
moments aside, but they leave the viewers as puzzled as the characters
in those scenes), the violence is shot in a way that shows you what
violence is (it hurts, it's terrible, there is nothing noble about it).The predators (and this is maybe the main theme of this movie) triumph
all the way, to the point where it almost physically hurts. Diaz is
perfect as the ice cold greedy killer (in big cat tattoos), this is, in
my humble opinion, her best work ever. As viewers, we are left as
baffled by the predators' moves as are the many innocent bystanders we
see again and again (in restaurants, on the streets, in Mexican bars).There are, however, many people with redeeming qualities (if you know
and like McCarthy's work, think the ending of "The Road"). This is
where the word "counselor" clearly becomes ironic: He does not counsel
anyone, he just listens, he gets counsel throughout the movie. And even
all the predators (only Diaz is purely evil beyond redemption) have
good counsel for him. He just does not listen to anyone, and that is
his downfall. Even while he really does his job as counselor, in prison
with the perfect Rosie Perez, he just receives orders. There's also the
brief, brilliant appearance of Natalie Dormer towards the end - here,
we get a brief glimpse of humanity, too. And, of course, we get it in
Laura's love (great as Diaz' opposite: Penélope Cruz) - doomed, because
the counselor cannot listen.Acting was very, very strong throughout. And visually, the whole thing
is a feast, too. Not just because Scott knows what he's doing in every
scene. Whoever chose the settings and clothing should get an award, it
was just perfect in every way.
