7
An Old Recipe Prepared Well

I got to attend an early screening of Marshall tonight. I'm interested
to see how critics react. I have a feeling many of them will object to
the "paint-by-numbers" approach to the film. While we have not seen
Thurgood Marshall represented much in film, it does feel like we've
seen this movie more than once before. But that isn't really the point.
I've eaten spaghetti and meatballs hundreds of times before. I still
enjoy it each time, the same dish, so long as it is made well. And
Marshall, while not reinventing any wheels, is made well. Chadwick
Boseman leads a terrific cast that includes Josh Gad, Dan Stevens,
James Cromwell, Kate Hudson and Sterling K. Brown. Everyone is there to
give this very important true story some depth and weight. At the same
time, the screenplay never gets too caught up in its own
self-importance. While some very dark themes and tragic events are
present, there is a sense of humor pervading much of the film. This
makes the people and events portrayed in Marshall relatable, instead of
feeling like we're watching a group of untouchable, stoic historical
figures. Marshall isn't designed to inspire anger or guilt, instead it
encourages us to examine examples of unity that have been used to
overcome struggle. It has more in common with films like The Help or
Hidden Figures, than more aggressive films like Detroit (though that
film is very intense and impressive). I would say Marshall will play
out just as well at home as it does in a theater, but there is
something about seeing it with a crowd that in this case adds to the
experience. The gasps of the audience when an atrocity is displayed,
the clapping when a bigot loses his/her battle-it is a good film to
enjoy with an audience. From a technical standpoint, the film does not
go out of its way to impress. The cinematography, costume and
production design, music, editing-all seems serviceable if not
particularly memorable. In this case its the story and the figures it
portrays that you'll remember. 7/10.
