7
A very smart, funny, and inspiring work from one of Comic Books eccentric minds

OK I'm not going to say a whole lot but I'm short: I really like this
one.Even if, by design, it looks like an unexceptional biopic by each
fricken frame, the characters and dialogue more than make up for it.
The story is centered around William Moulton Marston who - and I'm not
kidding here - is 1. The inventor of the lie detector, 2. a radical
progressive feminist that thinks women are the superior race with proof
in the form of his psychological research 3. One of which include
bondage (seriously) 4. Manages to have 2 wives who loved and lived
together and 5. Used all his fixations and progressive ideals to invent
Wonder Woman.I mean hell! You could tell me if this guy could turn water into wine
and I would believe you. The film knows how bonkers this guy is, but
presents him matter-of-factly rather than with scorn or praise. Much
like my closest film comparison THE PEOPLE VS LARRY FLINT, it's the
type of eccentric, perverse mindset that doesn't allow you to like the
man but understand and appreciate how he changed the world with his
ideals. However, the film is mostly concerned with the three-way (sorry) love
story at the center. The wife gets all the most complexity as she
struggles with her bisexuality, her suppressed opportunities based on
her gender, and the everyday family lifestyle that rejects her. It gets
deep as well as heartbreaking.Olive turns out to be the partner of the two, and easily gets more of
an arc. At first very shy and uncertain of her status in life, the film
progresses her to the free-spirited bisexuality that the movie treats
as a hopeful triumph. The best moment is when she dawns the Wonder
Woman costume in order to perform S&M ( Just bare with me, guys) and
it's presented as a sign of self-discovery rather than gratuitous
sleaze. I'm not sure if people like her would connect to this, but I
would say it's a lot more hopeful and cathartic than anything BATTLE OF
THE SEXES could ever wish to offer.Angela Robinson directs this with the type of directing chops you
expect from a run-of-the-mill miniseries rather than a movie. But much
like Patty Jenkins work with WONDER WOMAN, her limited chops is
unmatched by the utter love and conviction to the subject matter. It's
the type of film where the imperfections make the film more real and
self-confident.Professor Marston & The Wonder Women is a damn good time and the rare
biopic you rarely see anymore. Classy, funny, sexy, delightful,
brilliantly acted, and overall passionate, you have to see this!
