7
The Mothmom Possibly.

Mama is directed by Andres Muschietti and written by Muschietti,
Barbara Muschietti and Neil Cross. It stars Jessica Chastain, Nikolaj
Coaster-Waldau, Megan Charpentier, Isabelle Nelisse, Daniel Kash,
Javier Botet and Jane Moffat. Music is by Fernando Velazquez and
cinematography by Antonio Riestra.A Suicidal father abducts his two young daughters and takes them to a
cabin out in the woods, his intention is to kill them. Before he can
enact his plan he is killed by a strange entity, leaving the two girls
alone in the cabin. Years later the girls are discovered in the cabin,
completely feral and when any sense can finally be made out of them,
they talk of being looked after by someone they call Mama; And it seems
Mama has come back with them to civilisationBased on his own 2008 Argentinian short of the same name, Andres
Muschietti expands the idea out to a full length feature film. With
pretty decent results as well. Pic is a supernatural fairytale, thick
on ethereal atmosphere and not over reliant on boo jumps or an
adherence to blood and guts spilling just to put bums on seats. From
the moment the girls are found, scampering around the wood cabin on all
fours, clearly having survived on cherries for five years, there's an
uneasy feel to the story. We already know there is a spirit involved as
we half glimpsed "Mama" during the pre-credits sequence, what we need
now is a good story and a healthy quota of frights and peril for Waldau
and Chastain as they become surrogate parents to the troubled
youngsters; And again, Mama mostly delivers all that is required of it
for a good night in by the fire whilst perched on the edge of your
seat.Chastain is excellent as the punk rock chick reluctantly mothering two
children before her time, the two girls, Charpentier and Nelisse, are
also top draw, exuding the sadness and confusion that children of that
age would obviously be feeling under these circumstances. While their
reactions to what we ourselves can't see, via glances or hushed
exchanges, has a creepiness to it that delivers a bucket load of dread.
Muschietti's direction is very stylish, not only does he marshal his
principal cast members with great skill, he shows some ingenuity in
scene staging with one sequence particularly brilliant as Chastain does
housework and the younger of the girls plays with Mama in the bedroom,
we know it, even though we can only see the wee bairn. The soundtrack
and score is suitably screechy, and the cinematography by Riestra has
Gothic tints to it.Why Mama is not a bona fide entry in the upper echelons of horror is
mainly due to an annoying mistake that so many horror genre film makers
make, namely showing too much of the spook. There is a point around the
hour mark where "Mama" herself just stops being scary, a shame because
the effects work isn't half bad. There's other, less itchy problems,
such as Waldau being reduced to a bit player from the mid-point, a
sub-plot involving Kash's Dr. Dreyfuss just feels like set-up material,
while the ending is sure to be a bit too WTF for some. That said, this
is good genre cinema for those who like The Woman in Black type of
thrills and story telling. 7.5/10
