1
The new "New hope" dies at the hands of the Disney money-making machine

There may be some spoilers, even though I have done my best to avoid
them! I am a big fan of the OT, and like many fans was disappointed by the
silly prequels. I felt excited for this new trilogy, and hoped JJ
Abrams was going to be able to give us new stories to propel the series
forward. After the prequels, at least there was the hope of someone new
coming in and renewing the sense of magic and wonder that have been the
very soul of the OT. Now this hope has been extinguished. Disney has
put so much effort into safely making money (a lot of it, too), from
the cash cow that is Star Wars, that they have stifled any creativity
that could have made this movie great. For more detail read below :I saw the movie last night, and here are its best and worst moments.What worked: 1. Imagery - hands down, awesome visuals, but that is to be expected
given how much this movie must have cost to make. 2. The new droid, BB8 is cute 3. There was no Jar Jar Binks :) 4. Some humor, still falling a bit flat of the original 5. The reunion of Han Solo and Chewbacca, those two were as great as
everWhat did not work (for me)1. The weak story - practically a rehash or the "A New Hope" plot, but
without the freshness and creativity that made the original work so
well. Throughout the whole movie I had the feeling of "been there, done
that", and ended up being bored. I mean, we are destroying the Death
Star for a third time now, really? Ooooh, but this time it is bigger.
And we are again hiding a secret information in a droid?. Snooze. 2.The main characters. What worked so well in the OT was they had
introduced very charismatic characters and they also took the time to
develop them and give us reasons to care for them. The creation of
bonds of friendship and camaraderie between Han, Luke and Leia happened
organically, made sense and was justified. The three new leads try to
display the same, but it feels forced as nothing in the story should
have lead them to feel that way about each other. I could not bring
myself to are about Poe, or Rey or Finn, so not sure how they will
carry the franchise forward 3. Weak villains who do not project enough danger for the Resistance. I
admit, it must be hard to equal, let alone top, such awesome villains
as Lord Vader or the Emperor. Still, the new villains, Supreme
Commander Snoke, Kylo Ren and Hux come across as average wanna-bees and
do not provide the necessary feel of dread, to make us feel threatened. 4. Weak script. I had high hopes after I learned Lawrence Kasdan was
writing the script, but my hopes were unfounded. In the OT each main
character was given a very compelling reason why they were involved
with the rebels. For Leia, it was because of her father, Luke saw his
family killed, and Han, after his initial resistance, had fallen for
Leia and had come back to rescue Luke during the raid against the Death
Star. In this new movie, there was no compelling reason for Finn, and
ex-storm trooper, to somehow overcome being brainwashed and conditioned
to kill and develop high moral principles and sense of humor. For Rey,
there was no compelling reason to rescue BB8 in the desert. Poe was
already with the resistance, but feeling all buddy-buddy with Finn
happened all of a sudden, more because of "well the main characters are
supposed to be like that" rather than any sense-making reason 5. No character development. I cannot believe that they had such golden
opportunity to introduce the new leads who should have been these new
interesting characters, and they did nothing to develop them and make
us feel any sense of camaraderie with them! I mean, Finn, trying to
overcome his storm trooper conditioning; Rey going from a desert
scavenger to something more; Kylo Ren's insecurities, his volatility
and his rivalry with Hux - all of these could have been used to give us
some memorable moments, and instead were wasted. 6. Things happening too quickly and in a forced way. Remember how Luke
had to train to access the Force and gain any control over it? Remember
Ben Kenoby, a seasoned Jedi, using Jedi mind tricks? Well the new Jedi
uses these things without any training at all, it all just happens out
of nowhere 7. Musical score. The Star Wars theme is easily one of the most epic,
amazing movie scores ever written. If I had not wanted to be a Jedi so
bad, just the Imperial march alone would have made me join the Dark
Side :))) So I was hoping we were going to get some more musical
awesomeness, after all, it did happen for the sucky prequels, right?
Not so here. To my disappointment, there was no awesome First Order
theme, no nothing. It pains me so much to say that, because in my mind
John Williams is and will remain the greatest movie composer ever
