10
Truly a delight!

When I first saw the preview at the movies, all I saw were the big
four, so I said, "Looks terrible, I'm not going to see it." But then I
saw the 2nd one and realized there was to it than there seemed. The
movie follows the view of Jack Frost, the spirit of winter who wakes
with no memory and finds no one can see him. For the next three hundred
years he is alone.... until Pitch comes back to destroy the Guardians
and therefore is chosen by the Man in Moon to join them. From there, an
instant rivalry takes place between him and bunny, so when the latter
insults Jack and his current status, North takes him to his room and
tells him to find his center. Not long afterward, they find that Pitch
stole everything Tooth had and try to stop the former. There he finds
out he had a past life he had been unaware about and begins to yearn
for more information. Later when he takes home Sophie Bennet after
preparing for Easter, he hears a familiar voice and decides to follow
it to Pitch's Lair. He there finds his memories but is mocked by Pitch.
In an attempt to attack him, Jack is led out of the lair to find that
Easter had been ruined. When he finds the guardians, bunny was no
longer seen by children and they would not let him explain what
happened but broke their trust. Horrified, He turned and left, as
belief growing short. When he arrived in Antarctica, he is confronted
by Pitch to join him. When Jack refuses, he sends him into isolation in
the cliffs. There Jack looks through his memories and finds why he is
chosen to be a guardian, for saving his sister's life before he died.
After he left, he found that there was only one believer left, a boy he
knew named Jamie Bennet. Jack flies to him finds Jamie at a crossroads
of belief. As it begins to fade, Jack tries to convince the Guardians
were real, and ended up gaining the first person to see him. Later, the
guardians band together to stop Pitch with Jamie and his friends. In
the process, the children bring back Sandy who had supposedly 'died'
earlier in the movie. Together they stop Pitch and Jack Frost becomes
the Guardian of Fun. I liked this movie because it not only applied to
kids, but adults as well. Often in the movie, people can relate to
Jack's feelings of loneliness and his mischievous personality. The
characters are seen in a modern way that is the first to be expressed.
It has truly become a delight and enjoyable movie for everyone.
