8
one of the most violent sensory assaults that can be experienced in a cinema

Good war-films can be very disturbing to watch. The dramatic realism of
modern digital effects spares little and many audiences will find
Hacksaw Ridge (2016) one of the most violent sensory assaults that can
be experienced in a cinema. If it were not a true story that celebrates
an unusual hero the film could have been accused of a gratuitous
display of unrelenting carnage and military triumphalism.The film plays in two halves: the early life and romance of Army Medic
Desmond Doss (Andrew Garfield) and the actual Battle of Hacksaw Ridge.
Raised in bible best Virginia, Doss had a troubled upbringing under an
abusive father. A devout Seventh-day Adventist, he swore never to
commit violence or even carry a weapon but felt duty-bound to enlist in
the Army. Not long after meeting the one love of his life, nurse
Dorothy Schutte (Teresa Palmer), he enlisted with the belief that he
could serve his God unarmed and without killing enemy soldiers.Branded a coward and bullied to leave, he was eventually granted
conscientious objector status and became one of the troops sent to
capture Hacksaw Ridge in the Battle of Okinawa of May 1945. While the
assault was forced to retreat under overwhelming enemy fire, Doss
remained behind and single-handedly evacuated 75 casualties, lowering
them by rope from an escarpment over 100 metres high. The Ridge was
eventually captured and Doss became one of the most decorated heroes of
World War II.The heroism depicted in this story is of such an extraordinary
magnitude that it can easily overwhelm any consideration of the film's
merits. With an uncomplicated and factual narrative arc, the story
rests on two pillars: acting and filming. On both scores, this film
deserves high praise. While the early life and romance chapter drifts
towards melodrama, Garfield is cast to perfection as the wide-eyed and
straight talking man of unshakeable principle and Palmer convincingly
plays his adorable emotional anchor. Together with a strong support
cast that includes several big-name stars, this is a powerful ensemble
that carries the story convincingly.The most outstanding element of this film, however, is its powerhouse
hyper-realistic cinematography and spectacular set constructions that
relentlessly convey the brutality of war. While it is an outstanding
technical production, giving spectacle precedence over narrative is the
film's Achilles Heel. One or maybe a few helmeted heads shredded or
bodies bayonetted can convey much, but twenty deadens the senses. If
ever there was a case where less could have been more, this is it.
Otherwise this is a gripping film with forceful storytelling about a
remarkable war hero.
