3
Way too long and hollow

Set five years after Dark of the Moon, Transformers: Age of Extinction
sets out to continue the franchise, taking a new path in more than one
way. Lots of explosions, action scenes and robots wrecking cities up
and we've got ourselves the fourth one.To begin with, there were a lot of weak points, the biggest challenge
being the fact that the entire human cast was replaced. I felt that
Wahlberg and Tucci did a good job, but the rest of them were terrible.
A lot of it has to do with writing: the characters were shallow and
didn't have any depth at all. At a running time of 2h45min you think it
would be enough to flesh them out but no. Wahlberg's daughter just
yells "Dad!" and screams her entire screen time. Her boyfriend is
shoehorned in just to complete the clumsy romance but in the end is
just a tool to move the plot. Sophia Myles, amongst others, is
completely wasted. The fact that Bay chose to concentrate on the humans
again, and failed with it again, speaks volumes.It was, however, good to see how Cade (Wahlberg) first comes across
Optimus Prime and being a mechanic/inventor, revitalizes the beaten
leader. The focus also shifted from Bumblebee to Prime as the main link
to the protagonist, but oddly it was never explained why Bee left Sam
in the first place, being his most loyal protector.Now, speaking of techs in the film, there was a lot of slow-mo. A lot.
And it really took away from the action. It is okay to employ slow-mo
sometimes, for example when the robots are transforming, but not at
every single shot. Moreover, the transformings themselves were weaker
than in the previous installments. I mean, in the first one when
Starscream transformed into a plane in the middle of the flight or they
were fighting/transforming in the narrow street, or in DotM during the
fights, this depth was lacking in AoE. Also the fights weren't as good
compared to the gigantic robot battles or human black ops tactics in
previous films. Lastly, as cheesy as it may sound Optimus Prime riding
Grimlock was pretty awesome. Even if Grimlock was in the movie for
about ten whole minutes. And Lockdown the bounty hunter as the main
villain was also done nicely.The film is way too long, the beginning stretches a lot, the middle
even more, the finale as well. We are treated to a lot of badly written
human characters who just slow the movie down and stretch. Even the
endless explosions got tiring (boom, boom, boom and slow-mo all the
time, why oh why?). But honestly, going in I thought this would be
loads worse. In the end though, not as good as the first or the third,
but still better than the second (not that this should count for
anything as that was plain awful). Altogether, too long, too stretchy,
way too much slow-mo, too shallow characters, some decent fights and
action, Prime riding Grimlock and Wahlberg being his usual self. Could
have been worse but not by much.
