10
A Morality Tale Not To Be Missed

The growing pantheon of films featuring bizarre depictions of the
American Midwest just received an enthusiastic new member, for once not
from the minds of the Coen Brothers. This modern take on the classic
"cops and robbers" tale is directed by David Mackenzie in his return to
the screen after a three-year hiatus. In fact, if this film
accomplishes anything at all it should be to send the message loudly
and clearly to any studios hoping to hire Mackenzie in the future:
don't rush him. The film is centered around a string of bank robberies in Texas
committed by Toby Howard (Chris Pine) and his slightly psychotic
brother (Ben Foster), all while being pursued by a dogged Sheriff
hoping to stave off his retirement a little longer (Jeff Bridges) and
his loyal partner (Gil Birmingham). This may seem to be a fairly
straightforward story by this description, but the twists of morality
and ideas of what the true crime is here make it anything but
straightforward. The real anchors of the film, as they should be in any character study,
are the incredible performances of the cast. Chris Pine has
comparatively few lines to the other three major characters, yet he
manages to convey Toby's pain and stolid commitment with great skill.
Ben Foster's manic glee is a real show stealer in itself, consistently
keeping the audience on edge as they try to gauge how close to going
over the edge he is in any given scene. Veteran actor Jeff Bridges is
predictably great, finding an excellent balance in his sheriff
character wherein viewers are rarely sure exactly how capable he is,
both physically and mentally, while never doubting his dry wit for a
second. Gil Birmingham has the least meaty part to work with, but finds
an enjoyable and surprisingly beloved chemistry between himself and
Bridges. The actors make viewers care about both pairs on either side,
making this the first film I would say that truly makes you dread when
these two opposing forces inevitably meet. Many claim it, this one owns
it. While the performances were undeniably great, it will ultimately be the
vivid cinematography that sticks with viewers long after the credits
roll. Opening with a 360-degree pan of a small town in the Midwest, we
are immediately plunged into this world. The dilapidation is apparent
as the camera shows graffiti-soaked walls, vandalism, and general
disrepair swamping most of what we see until the bank comes back into
the shot. Now we see the bank with new eyes; it is no longer just a
bank that we suspect is about to be robbed, we now know it is for some
reason the only clean, well-kept building in the surrounding area. This
helps key viewers in on the central theme of the film before a word of
dialogue is uttered or a single scene transition takes place. From a
film lover's perspective, it is breathtaking. Moving beyond the opening, there is much more to appreciate here. The
wide vistas and blue-yellow color palette of this part of the country
is on full display here as Director David Mackenzie never shies away
from long, establishing shots of the quiet surroundings. Masterful use
of angles accentuates the themes of the film in subtle ways; as the
brothers discuss their actions, a low-angle shot is used to give them a
sense of power, yet all the while a windmill looms over them,
continuously turning its spokes, and serves to underline the idea that
the action of the film ultimately will not change anything. Sound is not without purpose here, either. Most of the film's sound
stays within the diegesis, helping to establish a sense of place within
the world. This leads to many quiet moments where the creaking of
equipment or the rustling of grass is all that exists to your ear. In
addition to rooting viewers, this lack of excessive dramatic flair
helps to feed directly into one of the films main themes; that nothing
we see here will affect anything. Naturally, if nothing we are
witnessing will serve any pretense of changing the problems we see for
the better, what would be the point of dressing it up with a sweeping,
dramatic score? It would only be dishonest, and dishonesty is best left
to the banks. At the end of the day, Hell or High Water offers a simple tale told
complexly, presented beautifully, arranged painstakingly, and paid for
happily. With a few Oscar-worthy performances from the principle
actors, incredible visuals, and some heady themes of morality, this
film easy ranks among 2016's top releases. Come Hell or High Water,
make sure you check it out.
