6
VIEWS ON FILM review of Rough Night

Jess (played by Scarlett Johansson who was better than I thought she'd
be) is getting married soon. Her friends from college decide to plan a
debauchery getaway for her in Miami, Florida. They party hard on their
first night in the Magic City by hitting a club, snorting some cocaine,
and getting real drunk. They then head back to their vacation home.
While at said home, the five women hire a stripper and accidentally
kill him. Oops!That's the gist of Rough Night, my latest review. Modeling the female
version of movies like The Hangover, Very Bad Things, and Weekend at
Bernie's, "Night" has a few laughs and even trudges slightly into black
comedy territory. My reason for a mixed rating however, is simple:
Rough Night isn't as dark or risk-taking as "Things" and it isn't as
funny as "Hangover". As for "Bernie's", well "Night" only hints at the
mocking of a dead body during a couple of scenes in the trailer. Those
scenes were obviously left on the cutting room floor. Distributed by Columbia Pictures and clocking in at just over 100
minutes, Rough Night is standard yet shoddily directed by Lucia Aniello
(this is her feature film debut). She provides "Night" with the usual
shtick for a hard, R-rated endeavor. There's some drug references (and
drug use), some heavy sexual innuendo, and some vulgar, unladylike
language. Some of the material sticks and some of it awkwardly bounces
off. As for Aniello's group of actresses (Zoe Kravitz, Jillian Bell, and
Kate McKinnon to name three), well they're stiff at first but then gel
together with variably decent chemistry. This is despite some real odd
casting choices in the form of Johansson (mentioned earlier) as a woman
running for state senate and Demi Moore as one half of a neighboring,
swinging couple. Strangely, the most humorous sequences in Rough Night involve Jess's
fiancé named Peter (played by Paul W. Downs). He thinks she doesn't
want to marry him anymore so he quickly drives straight from Washington
D.C. to Miami in a diaper (just revert back to that astronaut story
with Lisa Nowak in 2007). This is all done to win Jess back (talk about
bad miscommunication).In conclusion, if I had to decipher the biggest flaw in "Night", it
would be the ending. I won't give anything away but it feels as though
the screenwriters ran out of ideas, threw in a regimented twist, and
abruptly copped out on real-life culminations (the five friends could
never fully get away with what they did). Talk about borderline
hackwork. Overall, Rough Night gets two and a half stars from this
critic. It could serve as a harmless rental when it eventually comes
out on DVD.
