8
"That was a gift from Stalin." "In our country, we pronounce that Stallone"

"The Interview" (2014 release; 112 min.) brings the story of how an
entertainment reporter Dave Skylark (played by James Franco) and his
producer Aaron Rapoport (played by Seth Rogen) get an opportunity to
interview Kim Jong-un. the "Supreme Leader" of North Korea. As the
movie opens, we see a young girl (maybe 7 or 8) sing a patriotic song
for North Korean officials. The song turns hilariously into an
anti-America rant. Soon thereafter, we see Skylark interview Eminem
(another hilarious scene). When Skylark and Rapoport find out that
Jng-un is a big fan of the show, they manage an invite to North Korea.
The CIA then pays a visit and convinces the guys that they need to
"take out" Jong-un. At this point we're barely 20 min. into the movie
but to tell you more would spoil your viewing experience.Couple of comments: at this point as much needs to be said about the
events surrounding the limited release of the movie as about the movie
itself. Let's start with the movie itself: first and foremost, I had
heard and read mixed things about the movie, so when my (grown) kids
and I went to see it on Christmas day, I had pretty low expectations.
Turns out the movie is actually not nearly as bad as I had been led the
believe. Yes, there is stupid "potty" humor and yes, it's all very much
over the top. But there are zingers left and right that will have you
smile if not laugh out loud. One of the many, many examples: when
Jong-un and Skylark are taking a tour of Jong-un's place, at some point
they come across a huge tank. Comments Jong-un: "That was a gift to my
grandfather by Stalin". Replies Skylark: "in our country, we pronounce
that Stallone", ha! And on and on. Randall Park as Kim Jong-un is
outstanding. Kudos also to Set Rogen, who also co-rwote and co-directed
the movie.As to the limited release, I at first was horrified that Sony gave in
to the threats, but felt better when the limited Christmas day release
was announced. The movie played on one screen at my local art-house
theater here in Cincinnati, and it's a good thin I had bought tickets
on-line beforehand, as the matinée screening was sold out (as were all
other screenings, apparently). The crowd was really into it, laughing
and hollering and whooping it up. When the end titles started rolling,
the crowd even gave an applause. In all, this truly was a "movie
event", and all three of us were very happy we were part of it. "The
Interview" is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
