6
A nose-dive into the psyches of a serial-killer couple! [+62%]

Here's a film about a serial-killer couple (John & Evelyn) set in 1987
Perth, Australia with shades of realism (unlike what one witnessed in
Greg McLean's Wolf Creek films). Directed by Ben Young, the film
attempts to explore the altering emotional stances of the
killer-couple, the victim and ones close to the victim. The movie opens with the couple going about their kidnap-murder
business, seemingly having their eyes set on adolescent women, which
later elucidates as to why the couple's kids are not around. Vicki,
whose parents are shown to have separated, finds solace in her
boyfriend with whom she's having a sort of 'wordplay-thing' going on.
While Vicki's inclination is more towards her dad because her mom was
the one who left, she still spends a few days of the week at her mom's
residence although not on great terms with her. Due to sheer bad luck, Vicki who was sneaking out of her mom's house
late at night to attend a party ends up becoming the next easy-prey for
the murderous couple. She is brought to the house by the couple under
the pretense of selling weed but is soon doped and chained to a bed
much to the scorn of the teenager. What follows is the how the couple (especially Evelyn, played by Emma
Booth) begin to experience emotional imbalances as time progresses
while they still continue to reinstate their faith in each other by
engaging in erotic acts. John (played by Stephen Curry) is the more
physical of the two, and has hidden intentions of wanting to rape Vicki
and eventually convinces Evelyn to assist in doing so.The escape-attempt sequence has been conceived and executed remarkably
well. Evelyn eventually gets the feeling (as mentioned once by Vicki
too) that she's being taken for a ride by her husband and made to do
most of the dirty-work, while being treated like a stooge. The
decisions that proceed are what constitute the climax of the film. It
is indeed difficult to praise this film without spoiling it, but I
won't do so because the final 20-25 minutes carry some effective
nail-biter moments that impel the viewer in a harrowing manner.This is a film that exhibits a fair bit of subtlety in
characterization. The layering/texturing is apparent. Much of the
terror takes place off-screen, yet the gruesomeness is strongly felt.
"Words are mightier than swords" - what the viewer initially shrugs off
as something insignificant acts as a crucial turning- point later on.
The performances are ravishingly good..be it Ashleigh Cummings who
plays Vicki (wow!) her parents especially the mom character (played by
Susie Porter) who displays her acting prowess in the climax sequence,
and of course, the killer-couple. There are certain pacing and tonal
issues, but the movie is still worth recommending to those who relish
slow-burner (crime) flicks.Verdict: Realistic crime-drama (that you probably won't watch more than
once!)
