7
It's not as good as your expect nor as bad as you heard

To start it off, i'm a big fan of dc cinematic universe, and the year
2016, hadn't been a good year for me and the other fans. Even though,
i'll state myself optimistic, since actually, all my hopes and
expectation fall into this movie instead. OK, Let's start with the strong aspects of the movie; performances and
characters. well, i actually think this is what the director want to
top off and show to the audience, thus forgetting the plot, which we
will get into later. but the characters and the performances are
well-performed- Margot Robbie as Harley Quinn really tops off my
expectation. i'm a fan of harley quinn character, and she actually
brought me the harley quinn i'm expected for- sexy, beautiful, it girl
of joker's. while watching the movie, and whenever i'm feeling bored,
harley quinn is there to make the scene fresh. and i think all
audience, including audiences who didn't know her will love her and
feel sympathetic to her. Will smith as deadshot actually didn't deserve
much of my appreciation. i mean even though he's one of the great and
strong aspect in the movie, i just thought i don't see will smith even
trying to act, which weirdly works. watching Will smith here is just
watching him using a kickass suit. Jared Leto as The Joker, is actually
isn't the worst part of the movie (unlike what people might have said)
i think that Jared Leto pull of a great effort into his character, and
some scene of him showing up gave me goosebumps and own joys. but,
maybe how little the scene for him is, or his character is pretty
under-developed that just doesn't fit the puzzle in the movie. Viola
Davis as Amanda Waller also brought up my her characther pretty well,
as she played the cold-hearted leader Amanda Waller. other performances
are great, like Joel Kinnaman, Jai Courtney, Jay Hernandez, Karen
Fukuhara, and Cara Delevigne.The chemistry between the characters are great, as well as the
development between their relationship. in my opinion, one of the
strongest chemistry is Harley Quinn and Deadshot. Their chemistry is
electric, funny, and watching them teasing, and slowly started to care
about each other, is entertaining, and make me ship them together.
even, i have a relationship that had a weak chemistry, that is Rick
Flagg and June Moore's relationship which is bland, forced, and
unnecessary. Now, parts that i think is the weak part of the movie, I think the plot
is the main reason. The plot is lazy-written and under-developed,and at
some point is pretty ridiculous. i don't want to get into it too much,
since it will spoil some things, and i need you to watch the movie
without spoilers, yet. even, i could tell you that the CGI is pretty
cringy and sometimes, so does the visual effect between the scenes. the
ending is actually rushed, predictable, and i think they could do
better after building up the story of the fight scene.At the end, everything has its bad and has its good, what i really
suggest for you to do is just lower your expectation, yet don't miss it
either. it may not lift the hype as in the greatness in the trailer,
but i think it's still a great fun must see summer movie , and you
should enjoy it without all the overly negative critics.
