8
Becoming John Carter of Mars...

Not a movie about Noah Wyle's character from the show ER, but rather
one based on a book I've never read titled A Princess of Mars.
Originally going to be titled John Carter of Mars, the movie apparently
dropped the 'of Mars' to "make it more appealing to a broader audience"
and this film is supposed to be the origin story "about a guy
*becoming* John Carter of Mars" - this probably explains why we finally
get the originally-intended title of 'John Carter of Mars' at the very
end.The man in question is John Carter from Virginia, ex-Civil War soldier
who lost his family and is now gold prospecting. Proceedings are rather
slow-going in the beginning of the film, although it's necessary set-up
for what's to come. Things don't really get interesting until Carter's
transported to Mars, which is known as Barsoom by the inhabitants
there, who are 9 to 15 foot tall four-armed green aliens with tusks
called Tharks. Thanks to the lower gravity of Mars, Carter has enhanced
strength and can leap great distances. We even get a montage devoted to
him discovering as much. Some Tharks discover him, the least hostile of
which is one named Tars Tarkas (voiced by Willem Dafoe), who winds up
thinking Carter's name is Virigina due to miscommunication. Subtitles
are used up until Carter is eventually able to understand the Tharks
and we hear them speaking in English. At one point he comes to the
rescue of an alien dog named Woola, who is extremely loyal/fast and
becomes his constant companion. Carter also finds an ally in Sola
(Samantha Morton). Eventually he meets the Princess of Mars herself,
Dejah Thoris, after having rescued her (it's what he does). And this is
where the real story begins.As John Carter and Dejah Thoris, Taylor Kitsch and Lynn Collins reunite
(after the rather ho-hum affair that was X-Men Origins: Wolverine).
Kitsch fits the role of the long-haired hero well (although he is
saddled with some rather dodgy dialogue at times). His reactions to the
bizarre situations, customs, etc that he finds himself having to deal
with are pretty good. He is well-paired with Lynn Collins, who manages
to make Dejah actually very human (like when she's nervous about the
presentation she's about to give when we first meet her in the
city-state of Helium...though, oddly enough, nobody there speaks with
funny high-pitched voices like you'd expect). She's certainly the
prettiest thing on Mars, but she's also very smart, as well as able to
handle herself in a fight. She's equal parts scientist and action
heroine. Kitsch and Collins play off each other very well, sharing both
humorous and touching moments between them. Also good is James Purefoy
as Kantos Kan. Although it's not a big role, he manages to make the
most of it and is easily likable, as well as amusing at times. Mark
Strong, meanwhile, continues to be the go-to guy for playing a villain.The story is not exactly easy to follow if you aren't paying attention.
There's a lot of names of things to keep track of, as well as some
twists and turns here and there. The film feels like it kind of rushes
things a bit towards the end, as it has to wrap up stuff. Given the
running time, you wouldn't think things would need to be like this, but
it seems the makers realised their movie was reaching the limit of its
runtime and there was still some stuff left to address at the last
minute.The effects on display are as dazzling as Dejah's blue eyes. The
thought and effort that has gone into designing/creating the creatures,
the ships, the costumes, etc is fully on display on the screen. The
music helps too. While this movie might not be everyone's cup of tea,
it does offer something a bit different in place of what could have
been a rather paint-by-the-numbers affair. Yes, some parts are
predictable, but there are also some parts that you might not expect.
Don't let the trailers fool you, it's not just all mindless action.
There is some actual real story going on here (provided, of course,
that you can keep track of/follow it). Recommended for anyone who's
looking for a slightly off-kilter sci-fi film.
