8
Pumped Up and Hugely Entertaining

Finally! After that dreadful Transformers franchise, the Michael Bay
who brought us those Bad Boys movies is back! PAIN & GAIN is pumped-up
and hugely entertaining. Mark Wahlberg, Dwayne Johnson, and Anthony
Mackie bring the old saying, in way over your head, to whole new level
of hilarious. Their performances are like The Three Stooges with
biceps. A crime comedy doesn't get better than this..PAIN & GAIN is your textbook Michael Bay, there are beautiful girls,
fast cars, that 360-degree spinning shot where the camera circles the
actors, plus it's back in Miami too, the land of all kinds of colors
and sunshine! Yup! PAIN & GAIN looks, feels, breaths, and benches like
a Michael Bay movie, alright! Minus the giant robots, and that's a good
thing in this case. I have to give props to the true story that became
the basis for this movie, just the idea of three knucklehead
bodybuilders chasing American dream and the mishaps that happen along
the way because of their stupidity, it's practically a formula for a
laugh riot, it practically begged to be made into a movie. Plus it's
scripted by the screen writing team who brought us Captain America: The
First Avenger, the humor that banks on the cluelessness of the three
leads just keeps on coming and hitting the mark. What a great cast,
including the great Tony Shalhoub and the rising star/funnywoman, Rebel
Wilson who steals every scene she's in. That big girl is going to go
places.Mark Wahlberg leads the pack, but this ain't The Hangover, because all
the three lead characters in PAIN & GAIN are idiots, that's the
attraction, they think they have it all figured out, but they never
think things through, so when things go haywire, they're forced to
improvise and when they do improvise, people get hurt and even after
that, they still mess up in trying to cover their tracks, it's the idea
of stupid people trying to get a shortcut to fortune, some people can't
handle such fortune, they mismanage it and they're left hungry again.
The film probably would make the late great Tony Scott proud too,
because it moves like an A-D-D person, one scene moves to the next very
quickly, which also speaks about how rash the three leads are in making
their moves. Dwayne Johnson, Mark Wahlberg, and Anthony Mackie have
impressive comedic timing, you should see them panicking or cornered,
their performances get even more intense. I hit the gym but I don't
even come close to what Wahlberg, Mackie, and Johnson do regularly,
perhaps. Their biceps have biceps, that's how ridiculously massive they
look on the big screen, their belief in fitness is going to make you
feel quite insignificant. PAIN & GAIN may have some commentary about
American Dream, on whether or not those who do achieve it actually
earned it, but in the end, it's just a laugh out loud cautionary tale
told through the style of Michael Bay.-- www.ramascreen.com --
