6
A muddled child abuse drama

This review of Una is spoiler free*** (3/5)IT'S ONLY A short time into Benedict Andrews' flawed but powerful paean
about the complications of life after child abuse. When we have Rooney
Mara's tile character Una, walking into her former neighbour's
workplace to confront him about their past, specifically to ask him
questions about his leaving after a sexual encounter the two had when
she was 13-years-old. Written by David Harrower from his own complex
play Blackbird. First time director Andrews depicts a series of heart
wrenching events from a beautifully sun drenched barbecue party, with a
young Una meeting her neighbour, Rey (Ben Mendelsohn) for the first
time (fantastic work by newcomer Ruby Stokes), to him sitting in a
court room awaiting a hearing in a couple of the many shining
flashbacks. He shoots these brilliant moments with gripping almost real
results. Led by Mara's brave naked performance and Mendelsohn's
unflinching persona Una is a riveting drama which succeeds in almost
all aspects. It's not always an easy watch as Rey seduces this young girl, there's
no graphic imagery on show but the words between Una and Rey physically
describing what he did to her is enough to make you shudder. Physically
she's damaged; she's been in constant pain for most of her life.
Emotionally she's changed which her concerning mother (Fitzgerald) sees
and tries to make amends by talking to her. There are moments when her intent to be a hesitant woman bringing the
good-cop-bad-cop routine card into the game, sometimes making her a
brutal force sucking in all the sympathy. Rey, however, is the
opposite, he is a broken man he feels sorry for leaving her in that
situation. Throughout their conversation he begs for forgiveness hoping
for one last drop of sympathy. Mendelsohn is so brilliantly nuanced
here that he somehow manages to at least evoke a semblance of pity from
the audience. While this works for a while thanks to Andrews' powerful
direction managing to hold nothing back from his understanding of the
characters to the general impact of drama. It's not always on top of its game as there are buried problems - one
is the pacing, some of the story fails to translate itself from
Harrower's intelligent playwriting as some of it feels overly slow. And
some of the flashbacks intertwine a few of the more important
confrontation scenes. This unfortunately tends to be the bigger problem
as it often can become difficult to follow a certain point of the
story. Despite this Una is a riveting provocative drama with
outstanding tour de force performances from both parties. Though
uncomfortable in its material, it's a unique way of filmmaking which
almost manages to be real - even after the credits have rolled it stays
with you forever.VERDICT: Worth the watch for the magnetic lead performances. But some
of it feels that the play isn't correctly translated on the screen.
