9
Quite the Epic

My wife and I were able to see an advanced showing of Cloud Atlas last
night at The Chicago International Film Festival. I will say that I was
thrilled to see this movie from the moment I saw the initial trailer
release. I am a huge fan of movies that are epic in nature and are
rather daring by taking on the task of time lines that may span a
millennia.I will not provide any spoilers but I will say that the film is truly
grand in scope and as you may have deduced from the trailer, the film
time span passes through hundreds of years and includes many characters
and story lines that are interwoven or overlap.I cannot say enough about the performances in the film. From top to
bottom, everyone displays amazing performances. Hugo Weaving obviously
is a show stopper in several scenes. The make-up and costume design
will throw even the seasoned film-goer off as the transitions made by
these characters are nothing short of spectacular. I cannot see another
film coming close to being in the same category for the Oscar in
Costume and Make-Up.The visuals and the score of the movie were the biggest takeaways for
me. There were moments that reminded me of Blade Runner mixed with Out
of Africa. There are a large number of stories within the film, some
large and some small, but many strong enough to be individual films
themselves. That being said with the long running time of the film,
almost 3 hours, coupled with the multitude of story lines and the very
numerous edits, the film can be a daunting task for even a seasoned
viewer. I'd be lying if I said I wasn't fighting to pay close attention
to every detail to the first hour of the film to understand what was
happening. The first 10 minutes alone caused me some confusion.This film will not be for everyone due to its complexity and length,
but for those who are true fans of films this epic in nature will truly
appreciate the film. I very much look forward to another viewing of the
film and encourage everyone to see the film at least once.Cheers
