7
Not Like the Novel, But Not Bad -  By an Edgar RIce Burroughs purist

In the large view, this film is passable entertainment, featuring lots
of sword play, eerie landscapes, bizarre alien creatures, air combat,
laser blasts -- the sort of stuff Hollywood loves to include in all SF
blockbusters. Evoking memories of the Flash Gordon serials of
yesteryear and the original Star Wars trilogy, the movie tries hard to
be visually-appealing and action-filled, while remaining as faithful as
possible to the source material, Edgar Rice Burroughs' (ERB) "A
Princess of Mars." As a huge fan of SF and ERB and as someone who has read most of ERB's
books, I have to commend Disney for turning out an interesting film
despite highly compressing the story to fit a two hour time frame. As
is the case with most novels made into movies, "John Carter" takes
story elements that the novelist carefully unfolded in 10 or 20 pages
and gives it 30 seconds on screen. Other reviewers have said the story
as told by the film feels "rushed," which is true.John Carter's development from a "stranger in a strange land" to a
mighty warrior respected and prized by the Tharks also felt rushed in
the film. I am certain that viewers unfamiliar with the books do
struggle to keep the story straight as it blitzes forward. I'm hoping
the movie will revive interest in the original books.A major non-ERB element added to the film is the elevation of the Holy
Therns, who play a relatively minor role in the ERB books, to the
status of alien masterminds who insidiously control all aspects of
Barsoom's politics and culture. This, in my mind, significantly changes
the complexion of the original novels. Obviously, the main purpose of
the Therns in the film is to speed up the action and give the audience
tangible "bad guys" to jeer at.Despite these deviations from the original novel, "John Carter," I
think succeeds in appealing to modern film goers while remaining
relatively faithful to the source material. Going in, I was extremely
fearful that Carter would suffer the same fate that Hollywood dealt to
another one of my pulp heroes, Doc Savage, whose movie appeal was
destroyed by the disastrous 1975 film. Thankfully, "John Carter" has
not gone the way of "Doc Savage: Man of Bronze."
