1
Purge and Purify

I was expecting this movie to be hot garbage and I certainly wasn't
wrong, but frig, I was unaware that a movie could be so offensive to
such a degree. The directing was terrible and amateurish with awkward
cuts and mystifying editing choices. The characters were terribly
sketched as I could barely remember their names by the end. The acting
was just awful like for goodness sakes do a couple more takes maybe,
try something. The plot made no sense as it was mostly ridiculous and
random purge visuals along with pointless side plots (candy bar
anyone?). It was very clear that the director thought of something he
thought would look cool and put it on screen. It wasn't hard to tell
that plot was a secondary factor. There was a certain character who was
introduced and given a little bit of time but was quickly and
unceremoniously killed off in a ridiculous way that only killed him
somehow. I guess they couldn't have the screen filled up with too many
deep or racist characters. The founding fathers were cartoonishly evil,
and set the precedent right away for the horrible acting. I almost
forgot about the opening sequence with it's jarring editing, its only
purpose being to provide backstory to a character which is pointless. I
say that because this movie is not about the plot; oh no frig the plot
this is about random and stupid violence throughout. The "good guys"
don't seem overly concerned with sparing lives as they brutally stab
and murder unaware people who could of easily been taken down with a
knock on the head. That's really what it's all about though is
captivating the stupid audience members who are cheering for blood.
Look around at some other reviews; anyone who gave it above a 7 is not
someone you want to be associated with. The movie is just so undeniably
bad and made for the lowest common denominator it's disgraceful. This
is all without yet mentioning the totally offensive token black
character who is an awful stereotype to be in a movie coming out in
2016, and is only there to be comedic relief for the more racist people
in the audience. Good lord some movies really do take a piece of you
that you can't get back and this movie took a chunk for sure. Easily
one of the worst movies I've ever seen. Just an awful combination of
racism, terrible acting and directing, pointless plot, and thoughtless
violence that combine to create absolute cancer. I'm disgusted.
