6
Creative and relevant

"Sleeping with Other People" is an American 100-minute comedy movie
from last year, but I would also classify it as drama, even id IMDb
does not. there are quite a few serious moments in this one, nothing
like life-or-death situations, but we are also talking about the drama
genre here, not about a thriller. Anyway, the writer and director is
Leslye Headland and this is her new film after "Bachelorette". The main
characters are played by Jason Sudeikis and Alison Brie, notable
supporting cast members include Adam Scott and Amanda Peet. They all
play their parts well. I was positively surprised by Scott, who was
pretty bad in other stuff I have seen him in and looking at Sudeikis'
works in the last 5 years, you certainly have to count him among the
finest comedy actors currently working. That Golden Globe nomination
only seems a matter of time.Still this film here is 100% about the script. It is really really good
in terms of the action and the plot and how it develops. of course, the
ending is somewhat predictable throughout the entire film, but that is
not a negative criticism at all, especially as, occasionally, it looks
as if the two will not come together. Unfortunately, there were some
unrealistic moments when it comes to the dialogs between the core
characters. Sometimes it is just not the way (these) people (in the
movie) would speak. That's a bit of a shame as the film really did not
need to try to be particularly smart or hipster during these scenes as
it delivers so well with the action, but, oh well, it still is a bit of
a letdown in this area.This is the only major negative aspect though. This is one of the
better comedy films of 2015, no doubt about it. I am very much positive
that if Headland can work a bit on her conversation writing and step
things up in this area, she can make it to become one of Hollywood's
finest writers. Judging from her profile picture, she still seems to be
very young. One great strength of the film is how likable all the
characters are, even if they are definitely far from perfect. Many
writers have tried to create flawed characters that the audience would
adore and many have failed. Headland has not and that also implies
almost all of the minor characters. I applaud her for that. And I
recommend "Sleeping with Other People". Certainly a nice film to rent
and watch on DVD. Thumbs up.
