10
masterpiece

Watched PK...speechless!!A sparkling example of qualitative cinema!
It's rare to see a film that bounces between humor & sentiment so
seamlessly .aamir khan has done many challenging roles in his career
but #Pk is beyond imagination!!!Aamir khan acting is just beyond
imagination his career best performance !!!! ‪#‎PK‬ he'll make u laugh,
cry, amuse, provoke.. all at the same time!!You experience the whole
gamut of emotions, and end up saluting the makers. First time as a
‪#‎critic‬ I feel some films are better experienced as a ‪#‎discussion‬
rather than as a critical analysis and #PK is among them. Writer
director ‪#‎RajuHirani‬ like every time presents a new thought. His
strength as filmmaker is his honesty, his intention n his simplicity.
‪#‎AamirKhan‬ has done many challenging roles in his career but #Pk is
beyond imagination. His performance has to be experienced!The efforts
taken by Raju Hirani to raise fundamental questions bout human belief
system requires loads of courage n extensive research #PK. The
uniqueness of Raju Hirani lies in making a pertinent point on the
social fabric of the country n yes ensure relentless entertainment.
Hirani touches our heart and mind at the same time. Yet again. Raju
Hirani, you short little genius !!. Anushka Sharma springs a refreshing
surprise.She shines brilliantly as an actress. Sushant Singh Rajput is
extremely endearing in a cameo while Sanjay Dutt is all heart...The fat
barber will emerge as a Rock star soon. If you're looking for a rare
experience of emotion packed message n quality entertainment then #PK
won't disappoint you.Enjoy Its truly your best performance till date!!!
This movie couldn't have been better timed seeing the 'change' our
country is going through. Entire movie hall went gaga over it.
‪#‎PKaaya‬ What a fantastic movie.. you're really done a superb work..
what a performance. Wonderful. #AamirKhan great, ‪#‎AnushkaSharma‬
adorable. Still singing "Love is a Waste of Time."
