2
The movie got Trek cannon wrong, got basic 21st century science wrong and in no way contributed to Gene Roddenberry's dream of a better world

The film was horrible.With that said I'll start with the good. Karl Urban's Dr. McCoy was the
one shining star in the film. His deadpan line, "He'd let you die Jim"
was perfect. It showed the struggle between compassion and logic that
was so well portrayed by Kelly and Nimoy in the original series. First, the film completely disregards Star Trek cannon. Christopher
Pike does not live through the movie to end up as a quadriplegic on
Talos IV. The Klingon home world, Kronos, appears to have a moon,
Praxis, that has exploded, except this doesn't happen until Star Trek
VI. All this is forgivable however; new movies for a new generation
that knows nothing about Star TrekSecond, what isn't forgivable is that basic Newtonian physics and
science is so poorly understood by the film makers that it distracts
from the movie. Some examples of plainly not understand that the world
around you is governed by science and not magic are: the heat from the
volcano is attributed to damaging shuttle craft Galileo yet the heat
caused by de-orbiting the shuttle craft would far exceed any heat
caused by a volcano. In the same sequence, the Enterprise is parked
underwater. Are we to believe that a star ship that must be constructed
in space and is designed to be used for interstellar travel also
doubles as a submarine? When was the last time that you boarded a 747
to go on an undersea adventure? And why in the hell would they park the
Enterprise underwater when they could be invisible in orbit directly
above the volcano and use sensors and transporters? Other big issues are that the crew of the starship Enterprise does not
know the distance of the moon's orbit. Ask Neil Armstrong, I bet he
figured it out 300 years earlier. I think the first question on
starship helmsman's exam should be, "Where is the moon and so you don't
hit it?" Next when the ship can no longer hold orbit, it falls back to
earth in a few minutes like a stone dropped into a pond. Newton? Never
heard of him! What laws of motion? I think movies reflect a lot upon a
generation. This new generation claims nerds are cool, but has no
manned space program. Your parents' generation actually walked on the
moon.Third, when the script however fails to make common sense, it throws
you outside the movie and this makes the movie 'unfun'. After a secure,
secret Starfleet facility is attacked, Starfleet Command decides to
meet in an unprotected high rise. I guess in the 23rd century, rank
isn't correlated with intelligence or experience. Next, the Klingons
are a war like race equally as advanced as humans that have developed
space travel but they don't bother to guard their entire home world.
They actually sound pretty easy to conquer. That's okay because humans
are just as dumb; two Federation ships appear in earth orbit to duke it
out and there are no other Federation ships around. Please, will one
ship randomly fall on San Francisco? We sound pretty easy to conquer
too. Let's not forget about the unnecessary, obligatory, giant tittied girl
in skimpy underwear to make all the 14 year old boys have happy wet
dreams. I love nude women as much as the next guy but porn has it's
time and place and this wasn't it Unless you are a 14 year old boy
with $10.50 for a movie and no other access to porn.When Kirk died, why did Dr. McCoy need Kahn's blood to save him? He had
72 genetically engineered humans from the eugenics war frozen in front
of him. The Eugenics Wars are well documented. He actually had to thaw
one of those guys out to put Kirk in the life support tube. Why not use
his blood or one of the other 71 samples of super blood?Fourth, I remember when Spock died in Star Trek II, people cried, it
was debated if he could really be dead. It was an emotional heartfelt
moment that asked the audience to way, "the needs of the many, versus
the needs of the few." Did anyone really think Jim was dead in this
movie? He was dead for all of five minutes! It was a completely wasted
scene because it was devoid of emotional connection. I believe it was
30 seconds wedged in the middle of two action sequences. This may be
because modern movie audiences lack the social skills such as empathy
which are necessary for bonding with others. So the film makers simply
recreate a scene from the past devoid of emotion and the audience
believes it has the received the same spellbinding moment that their
parents received.The only emotion portrayed in the whole film is the Caulfield like
teenage angst of Captain Kirk. Great men are no longer portrayed as
being challenged with great responsibility or moral questions but now
face the pubescent problems of spoiled teenagers. This is the greatest
reason why this new Star Trek movie fails. Gene Roddenberry created a
future where men had moved beyond many of humanities vices. He created
a series of moral plays in his "Wagon train to the sky"; the original
series is more like twilight zone episodes than anything else. Where in
this movie did you feel good about humanity? Did this movie make you
feel like we could end the Iraq War? That's how the old series made you
feel about Vietnam and the Cold War. Did it make you feel that bigotry
toward gays would end? That's how the original series made you feel
about racism. The movie is an epic fail that reflects a generation that
is an epic failure.
