3
Not a complete disaster, but far from being decent

Although a date has yet to be determined for the US release of the
movie, Amityville: The Awakening has finally come out internationally. After several delays that began 2 and a half years ago, this movie has
sort of become a joke in the Hollywood movie industry and everyone has
started to wonder how bad this new iteration in the Amityville
franchise could actually be.I managed to see the movie today and while there aren't too many good
things to be said about it, it is far from being the worst horror movie
that has been put out in theaters. Actually, that's this movie's main
problem: a theatrical release. It would've been better off as a
straight-to-DVD movie, given its poor technical aspects which bugged me
the most.First off, the movie is a jump-scare fest, which wouldn't have been
that much of a problem if the majority of them wouldn't have been fake
scares. They were all extremely cheap and failed to land because there
was no build-up to any of them. I couldn't even hear ONE scream from
the audience I watched the movie with because, though arriving at
unexpected moments, the scares turned out as laughable and nonsensical.
Now that I think of it, I am having a hard time remembering at least
one memorable scare or moment of suspense.The direction of the movie was completely flat and some truly atrocious
editing choices certainly didn't help it. Not only did they take me out
of the moment, but they also made certain scenes incomprehensible. What
also took me out of some scenes during the big showdown at the end of
the movie was the terrible VFX.Another criticism I have for this movie is its extensive use of dream
sequences and visions, which didn't help the plot at all and were
completely unnecessary, besides for setting up another random jump-
scare.The score of the movie was supposed to help building tension, but it
rather comes out as annoying and somehow manipulative.The ending of the movie felt abrupt and unsatisfying. Certain scenes
that were included in the international trailer a month ago were
nowhere to be found in this cut of the movie.On the other hand, the performances of the actors didn't bother me at
all. Bella Thorne's acting is, surprisingly, not wooden at all and she
actually gets to show some of her acting skills in a few emotional
moments. Most of these are opposite Jennifer Jason Leigh, and the two
actresses make the mother-daughter scenes work. A highlight of the
movie is Thomas Mann who gets to shine in a few comedic moments as the
movie geek friend, although he doesn't get a lot of time in the
spotlight.The movie is at its best when it doesn't try to scare the audience, but
perhaps make us weep. My favorite scenes were the ones in which the
characters begin to form emotional bonds. Talking about characters, the
most complex arcs belong to Belle and her mother, Joan, who have
dramatic backstories and real motivations. However, the two friends
that Belle makes at her new school are left hanging in the air after a
certain a point and are underutilized. Also, Belle's little sister
completely disappears from the movie for a good portion of the running
time, which leaves me thinking that the screenwriter-director didn't
know what to do with her while the main characters were in peril.Another positive aspect of the movie was its self-awareness of being
yet another movie in the Amityville franchise. Some of the characters
even agree on the fact that the 2005 remake of the original movie is
not worth a watch. However, the movie gets bogged down in the mythology
of the past installments in the series, as it so often goes back and
tries to recreate certain plot points of the other movies.Overall, I think this movie is, simply put, bland, utterly forgettable
and a poor excuse to bring back the Amityville long-running franchise
to a new generation, paling in comparison to this new wave of
critically and commercially acclaimed horror movies of the past few
years.
