4
Just watch the original instead...

Disclaimer: this movie can prove to be "scarrie" for those who are not
a fan of the horror genre in general. For those of us who are, at least
for me, this movie was everything but scary. First of all, when I heard
that Chloe Moretz will be taking the role of Carrie, I was afraid that
she might not be able to pull it off. In fact, the only thing I was
pleased to hear was that Julianne Moore will be playing Carrie's
mother. She is a great choice for the role but the way she handled it,
as well as everything else about this movie is - over the top. I could
sense the idea of wanting to make a good remake of a classic, but in
the end they just missed it... Chloe Moretz is a very good, promising
young actress, I don't even wanna talk about acting abilities of
Julianne Moore, but they just didn't seem real here. What makes the
original Carrie truly disturbing is that it's really slow paced. In its
essence, it's a drama about a teenage girl that is being deprived of an
ordinary teenage life and experiences that come with it due to her
fanatically religious and psychologically extremely questionable
mother, to put it lightly. And yes, the plot is pretty much the same
and everything, but the general feel is that they rushed it. As I said,
everything is over the top, the acting is exaggerated, the
relationships between the characters are unconvincing, but it's biggest
flaw is that you KNOW what's coming. You have Carrie doing her
telekinesis stunts from the very beginning. It's almost as if she was
practicing this skill from waaaaaay back, making pencils float around
the room, flying the bread over to the toaster - you know, the usual
stuff. So when the real thing was supposed to happen, the x was out of
the equation making it quite frustrating to watch. It seems to me that,
to make a remake of such a classic film you need to put so much thought
and effort into every little detail to make it at least convincing
enough, if you're not aiming to top the original. This movie seemed
like someone got the idea "hey let's make a remake of some classic
horror movie... hmmm... which one should we pick... the Exorcist? no,
that's to heavy. hey, how about Carrie? Sure! it has a young girl as a
lead, we sure have plenty of those, and there's a mother - oh, no,
don't tell me? are you thinking what I'm thinking? JULIANNE freakin'
MOORE!" And off they went with their brilliant idea and messed it all
up. It was to hasty, it was thoughtless, unconvincing and at the end
all I could to was to pick the flaws as I was comparing it to the
original. I could go on and on about which aspects of the movie I
disliked the most, instead I'll just give it a 4/10 and never watch it
again. The 2013 version, at least.
