7
Not all re-tellings have to be "edgy"

I was really interested in seeing this movie from the start, but the
negative press and the corny trailer made me lower my expectations
somewhat. There was something about it, though, that still made me want
to go see it, even if it turned out to be good for nothing except eye
candy. However, my initial skepticism went right out the window at the
stunning opening sequence, recounting the prologue in animation that
was part puppet theater, part illustration.Indeed, the visuals in this film are stunning, as are the costumes,
both of which are fully on display, but the actors are never
overwhelmed by their sumptuous surroundings. Julia Roberts is clearly
having a wonderful time as the kind of character she should have been
self-aware enough to play a long time ago. Lily Collins turns in a
sweet, earnest performance that comes off as the perfect compromise
between the traditional and "modern" fairytale princess. Her dedication
to what could have been a phoned-in ingénue is actually rather
impressive. The supporting cast wears somewhat thin (namely, a few of
the dwarfs), but the director thankfully realizes that this is a
fairytale, not a cartoon, and the audience is spared from most painful
mugging. The main weaknesses of the film, then, are the comedy and the
storyline. While I had plenty of giggles, and the dialogue isn't nearly
as bad as the trailer made it seem, between the dwarfs and the queen,
there are more than a few gags that get repeated over and over, and
lines that, depending on who you are, will elicit a chuckle or a groan.
While the Snow White story isn't altered radically, and most of the
revisions come off as embellishment, there are a handful of set pieces
that clash with the tone, and come off as contrived or pointless.
Still, several of the changes are more than welcome, even if they come
at the cost of the more iconic points of the story being overlooked.
For my part, I believe that this plucky Snow would handle the poison
apple scenario exactly the way she did here, and it made me smile to
see it in the finale. I'm a big fan of fairy tales, whimsy (in healthy doses), and visuals as
big as the imagination, so I recommend "Mirror Mirror" to fans of the
same, and appreciators of films like "Enchanted" and "MirrorMask". It's
a fun, heart-filled escapist artwork, good for more than a few
viewings.
