8
Knuck, knuck, knuck, knuck! I'm a victim of circumstance!

I'm what you would call a rare commodity: a female stooge fan. When I
was a little girl, every Sunday night from 1989 to 1994 there was a
stooge marathon on TV and my dad and I would have popcorn and ice cream
and just laugh the night away. I always wondered if it was nostalgia
that I loved the stooges so much, but I still as an adult get together
with my dad and will bring over a stooge DVD and watch it with him, his
wife and my fiancé and still laugh like if we were seeing it for the
first time. There was something so special about these guys who went
through anything just to make people smile and you could tell that they
loved doing so. They've inspired so many comedians today and a lot of
people still consider them to be the top dogs of comedy, they really
did create slap stick. So when I heard there was a movie coming out
where the stooges were going to be in today's world, I just cringed,
even more so when I learned it was the Farrelly brothers behind it,
they're a hit or miss team. But in the surprise of 2012, we got a great
comedy that I'm sure if the stooges were alive today would really enjoy
and that's because of the lead actors who held this film together and
had a lot of love and respect for these three knuckleheads.Ever since Moe, Larry, and Curly were dumped on the doorstep of the
Sisters of Mercy Orphanage, they have wreaked havoc on the place and
have left the nuns there scared. 25 years later, the trio is still
living there and attempting to help out, and taking care of the kids as
well. When they get wind the orphanage will be shutting down unless
they can come up with $830,000 in 30 days, the trio volunteers to go
out and try to raise the money somehow. A woman named Lydia is trying
to kill her husband, and offers to pay the trio the money they need to
take care of the job. However, they botch the job and leave the
supposed husband in traction in the hospital. When they try to visit to
finish the job, they are chased throughout the hospital and escape by
jumping off the roof using a fire hose. They end up running into a now
grown up Teddy, a boy they lost an adoptive family too, from the
orphanage, who invites them to his anniversary party. Turns out that
he's the actual husband they need to kill.What could've been a total flop turned into a very funny comedy and I
think the reason it worked was because the obvious love that Sean
Hayes, Will Sasso and Chris Diamantopoulos had for the stooges. The
jokes were perfect and even directly taken from some shorts. The
mannerisms were also on key and you almost believe it's the real Moe,
Larry and Curly on screen. Even the side characters were really funny
like Sofía Vergara, Jane Lynch and Stephen Collins. I liked how we
could see the stooges in an updated world where it's completely
different from the 1930's. The film has a couple flaws like how they
have this "heart to heart" with Moe which honestly was never apart of
the stooge shorts. I can understand they have to have conflict in the
movie, but it didn't work with the characters. Also there's an end
credit scene where they explain the gags. I completely understand where
they are coming from on this one, but really? After the film?! Why not
before the film have a little disclaimer? It was lame and I'm sorry, it
ruins the movie because it's like having James Cameron doing a scene
after Titanic saying how the ship was CGI and none of the actors were
actually hurt, it takes away from the film. Honestly, if you're too
ignorant to explain to your children the difference between fantasy and
film, you shouldn't be a parent. My dad explained all the gags to me
when I was a kid and on top of that what kid can pick up a 20 pound
hammer and hit someone in the head with it? OK, I end my rant on that.
However, I think this film was a pleasant surprise and a pleasure to
watch and I can't wait to add it to my stooge collection when it comes
on blu ray.8/10
