10
Tremendously Captures Exactly What The Book Intended To Convey

There are very few works of art (film, music, literature, etc.) that
truly scare me or leave me feeling unsettled. Reading Stephen King's
novel "Gerald's Game" was one of those rare experiences. This
adaptation, directed by Mike Flanagan, expertly captures the essence of
that creepy novel and puts it on the small screen. Earlier this fall, I
proclaimed "It" to be perhaps the best book-to-film adaptation I have
ever seen. With respect to that wonderful film in its own way, this one
is perhaps even better."Gerald's Game" tells the story of Gerald (Bruce Greenwood) & Jessie
(Carla Gugino) Burlingame, a middle-aged couple headed up to the lake
cabin for a romantic weekend. Right from the get-go, it is clear this
is a marriage on the rocks. To spice things up in the bedroom, Gerald
brings along some handcuffs that Jessie reluctantly allows to be put on
her as she is shackled to the bedposts. But then, the unthinkable
happens...Gerald gets a bit too rough, Jessie strenuously objects, and
Gerald suddenly clutches his chest and falls off the bed after having a
heart attack. This puts Jessie in quite a predicament: alone in a
secluded cabin, no one around for days, her husband dying on the floor,
and her chained to the bed at the mercy of the elements, her bodily
needs, and a meat-hungry stray dog that senses her ebbing strength. The
clincher: The Moonlight Moon shows up at night (he is real...or a
figment of her imagination?).What makes this such a compelling film is how it is able to to be
legitimately creepy while also telling a very smart and relevant story.
Jessie's predicament is terrifying in and of itself, but then things
become more layered as the film flashes back to her childhood in order
to better understand how she came to be in this marriage in the first
place. It's such a spot-on glimpse at how past traumas can manifest
themselves throughout one's life...until they have to be faced head on
(e.g. the situation Jessie finds herself in on that bed). There is not
a single wasted scene here, as everything has meaning either to the
plot or character development.In all honest, I think "Gerald's Game" could be a big stepping stone
for Netflix, as this is a movie that could have easily premiered in
theaters across the country and made millions. It is not just "good for
a Netflix show", but rather one of the top films I have seen in quite
some time. The fact that Netflix was able to produce something of this
utmost quality makes me trust them even more going forward.Thus, even with my high expectations (I loved the book, obviously),
this adaptation has quickly cemented itself as one of the top movies I
have ever seen. It tells a great story, has wonderful character
development supported by terrific acting, and is legitimately
unsettling at times even to seasoned cinema fans. If you have a Netflix
subscription, this 100% needs to be in your queue.
