9
Plenty of action and thrills to keep you entertained in a espionage thriller.

American Assassin is an action packed esponiage thriller that never
slows down and even shows that Dylan O'Brien can take on a stone cold
killer role. I was very impressed with the movie. Mitch (Dylan O'Brien) was on a Mediterranean trip with his girlfriend,
which he proposes on the beach. Until, a group of terrorists attack on
the beach by shooting at every civilian they see. Mitch witnesses his
girlfriend getting killed in the attack. A year or so later, Mitch
highly trained himself to go on a vengeance after the terrorists that
killed his girlfriend. He trained himself through MMA classes until he
gets kicked out for being brutal to the other opponent. He is skilled
with weaponry at a shoot range until he loses it and walks into the
shooting range. And he has a lead to the terrorists responsible. Only
to be followed and captured by the CIA. Who tends to recruit him led by
Stan (Michael Keaton). While they are on a mission trail in hunting a
terrorist that has stolen nuclear material which traces back to a rogue
agent named Ghost (Taylor Kitsch). Mitch will stop at nothing to
eliminate the threat even if it requires him to disobey his orders. American Assassin is that type of action film that entertains with
putting the main character into a revengeful path. It may not be a
memorable plot or worth mentioning. But it is exciting to see a gritty,
brutal Dylan O'Brien taking out bad guys. I wont be surprised if this
will be his franchise just like there are other spy action movies like
Bond or Jason Bourne. The action sequences are brutal; the fight scenes
are quick and gritty. Mitch Rapp never holding back in letting a bad
guy escape. It is fun to see Dylan O'Brien going through several action
set pieces in trying to stop the villain from setting off a nuclear
bomb. Dylan O'Brien may have found his calling in an action franchise. I am
glad he did instead of being stuck in the Teen Wolf series. And growing
up to be a brute mean machine as a stone cold killer. He is good as an
action star and as well as in the Maze Runner movies. Michael Keaton
was also good as Mitch Rapp's trainer into the CIA. Sanaa Lathan was
also good as Irene, who sees Mitch as a good potential in there team.
Taylor Kitsch was good as the villain, who was once in the marines and
went rogue against what he stood for. Like all else, the plot is forgettable. It is kind of an origin story
with Mitch Rapp going on a brute path in finding bad guys on his own
until he gets recruited. I am sure this plot has been done too many
times in other spy action movies. Were the main hero goes in every set
piece trying to track down were the bomb is. Or where the bad guy is.
And the villain is a rogue agent. I am sure, there are some Jack Ryan
movies that may have been similar. Overall, American Assassin is a really good film. There is plenty of
shoot them up action and brutal fight sequences with Dylan O'Brien
taking on an action hero role. It definitely is a great start to a
franchise, if this was a success. Sure, the plot may have its flaws of
being similar or nothing memorable. But it's just pure action packed
entertainment. I rate the film 4.5 out of 5 stars.
