1
Predictable Guy Ritchie...

OK I'm just gonna say it. This contains "spoilers" but honestly.. there
just isn't much to spoil in the first place. But here we go...-------------------------------------------------------'First of all lets talk about the first 10 minutes of the movie and the
trailer. To be honest i loved the first minutes of the movie but that's
just because most of the cool things you see in the trailer happen in
the first 10 minutes. The movie starts off by giving you the impression
that this movie is gonna have a huge war in it with mystical creatures
(in this scenario it was elephants the size of Manhattan skyscrapers)
and thousands of soldiers fighting and warlocks and a bunch of cool
s#!t like that. But after those first 10 minutes the typical Guy Richie
comes in and everything is downhill from there...Now we all know the movies the director is famous for.. snatch, lock
stock, Sherlock Holmes. These movies are fast paced with fun dialogue
and fantastic storytelling that suits those movies just fine. With this
movie it just somehow doesn't fit. When you think about King Arthur u
think about noblemen and heroics and fighting for the little man. Now
there are some moments in the movie where Arthur shows he cares about
someone other than himself and has a chance to me humble but then it
gets ruined because Guy Ritchie needs his characters to be funny and
"know it all-y" (not a word I know but..).Not lets talk about the other characters. After seeing the movie I
don't actually know the name of any other character other than Arthur.
Because you just didn't give a s#!t. If every character that had been
introduced (even though there where practically no introductions for
any of them) had been killed at some point in the movie I wouldn't have
cared because you never got a chance to get to know them at all. Not
that these characters were interesting at all to begin with. Very flat
and boring characters. Bad acting and very bat material. Which brings me to the script. The script itself was very bad as well.
An example. One of Arthurs friends is laying on the floor in a
building. The guys son comes in and pretends to work there. The king
puts a knife to the throat of Arthurs friend. Arthur comes in and puts
a knife to the throat of one of the soldiers in the kings army. Arthur
is standing in the doorway and the kid is there with him. Arthur has a
knife to the soldiers throat because the king has a knife to his
friends throat. The king then slits his friends throat... and Arthur
lets the soldier go? Why? It makes now sense at all. Another thing,
every single "action" scene in this movie, and there are very few of
those, are cut short by editing or just plain and simple very bad
directing by Guy Ritchie. The camera angle and everything is just s#!t
almost every single time. Everything interesting in this movie is cut
short because of s#!tty directing.There is a moment in the movie where Arthur has to go to the shadow
lands, or some s#!t like that (i don't remember the name), to... well i
don't know why exactly it was but i recall it being about him
connecting better to the sword or something. Anyway he goes to she
shadow lands and its like a big deal that he is going there because its
supposedly very dangerous. He goes there and the director gives us
about a minute to see all the amazing creatures Arthur fought, now mind
you.. we don't actually see him fighting any of them, he just shows us
clips and cuts and then in one minute hes back from the dreadful shadow
lands and we saw nothing of it and he is no closer to the sword than he
was when he went in there...I can write for another hour but in conclusion the best thing about the
movie is Eric Bana and he dies after 5 minutes so...Worst movie iv'e seen of the year.ps. And you can't have a king Arthur film without Merlin.. I mean what
is that?
