1
Almost as terrible as the book.

It's a mistake to recruit the author to do the screenplay - they are
too emotionally invested, and if they aren't known for writing scripts
the disparity in quality can be obvious. Take The Exorcist III for
example. Or Gone Girl.The Gone Girl novel was a lavishly praised exercise in cryptic
dialogue, high school prose, and incompetent storytelling that defies
conventional formula. Unfortunately, you can only defy the formula and
get away with it if you are very good. Gillian Flynn just isn't. Her characters speak with bizarre, hyperactive energy that made me feel
breathless just from reading it. It's like listening to someone recall
a fond memory at a party - a memory that nobody else cares about. It's
inexplicably cryptic. It's not how people talk, and you can tell that
on screen Ben Affleck and Rosamund Pike don't really know what to make
of their lines. Their sentences are too long, too wild, too verbose.
They talk like stage actors fresh out of drama school. The supporting
cast are also similarly lost - the two detectives especially. The
female cop is just a frustrating "loose-
cannon-independent-woman/symbol-of-women's-suffrage" poster girl. She
talks fast and drinks coffee - black, no doubt (Yawn). Her male partner
just seems to follow her around like a lost dog and nod agreeably with
everything she says - three cheers for women's rights! Down with the
glass ceiling! You might as well slap a domestic violence advertisement in the
credits.The lack of tension evident in Flynn's writing translates well to the
screen. Your nails will not be bitten to fleshy stubs watching Gone
Girl. More likely you'll end up filing them into neat, buffed arches
out of boredom. Fincher can't elevate the inherent drabness of the
source material. He, like the rest of the cast, seem to misunderstand
the script. They just "don't get it." Gone Girl is one of those
wrongly-praised cause celebres. People are too keen to jump on the
bandwagon after learning about the *gasp* "shock twist" in the final
act (that is hardly shocking, original, or interesting). Re-watch some of Fincher's better work instead. If you've already
invested money in the novel, take solace in knowing it is the perfect
size for a doorstop, and about as entertaining.
