2
"Do your thing, cuz!"

Even on second viewing three and a half years later, the above line is
still one of the most cringe-worthy I have ever heard.I rated 'Texas Chainsaw' 2/10 back in January 2013 and I stand by my
rating after watching it a second time. Even though it looks good, has
a creepy atmosphere (at least in and around grandma's house) and some
nice splatter scenes to offer plus a beautiful lead actress (Alexandra
Daddario) going for it, this movie is an absolute mess.First off, a real problem with 'Texas Chainsaw' is the fact that it
takes place in the present but still is supposed to be a direct sequel
to the original 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre' (1974). We know that the
events in the first movie took place in 1973 and Heather was a little
baby at that time. 'Texas Chainsaw' supposedly takes place in October
of 2012 (grandma's day of death is September 29, 2012 according to her
tombstone). That would make Heather 39 but she looks to be in her early
twenties at the most. We see a number of townspeople and the sheriff in
the scenes that take place in 1973 and they don't look much older later
on in the present-day scenes, let alone 40 years older.So when you watch the movie and do the math, you probably come to the
conclusion that the movie must be taking place in 1993 or something.
Heather's boyfriend drives an old Volkswagen bus and there are no
cellphones or computers to be seen. The early '90s scenario seems
plausible for about half of the movie until one of the sheriff's guys
pulls out an iPhone and live streams his search of grandma's house. Now
the timeline is completely ruined and the people who made 'Texas
Chainsaw' knew it.When you closely observe the movie, you will notice a few times when we
see the date "August 19" but the year "1973" is not shown on purpose.
One time we see the date on an old newspaper but the year is smudged
out. Another time we see it on a tombstone but the year is obscured by
grass. Very curious indeed. There is however one time where the
complete date "08/18/1973" can be seen on a police report. That was
probably overlooked. All this is distracting and it makes you wonder
but I wouldn't consider it a major flaw if the movie was otherwise
good. Nevertheless, it would have been a much better idea to have the
movie take place in the early '90s to not mess up the continuity.Another problem with 'Texas Chainsaw' are Heather's friends, who must
be some of the most generic supporting characters ever. That's probably
why they are killed off early on. The evil town people are not much
better. The acting is mediocre at best but that is a relatively minor
issue compared to the horrendous script with its thin and ludicrous
plot.It's incredible how anyone would approve a script that constitutes
Leatherface's murderous family as victims of the bad townspeople. It is
completely ridiculous that Leatherface, a notorious mindless murder
machine, in this installment of the series is depicted as a poor
backward guy who is just out for a little revenge on the people who did
him and his family wrong years ago. Sure, he kills mostly just innocent
people on his way to revenge, but he doesn't know any better, right?
Insanity! Leatherface always was a cold-blooded killer, nothing else.
He didn't have an agenda in the previous movies. He just killed.
Period.'Texas Chainsaw' tries to depict Leatherface as a kind of victim and
fails badly at it. The fact that Heather bonds with cousin Leatherface
the way it is shown here after he just chopped up all of her friends
doesn't make sense at all. She actually begs the sheriff not to shoot
poor Leatherface and what's even more unbelievable is that he complies.
Yes, the sheriff indeed lets Leatherface go after he rampaged at the
town fair, brutally murdered a couple of innocent people and gruesomely
cut up one of the sheriff's own men.Not enough lunacy? The sheriff just tells Heather and Leatherface to
clean up the mess and walks away from the crime scene. What gives?!
Nobody in their right mind would act like Heather and the sheriff do
here. I tell you, nobody. Such a behavior is far from believable and
almost an insult to anyone's intelligence. Maybe a plot as ridiculous
as this would work if it was done as a horror comedy, but 'Texas
Chainsaw' is dead serious and that makes it all the more bizarre.The only scene that is really good is a very short one that comes after
the closing credits: Heather's foster parents ring at her door talking
about how much they love her now that she has money and then
Leatherface comes out of the house swinging his chainsaw. Sure, it's a
pretty stupid idea that Heather would actually let Leatherface kill off
the people that raised her for many years even after finding out what
they did, but the tongue-in-cheek way it is done in this short scene
makes it really funny. Sadly, there is nothing of this funniness in the
actual movie. I reckon the movie could have been much better if it was
done in that over-the-top style similar to 'The Texas Chainsaw Massacre
2' (1986).'Texas Chainsaw' needs the audience to take a plot seriously that just
can't be taken seriously and that is the big problem. It doesn't work.
I'm sure most people have a facepalm-feeling at the end of the movie. I
certainly would be surprised if you don't cringe when you hear "Do your
thing, cuz!"
