2
Oh dear! More stupid, dumb, gullible "professionals" in space!

First let me get something out of the way, I apologise for the cretins
who compare this film with such masterpieces as Alien, Aliens or any of
the first 4 Alien films which are vastly superior to this piece of
tripe. This film should be compared to the equally disturbing and lame
"Prometheus", but those bunch of retards, sorry "astronauts" in that
film obviously went to the same space academy as this sorry bunch of
losers. My jaw just hit the floor from the very start of this pathetic
effort. Catching containers from Mars like you were fishing for
Sticklebacks in a pond? Are you ****in kidding me? Then scientist guy
starts playing with an ALIEN life form like he's just picked a bogey
out of his nose! While wearing kitchen gloves! I don't know about you
but that thing was doing some freaky sheet and these are just a few
things that would of concerned me: Does it bite, stab, explode, give
off gases, radiate any sort of energy, could it control your brain?
Before that thing started turning into a mini transformer and going for
a mooch I would of been long gone and phoning home for a ticket back.
When little alien called "Calvin" ...... (No I'm not making this up!)
Decides to grab scientists arm and act all hostile (Due to Calvin
having a nap, to be rudely woken up by being ELECTROCUTED) another of
the brain dead astronauts wants to go in and rescue him! Later on
Calvin is crawling all over Jap guy and two fellow crew are trying to
pull him towards them into their part of the station? WHY? Just so much
of this awful logic defying stuff is going on that I just couldn't take
anymore. I was just wishing for Calvin to finish off these goons as
soon as possible and I had a chuckle to myself every time one bit the
dust. I vote 2 because the ending was so satisfying. If these bunch of
sad goons represent the pinnacle of human achievement, the whole
species can die. I would call this film "Prometheus 2 - squid takes out
pathetic humans again"
