5
Life doesn't work like that!

First of all I want to say I really wanted to like this movie. I know
it's a romantic comedy and it's not my favorite thing to watch but it
has its moments. The trailer of this movie made me really want to watch
it, a story about two depressed people whom meet up. As a person who
has been depressed and suicidal for a large part my life this movie
seemed like something that could bring up the frustration of being
depressed and mentally ill. But was it? No, not at all. It made it a
silly and meaningless plot point and it dumbed down feeling mentally
ill to a small thing that doesn't matter and everyone can get over it
in easy if they just want to. The movie begins great, the main character is being released from the
mental institution. He wants nothing else than to get back together
with his wife. He isn't sick he is functioning on a good level and
hasn't realised that it is over. No one tries to have a sit down with
him and tell him straight out that it's over. If they had done that
this whole movie would have been done. They treat him like a five year
old that no one wants to correct! And then there is the female main
character, she is weird in fun way so it makes people laugh, but is it?
No, her character is stupid. No one talks like this in the real world!
Who wrote this dialogue? It's horrible, it's written by someone that
have watched too many romantic movies and seriously believe just having
a small thing in common makes them the best damn couple ever!The main character's sickness is like a funny joke. I wanted some
emotions, I could just think how much I hated him. He has one small
breakdown and nothing else. 5 minutes is what sets up his whole
character. If they hadn't said that in the beginning of the movie I
would have never noticed. I would just think he was heart broken and
wanted to get back together with his wife. No emotions at all! That is
suppose to be the movie, struggling with emotions and mental sickness!
Not having a god damn dance contest and at the end he declares his love
for the girl! It was obvious it would happen that was not the problem,
it's a romantic movie what did I expect? But they are not building up
to it. "Oh, I have been obsessed with my wife this whole time but when
I saw her I realised I didn't care about her, I care about you that I
haven't shown any emotions to before!" Give me some emotions for god's
sake, who the wrote this piece of garbage!? And the stupid plot point
of having a big ass bet that the whole family relied on being a big
deal and they are trying to push it like it's a big risk and no one
knows what is going to happen, but we all know! This movie is so
obvious with everything! I understand it's obvious, it's a romantic
comedy. But give me a great journey and story of how/why they end up
together! Give me some emotions between the choice of choosing between
the wife and the new girl. It just happens in this movie it just does,
whit no explanation to why/how he made the decision. The whole movie
end with that if you get a girlfriend ALL of your troubles will go away
and EVERYTHING will be perfect, LIFE DOESN'T WORK LIKE THAT! This movie
was made by people who has never had any emotional illness at all and
that shows.The movie is either average or horrible. The acting is average nothing
really bad and nothing good. The dialogue is horrible, no person in
real life would talk like this! The plot is interesting but the
execution is horrible, they butchered the plot, no tension or struggle
at all and it just flows in a bad way with a absolutely breath taking
dumb ending. It had so much potential. The reason some romantic movies
are good is because they the character needs to go through something
emotional or make a hard decision in their lives. But nothing like that
happens, the plot points just happens. I am maybe repeating myself here
a lot but it really REALLY bothers me. How could this movie get Oscars
nominated? When movies like Cloud Atlas or the great Joss Whedon gets
left out completely. My final thoughts are: it could have been something great, a movie to
be seen as the great romantic movie of this decade but it failed so
hard in the writing and directing it is just horrible to watch.
