1
The real trick was making so many great actors so terrible.

I'm just after leaving an advance showing of Now You See Me and I think
it was horrendously bad. Just awful, truly terrible in so many areas,
some being:Dialogue- This reeked of laziness. Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine's
dialogue especially. It was wooden, inauthentic and the sort of
dialogue that was so obvious that a child could figure it out from the
context in the film. If they needed to say have the dialogue that was
being said in this film, weeeeeellll, you're doing it wrong. Subtext
anyone?Characterisation- Again, really lazy. Every single character in the
film was one dimensional with not even a HINT of a human variability or
individuality. If some is a 'baddie', all he does is bad things. The
'romantic interest' runs around after our protagonist lovingly. The
Four Horsemen magicians also I couldn't have cared less for. Worse
still, I didn't care about a single thing any of them did.Plot- I thought about this on the way to my car after leaving. Few
major flaws. One, there was no tension at all for pretty much all of
the film. You had the Four Horsemen magicians running about like Robin
Hood and you were kinda rooting for them somewhat. Then, two, you had
Ruffalo and the French lady running around trying to catch them, who
you were also kind of behind too. There was only one real 'baddie' in
Michael Caine but he was a cursory villain and not the main event
really. Ruffalo's 'revenge' against the safe maker whose faulty safe
killed his father was pulled out of nowhere. Even at the end there was
no alteration in the states of our characters. The good guys stayed
good just like they'd been at the start (why did I watch this film
again?). Cinematography- This wasn't as bad the elements above but there was
definitely a spot when Ruffalo was in New Orleans standing street level
among cars when I probably physically squinted and thought 'sweet lord,
what is this film trying to do to me?'.Overall, I'd say avoid this film. Weak writing, weak performances from
great actors (who i don't blame), pointless plot. Worst film I've seen
in a while. Sorry :(
