10
Contains all the pain and heart of the novel

Ten out of ten. Other viewers can complain all they want about this
film being 'tedious' or 'bland', or slightly missing the mark or
opportunity, but I strongly disagree. Makes me wonder if they got the
true point of the novel, even. Stephen King is NOT a horror writer, so
much as he is a writer of characters and extraordinary events that they
go through, and most importantly, he writes about the deep emotional
experiences that people endure in their lifetimes here on this earth.
He tends to throw in dark elements, to be certain, and some of those
are downright creepy, frightening, or straight-up horrific; this does
not make him a horror writer. And anyone expecting a horror film here
will subsequently be disappointed and, I guess, apparently bored. I was
not bored, I was riveted the entire time. It's not easy to do what Mike
Flanagan does with this adaptation. He nails the mental struggles and
fractured psyche of the main character, Jessie, under the strain of
what she faces. He also delivers on the heart of King's story, which
isn't the present situation she finds herself in as an adult, but
rather, dealing with secrets and ghosts from her past that have haunted
her all her life, without her truly even knowing 'til her current
situation arises. It's a beautiful novel of pain, suffering, secrets,
abuse (on multiple levels, by multiple people), and the struggle to not
just survive, but also heal and thrive, if possible. Flanagan's film
captures the heart of King's story, and it is beautifully rendered, and
many scenes are equally visually stunning. I cried at the end of the
movie. Bruce Greenwood and Carla Gugino turn in excellent performances,
among the best I've seen from both of them. Henry Thomas is equally and
fittingly gross. Very well done. Even younger Jessie, played by Chiara
Aurelia, was exacted with nuanced grace and heartbreak. This is just a
terrific movie. And I find every scene featuring Carel Struycken to be
extremely creepy, so I'm not certain how other reviewers find this
movie lacking in creep value. I just can't disagree more. I love this
movie, it's instantly and already in my top fifteen, maybe even my top
ten favorite films of all time. Well done. I'll be watching this one
more than once.
