2
Unnecessary Creedence Revival

This HAS to be the year of nostalgia with the Original Star Wars
trilogy remake, the Return to Jurassic Park Reboot and the memory of
1960's Bond in Spectre. But, the one I never asked for, nor anyone
really needed, was to see Rocky XXXVIII.But…since so many people kept asking my opinion on it and how many rave
reviews I've heard that might equate Oscar buzz, I decided to check it
out. I am sorry I did.Not that the movie's ineptly made, it's just an incredible retread of
countless boxing movies before it. Hell, it even played homage to all
the previous Rocky training montages before it…and repeatedly. Over and
over. Half way through I was ready to give up with the extreme number of
clichés and unoriginal ideas/paths, but figured the second half HAS to
be better since so many people loved it so much.Nope. The second half was just as dull and the same old story. In fact,
once the climax hit – the obligatory finale in any of these boxing
movies – I had completely tuned out. Not only did I know how it would
pan out, I didn't care one bit.This movie had one singular fresh idea (son of former boxing champ in
the Rocky series, Apollo Creed, is introduced) but every single other
minute was unoriginal and predictable from six scenes leading up. It
was so by the numbers, it's a wonder anyone even cared to even mention
the movie to me. I wish someone would tell me how this movie is so
great and stands out from every other boxing film. Okay, the lead, Michael B. Jordan was decent, but he was just playing
his role in this "should've been made-for-Lifetime-TV movie." Sylvester
Stallone has reinvented himself many, many years ago, as an aging
action star, and now he's completely beyond that. It's getting old and
perhaps it's time, Sly…I guess if you're heavily into boxing, boxing movies AND just want to
see the exact same movie you've seen countless times before, you might
like it. Otherwise, it's an extreme waste of more than two hours.
