7
"She continued to see the world not as it is, but as it could be"

I have always identified with Cinderella, so I was delighted to find
another version of the classic fairy tale on a transatlantic flight to
Germany this past weekend. This is a truly beautiful version of the tale, and I wouldn't have
expected anything less from director Kenneth Branagh. I've never seen a rendition of the story that provides background about
the lovely and sensitive Ella, her beloved mother who died way too
young, and the father with whom she had a loving bond, and who dies way
before his prime. It seems that in this version, Ella's father chooses to remarry for
strictly sexual reasons, as the woman who becomes Ella's stepmother
(Cate Blanchett) is pretty on the outside but gruesome psychologically. "Have courage and be kind," had been Ella's mother's parting words to
her dear daughter. And Ella takes the advice to heart as she tries to
survive as "odd man out" under the contemptuous oversight of her
stepmother and ignorant and crude stepsisters. "Time passed, and pain turned to memory," we're told via the classic
story-book voice-over. Ella's an exceedingly sensible and upright young woman. Asked by her
father what she would like for him to bring from what would be a
journey without return, she says: "Bring me the first branch your
shoulder brushes on your journey." A nature lover after my own heart!In the wake of her mother's parting counsel, Cinderella decides to do
as told, allowing domestic chores to distract from her grief. Blanchett turns in a vicious portrayal of a jealous and threatened
harridan. She tries to keep her gifted ward down, but will never be
able to prevail: "You are a ragged servant girl. That is what you will
always be." I have always loved this story of a young woman who is down but not out
for the count. (I recall the words of a blues singer I heard recently
in New York City's subway system: "I just keep movin', even when I'm
losin'".) Perhaps the best film version of this tale is the first I ever saw,
that which aired on TV in the early Sixties -- the superb musical
rendition by Rogers and Hammerstein. (I also enjoyed its decades- later
multicultural version starring Brandi and Whitney Houston.) This story inspires not only because of the resilience of Cinderella.
Also compelling is the portrait of a prince with the ability to
appreciate a good woman when he sees her -- a man who will stop at
nothing to find the love of his life. (Where is there a woman who
doesn't find this story enchanting?) The eccentric actress Helena Bonham Carter turns in a quirky portrayal
of the fairy godmother here. I liked that she is bumming around in a
comfy, older guise when conjured by Cinderella, only seemingly getting
into fairy gear when she's ready to work her pumpkin magic. There were many touching scenes in this film that brought tears and
thoughts about the best things in life. This is a highly recommended
film for anyone who wants to believe that true love is possible,
despite the wait. Also, bravo, Kenneth! I love your support of the Bard, but old- school
folk stories like this one will never lose their appeal. At heart we
humans will never tire of a universal tale.
