8
Krampus is exactly what we need.

I first heard of the story of Krampus from a Christmas episode of
American Dad!, and I've been surprised that none of the reviews I
watched online for this film mentioned that since it's the one of the
only times Krampus is mentioned in pop culture. Perhaps now that this
movie is out, we will hear more about him. I sure hope so, because this
is the perfect Christmas tale for the kids and families out there. It's
a story that we could all benefit from, in fact.The film starts out by showing us the insanity that we all know as
Christmas shopping. It's all about how materialism and family strife
can wreak havoc on our emotions during holidays. The problems all
trickle down to the children, who should really be enjoying and
celebrating the season instead of getting caught up in the stress the
adult deal with. So, our main character rips up his letter to Santa,
and wishes for all of this to be over with. Krampus, being the evil side of Christmas, grants the wish. The
characters are slowly plunged into a horror story. Their Christmas
story becomes a story of survival. Will they be able to get along for
the sake of surviving Christmas? There were only a few things that I really had a problem with. That's
why it gets an 8 instead of a 9 or 10. The first reason comes from the
fact that I am a serious horror fan, and felt disappointed at the lack
of blood and gore in the film. That reason may keep some genre fans
away, but also makes the film more accessible to the kid and family
audience, whom the film is really for. The other problem I had with the
film was with the editing during the scenes with Krampus' helpers,
because it was quite jumpy and made it hard to see everything going on
the entire time.Again, this is a good movie. I highly recommend it as one of the best
new family Christmas movies. Krampus is exactly what we need to balance
out the holiday. This will definitely be remembered as more than just
another holiday themed horror movie. It will, hopefully, become a
staple for Christmas viewing.
