10
Thrill-ride that gives you everything you wanted from the first film, but didn't get!

How could a sequel to a film that was released exactly one year ago be
any good? This was the question I asked myself as I tiredly sat in line
pondering whether I should just go home and wait till at the very
least, it's theatrical release. Especially considering the first Purge
was somewhat of a let down for me. I guess it's because the first one
was purely exciting and terrifying because the idea was so perverse. It
was the idea that really sold the tickets, but the film itself, seemed
to not deliver to the expectations. After watching The Purge: Anarchy, it became very clear why.In the first film, we were sold by all the trailers, which successfully
put the idea in our heads, leaving us brainwashed and nightmare-ring
about "what would I do?" The first film focused on a wealthy neighborhood and a wealthy family
with an unlimited supply of resources. A storyline showcasing that all
the money in the world couldn't protect them from The Purge But in all
honestly, could the average horror viewer relate to that situation or
anyone for that matter?This is where the sequel comes in to blow the roof off the first film.
Where the first film failed, Purge: Anarchy not only resolves, but also
opens up a whole new realm of fear I had not strung together under the
circumstances. The sequel puts into perspective the idea of what the purge would look
like from multiple story lines that are not only realistic and
relatable but are nonstop and completely unpredictable. I was on the
edge of my seat the entire film, beginning to end. Very rarely do I get
scared once a movie is over, but I was a hot mess on the way home
especially coming down from the adrenaline high from being visually
anxious for almost 2 hours straight!There were so many things I loved about this film. The characters were
all very well written, most of which were wildcards and constantly
keeping the audience guessing. I was incredibly impressed that the film
knew how to be violent without being gratuitous. There were so many
scenes that could have easily been bloody and gross, but they kept it
conservative enough that it made you rely on your imagination, which
often made the film much more horrifying in my opinion.It's been some time since I got this excited over a film in the theater
but I really can't say a single bad thing about this incredible thrill-
ride. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND seeing this film ASAP! The sound of that
machine gun still haunts me 2 weeks later GO SEE IT NOW!
