1
God-awful movie that makes Prometheus look like a brilliant sci-fi movie

This has to be the worst sci-fi movie I have ever seen (and trust me I
have seen a lot). It is an insult to anyone with just half a brain. But
let me give you a little taste of this gem:It starts off with a capsule with a soil probe from Mars on its way to
Earth that is out of control due to a crash with little meteorites. The
ISS, where the probe should be processed, has to catch it manually,
which they do by means of an extendable arm. Okay. I wont go into the
physics off this, but if you have ever seen how much energy is set free
when a car crashes into something with 100km/h relative velocity, you
should know that such a catching maneuver is bound to go south (not
even talking about the problem of maintaining a space station in
geostationary orbit with nothing but little jet nozzles whilst trying
to get it into a configuration such that it has low relative velocity
with respect to a capsule that is headed straight for Earth with
something like 20000km/h). Mind you, at this point we are 5 minutes
into the movie and the science was already thrown out of the window.Fast forward. We are in the CDC approved lab, which is a plexiglass
shielded section of the ISS with nothing but a plexiglass door without
any further safety precautions. Inside this section is a glove box,
where they keep the probe. Turns out the probe contains life which has
been idle for about 4 billion years without decaying (obviously entropy
doesn't apply to aliens). Well, how about we try to wake it without
further investigation? Yeah, let's do that.Fast forward. It has grown to a hand-sized organism, but has fallen
into a slumber again. It's still inside the glove box and attacks the
biologist who tried to wake it by electrocuting it. It breaks his tool
and his hand, which causes him to faint, and leads to its escape from
the box by means of using the broken tool to cut open the glove of the
glove box. (yeah, it only took earth's organisms like 3 billion years
to learn to use tools, this thing does it in less than 12 hours). But
fear not, whilst the life form is busy eating a rat, a colleague hops
in the lab and pulls the biologist out. Surprise, surprise, the
organism latches on him, so that the other guys have to seal him into
the lab. He tries to burn the organism with an oxygen torch and with a
flame thrower (which they obviously have ready to use on a space
station, ofc). Welp, it doesn't help, this carbon-water-based organism
is immune to fire (hey, because chemistry doesn't apply to aliens,
didn't you know?). Subsequently, the organism kills him and eats him
from the inside. The fire has caused the air vents to open, which
somehow can only be closed one by one, and gives the organism time to
flee.Jup, we are not even 20 minutes into this masterpiece but the stupidity
is mind-boggling. I could keep on writing about a lot more of this
utterly dumb movie (like the organism being able to survive in space
for prolonged times, the space station being out of fuel just at a time
where it is convenient for the "plot", the organism drinking toxic
liquid coolant, the space station going on a descent right after it has
been pushed outward on an ascending course (because screw logic),
etc.), but let me finish by saying that in the end of the movie this
organism has figured out how to read instruments in an escape pod, how
to steer said escape pod and how to safely reenter it into earth's
atmosphere, all whilst fighting the astronaut in the escape pod. (Which
was tried to be masked as plot twist. but you could see that one from a
mile away). And although it has killed every astronaut basically on
sight, it decided to leave this last one in the escape pod alive with
itself latched to him. Wanna know why? Because it has anticipated that,
despite it successfully completing the landing of a space ship, it
won't be able to open the door of the escape pod and someone on the
outside has to do it for it. Which some fisher men actually do, despite
the fact that they can clearly see that inside the pod there is a
bloody, heavily injured astronaut with a man-sized alien octopus
attached to it.I urge you to not go to watch this movie. Waste of time and money. I
have suffered through it. No need for you to suffer too.
