9
Calvinist terrors abound in this fraught "folk tale"

"The Witch" charts a family of Calvinist dissenters in colonial America
who are exiled from their community and homestead at the edge of an
ominous forest. When the infant child of the family disappears
inexplicably, a chain of increasingly bizarre events lead to claims of
witchcraft and sorcery that implode the family.Based on the plot summary, much about "The Witch" seems fairly
predictable, and that's because it is. Robert Eggers makes no bones
about reality or superstition here; this is, as it is branded, a "New
England folktale" through and through. It's also allegorical on some
levels, and is about an English family's failure to conquer the vast
American frontier. Regardless of how it is read, the film's surface
plays out like classic accounts of witchcraft and superstition that
pervaded Puritan Calvinism in the seventeenth century.What director Eggers does here is weave a taut and unsettling narrative
through a series of meditative visuals and haunting encounters with
evil--some have said not much happens in the film, and they're
right--but is that the point of such a tale? The story is mediated
through phenomenal performances that are the real emotional center of
the film, while rare but fantastical occurrences with the supernatural
jar the audience as much they do the family.Eggers' direction is remarkable, and the cinematography consistently
captures the gloom of a New England winter; close-ups show the younger
children engaging with their ominous farm goat, while pans of
characters venturing into the woods create a legitimate sense of
danger--and that is another of the film's prevailing themes. In the
film, the threat of danger lurks in all matter, be it in the natural
environment, in doctrine, or the horrifying corporeal locus where the
two meet.Overall, "The Witch" is a surprising and moody entry in the horror
genre for 2016; it is not only recalling classicism in its period
setting and narrative, but also in its cinematic approach to
storytelling. It is old-fashioned in just about every way, but is no
less masterful at creeping into the skin as insidiously as evil does
within the family. We feel their terror, their desperation, and their
yearning for absolution; and that is what makes the film such an
effective mood piece. 9/10.
