6
A bit of A Disappointment Storywise

I had 50/50 hopes for this movie and felt a bit bummed out when it was
told that it will be delayed to March 2013 but I thought maybe it was
for the best so I decided to give it chance. Now after nearly a year of
waiting, I have to say I was a bit disappointedFirst off, they promised to explain what happened to the characters in
the previous film that didn't show up (ripcord, Scarlett etc.) but no
explanation was given whatsoever as well as wanting to strengthen Duke
and Baroness character but nothing was ever explained. 2nd storywise,
it was not that very interesting in my opinion and there some parts
which I find a bit illogic and not explained like how did Storm Shadow
survive. The guy just like appeared out of no whereCharacter wise, Cobra rules compared to the Joes. Lady Jaye and Flint
were not really that interesting to watch and the romance between them
didn't really look that convincing. Killing off Duke Hauser (Channing
Tatum)and letting Roadblock (The Rock) take over as team leader for me
was the biggest letdown in my opinion since he never really looked that
great playing the lead role. Bruce Willis was OK a Joe but nothing
exciting but for me the best Joe out there would have to be Snake Eyes
(Ray Park). His performances were great as usual and really made the
movie looked excitingAs for the villains, I really wanted to see Zartan fight with somebody
but that didn't happen. Destro was the biggest disappointment for me
since they killed his character off just like that. Cobra Commander
looked better in this outfit that the previous one but there was really
nothing from him but in my opinion, the best villain and character of
the entire movie has got to go to Firefly (Ray Stevenson) His character
was so wicked cool and I really loved how those nano flys were used as
his explosion device. Though a villain, he stood out the most in the
film for me I can't say much for the rest of the cast like Storm Shadow
and Jinx since there wasn't really anything much from themHowever I find it kind of hard to believe that this is a G.I Joe movie
since apart from Snake Eyes, there wasn't really anything that made me
feel that these guys were the G.I Joes since it felt like there were
very little connection between this team to the previous G.I Joe team
in the first movieOverall a bit of a letdown compared to the first movie and it didn't
seemed like it was a sequel to the first G.I Joe movie and it wasn't
really worth watching it in 3D either
