5
I really wanted it to be good, but it's mostly a mess, with great visuals.

Let's start off with me saying that I loved the source material when I
read it a few years ago, and when I saw that it's gonna get a movie
adaptation I was really hyped for it. This movie had every chance of
being something amazing, the book it's based on, the director, the cast
would all be amazing, but somehow they messed the whole thing up. They changed parts of the book without thinking how it would effect the
whole story, there are scenes in the trailer that are completely
missing from the movie, and they didn't put enough time into character
development. The first half showed some potential, but in the end there
were multiple plot lines left hanging without much explanation. Plus
they totally dumbed down the killer and his motivation, and messed up
the killer reveal(that was really well done in the book, at least in my
opinion), and the endgame. The killer runs away with Harry's loaded
gun, but Harry the super-detective doesn't think that he might come
back and shoot them, so he unties Rakel and Oleg to have a little
emotional time....And then he runs out to chase down the killer who
could just be hiding around the house to shoot him in the back, but no.
Harry just goes after him, although he has no idea which way the killer
might have gone. And when he catches up he gets shot, and he starts
discussing that the killer has a wrong ideology just so he would walk
closer. But why did the killer have to take a few more steps at the
end? He could have shot Harry from that range easily, but no, he had to
go really close, so he can fall into that conveniently placed hole in
the ice and die. Oh and I just absolutely loved that they teased the
adaptation for The Leopard, but seeing how this movie fell on its face
I highly doubt that we'll see that happen soon, or maybe ever. I expected more from Tomas Alfredson, although it's not entirely his
fault how this turned out. But at least you can see the beautiful
landscapes of Norway, right?
