8
It's hard to describe... really, I don't know if I liked it or not.

The Croods... there is a lot to say about this movie. The movie is
unlike any animated movie I have seen, which is weird because one
wouldn't suspect that BECAUSE it is like so many other animated movies
but ISN'T! The Croods steps into a weird territory where it does a lot
of things familiar but then does all of the familiar things in a nearly
unrecognizable manner. This is why I consider this movie a good movie
because it is one of the ONLY animated movies that really confuses
me... and I'm not easily confused.The movie starts off with explaining that The Croods are the last of
what was once a neighborhood of cavemen. Sadly, all died, so now the
Croods stick by the rules and live in fear. What makes this movie
ingenious is that it doesn't know who the main character is. Eep seems
like the main character, but Grug gets a lot of screen-time as well.
Also, the movie was very smart. Grug could've been the bad guy. He
could've had no redeeming features. HOWEVER, it is established early on
that the only reason any of them are alive is because of his strength
and endurance to keep everyone alive. Grug isn't smart, but he will
risk his life and do anything to keep his family safe. Heck, he even
doesn't eat food for over a week just so that his family can eat. That
is a loving father. This is one of the reasons I like this film. A lot
of movies have trouble making a good father character, but this one
gets it... at times.If you've seen the trailers, you know that a newcomer comes along named
Guy who is an inventor. The nice thing this movie did is that showed
right off the bat how physically epic the Croods are in strength and
just how weak Guy is compared to them. Eep lifts Guy up with her wrist
and nearly kills him within the first couple seconds of meeting him.
Speaking of strength, this movie has its momentum done right. Whenever
the Croods are moving, they move with A LOT of speed and are incredibly
strong (punting rocks hundreds of feet away).I'm getting distracted. The real thing I find interesting about this
movie is that it is one of the only animated movies I have seen that
has blended incredible realism with Looney-Tunes slapstick. The movie
is gorgeous. It really is. The water made me pause for a second and
realize that it wasn't real water... but I thought it was for a moment.
Most movies either use CGI for the beautiful shading but still have
cartoony visuals (Madagascar, Tangled, Frozen) or either they use
incredible realism (Beowolf, Rise of the Guardians, Brave) but this
movie combines both. The humor and the movement is directly taken from
several Pink Panther skits and Merry Melodies, but the animation rarely
stretches of squashes. They still move like they are real. It confuses
me because naturally that sounds like a horrible idea... but... this
movie pulls it off. I can't say that I have ever seen a movie that has
done animation this way.The story itself if pretty good as well, but is fairly kid-oriented.
There are some laughs for adults, but some jokes seem a little too...
kiddish at times. Which is another weird thing: this is an animated
movie that isn't trying to be dark and serious! Really, this movie is
perfectly content with being light-hearted, funny, and really
laid-back. It has its dark moments and its sad moments, but overall it
is upbeat and happy. It is refreshing to see this kind of movie get
released.Also, the soundtrack is really good along with the character
interaction. None of the characters are obnoxious and they all interact
with each other in a very realistic manner. I think half of this
movie's humor comes from the "subtle" jokes or the little gags that fly
by in a second. There is a lot going on in this movie, but it may be
hard to pick up on the first time.All in all, The Croods DOES have some hiccups and you will notice them
when watching it. However, when I look back on it I realize that this
is a special movie. It is unique in almost every way and ISN'T really
unique at all. I wouldn't mind being stuck in the world that was
created... for just a couple minutes more. Oh yeah, and the creatures were cool. Not basing it off of real animals
is clever.
