10
Right to the Heart and from The Soul

Jake Gyllenthal has accomplished almost the impossible, to give a
performance that will rank among the best ever. He channels the
ferocity and pain of the best work by Denzel. His "Fences" work might
have been depended on a combination of fine acting and his masterful
command of theatrical delivery, but Gillenthal here makes you recall
how wonderful it can be when the delivery is raw, pure, and
intelligent. There's the fire that Jamie Bell brought to "Billy
Elliot", and I can certainly could see and feel the pain, much like
Eddie Redmayne showed it in both "The Danish Girl" and "The Theory of
Everything". It emanates from the soul of an actor who has connected
with his part and reaches sublime levels."Stronger" has Gyllenthal showing us what his character went through as
a result of losing both legs during the Boston Marathon attack. We know
we're dealing with a man who has faults but is able to show the fact
that he has a tremendous emotional core. He is not afraid to reach to
show his passion, with a touch of insecurity, and suddenly, the tragedy
makes him grow up when he has to deal with issues that shatter both his
body and his spirit. He must climb out of the place he is in to learn
how live a completely different life. He now relies in others in ways
he could have never imagined. His nerves are overactive, giving him
anxiety attacks, bouts of depression which can only sabotage the little
progress he makes.His face is a mask of frustration, terror, anger, confusion and so many
emotions that arise as his life changes. He is in the middle of public
events; something that is affecting him in more negative ways because
he's frail and lost. He has the support of a few people, some like his
mother, tries hard; yet she drinks and is easily seduced by the
spotlight. She praises her son, yet ignores the torments he goes
through.Jeff's girlfriend remains at his side, enduring the not so easy task
that caring for him entails. They have a connection, but there is much
that needs healing. Unless, people face their demons, talk frankly, and
go through some type of therapy, the pain will become something uglier,
and this is where the performance takes your breath away. His rage and
cries of desperation when he should be thankful for a new gift, leaves
you speechless. There are many amazing parts to his performance, and
the degrees of anger and ache are intense and varied. It's not a simple
performance. Here's not a man who just looks devastated. Here's an
actor whose body, eyes, voice, and who uses anything he can to bring
those moments to life. Gyllenthal is absolutely brilliant in what
appears so simple but is so powerful. He's not afraid of quiet moments.
His voice work here is among some of the finest on film. We have seen
him lose weight, add muscle, take chances few actors do. Here he has
reached the finish line, giving us something that will probably never
be improved upon by him and many others.Gyllenthal does wonders when he's in the hospital in recovery, in his
discovery of how difficult it is to use his home's facilities, how hard
it is to tell anyone what he is really feeling. His hands shake,his
mouth is frozen as he is unable to cry out how much he is suffering. He
doesn't understand what he symbolizes for many because he is now in a
place which few of us visit, a hell that has taken over his world and
makes him hurt in unspeakable ways. He will make, but the road is long
and full of all kinds of obstacles. Here's a performance that needs to
be seen, admired, rewarded, and applauded because the actor has done
exactly what he needed to do: Show us how complex emotion can be.
