6
The Purge goes political, at its own risk

"The Purge: Election Year" (2016 release; 105 min.) brings the
continued stories of the Annual Purge, set somewhere in the
not-too-distant future. As the movie opens, we are treated to a "Purge
playlist" (T. Rex; George Clinton). and we witness how a family is
being purged by an evil-doer. We then are told "18 Years Later--2 Days
before the Purge", as we get to know US Senator Roan, the sole survivor
of the family massacre 18 years ago, and now campaigning to end the
Purge. That is not to the liking of the ruling NFFA, a white
supremacist-trending party. With Roan just 1 point behind in the polls,
the NFFA decides that Roan must be 'taken care of' in the upcoming
Purge. In a separate story line, we get to know Joe, owner of Joe's
Deli, who confronts some teenage women trying to shoplift candy. We're
10-15 minutes into the movie at that point, but to tell you more would
spoil your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how
it all plays out.Couple of comments: this is the third movie in the Purge franchise,
again written and directed by James DeMonaco. The sole returning
character from the second movie is Barnes (played by Fred Grillo), who
now has become the head of security and trusted right-hand man of
Senator Roan (played by Elizabeth Mitchell, still best known for her
role in the TV series Lost). While DeMonaco cleverly picks up on
certain undercurrents in the political scene as we know it today, as
well as mixes in other current themes (the use of drones), the movie
takes a dangerous turn by playing up the racial card to the max, with
the NFFA clearly patterned after the South African ANC's Apartheid
regime. Political considerations aside, the movie does a good job of
raising the tensions but for me the movie is also too predictable and
frankly a bit too long."The Purge: Election Year" opened wide this weekend (to coincide with
July 4, of course). The Saturday evening screening where I saw this at
here in Cincinnati was PACKED, and close to a sell-out. Seemed like the
audience was enjoying the movie, hollering and hooting at all the
bright moments. I sorta enjoyed the movie, although something bothered
me about playing up the political and racial undertones. As a social
experiment, the idea itself of an annual 'approved' purge, remains
fascinating to check, although I believe that if the Purge franchise is
to go on, some new ideas are badly needed. Bottom line: this is till
worth checking out if you liked the first two Purge movie. If you are
new to this franchise, I'd still recommend the first one as the
standard bearer of this franchise.
