9
The hate this movie gets is starting to get on my nerves real bad

First off, I'm not going to hold everybody against the wall with a gun
at their genitals, asking them to please like this movie or I shoot
their freaking balls off. I'm not that that kind of person (and who is
anyways). But I want to clear something up here, because I'm getting
pretty tired of watching this movie's rating keep on descending here on
IMDb, currently holding a 7.1, and on top of that observe all the
hilariously stupid hate-arguments people use to shoot this movie down. I honestly think people have forgotten how it was like to watch these
movies for the first time, and why they found the first two in the
series funny in the first place. Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz were
never as hyped as The World's End was, and I think people expected
something else this time around, other than what they were used to from
the series... Something bigger, something way beyond Shaun and Hot
Fuzz. The fact is this IS different, and people tend to not look at the movie
in a bigger perspective. All the hidden metaphors and references may be
overlooked because all they can think of is: 'well this is basically
Shaun of the Dead all over again isn't it" NO it's not. NOT at all. I think people need to clear their minds and learn to appreciate good
cinema when they see it. I think this got the 'bad-movie' sticker on it
WAY too early, and it has become 'that movie to hate' even though it
does not deserve that - yes that's my opinion but hear me out here...It is the 3rd movie in a brilliant series, of course it's hard to live
up to. But I dare all of you to see it once more, and look at the
unique signature directing style and editing from Mr. Wright, the
perfectly timed jokes, and after that look up some analysis of the
movie. I'm not saying you are going to like it after a second watch,
I'm not saying that you did not get some of the references in the first
viewing already either. I'm just saying that people rating this as low
as 1 or 2/10 are completely insane. Maybe you don't like the concept, fine. Maybe you didn't like the
ending, fine. But there has to be HELL OF A LOT wrong with this if you
rate it as low as some of the worst movies ever made.
