7
The Brits are goods, the Americans bring the film down

I was a fan of the first KINGSMAN film back in 2014.  This stylized,
violent, charming and daffy film took my completely by surprise and I
LOVED the world that was built, the characters that were introduced and
the STYLIZED VIOLENCE that was set forth and I couldn't wait to see
what comes next.And...what comes next was more of the same, but without the shock and
awe of the uniqueness of things and, quite frankly, I was feeling
somewhat disappointed...And then an "old friend" from the first film shows up and the film
recaptures the magic of the first for the 2nd half of this movie and,
by the end, I had a ball.KINGSMAN: THE GOLDEN CIRCLE follows the exploits of the hero from the
first film Eggsy (a "good enough" Taron Egerton).  When a disaster
takes out most of the Kingsmen, it is up to him and gadget wiz Merlin
(Mark Strong - more on him later) to find out who targeted the Kingsmen
and take them down.  To do this, they must join forces with their
compatriots in the United States - THE STATESMEN.And...this is where this movie bogs down.  While the Statesmen should
have been interesting and quirky (like the Kingsmen), they instead are
boring stereotypes.  Channing Tatum is bland as main STATESMAN Tequila,
while Halle Berry is wasted as the Statesman's counterpart to Merlin -
Ginger Ale - and don't even get me started on how Jeff Bridges seems to
be sleepwalking through his part as the head of the Statesman.  It is
only when a long presumed dead character from the first film shows up
does this film pick up steam and start to approach the energy,
enthusiasm and audacity of the first film.It's not a spoiler to say that this character is Collin Firth's agent
Galahad (they do a nice job of bringing him back from the dead) and
when the story focuses back on Egerton, Firth and Strong joining back
up to fight the villain (a deliciously evil Julianne Moore), the fun
returns and stylistic violence gets turned up a notch and becomes quite
stylistic and quite...ahem...violent.So why is this?  I think it is because the filmmakers are British, so
they have a good handle on how to subtly poke fun at the James Bond
SuperSpy character-types and their only exposure to an American Hero is
John Wayne or Clint Eastwood so they poorly try to spoof American
stereotypes and they fail badly.Only Pedro Pascal (TV's GAME OF THRONES and NARCOS) fairs well as one
of the U.S. Agents (and he's Chilean!) showing more than one dimension
whilst the others do not.Thankfully, the 2nd half of the film focuses on the 3 British
Agents/stars and that is where the film really takes off.  Mark Strong,
in particular, really comes into his own as Merlin and becomes the
heart and soul of this film.  As a matter of fact, I'd be fine with
them killing of Egerton's character and just give us a movie with Firth
and Strong, but, alas, that's not going to happen.One last note.  There is a very British, very popular, very aging
member of ROCK MUSIC ROYALTY that makes an extended cameo in this film
(maybe even a supporting part) and this person understood the type of
film they were in and went along with the fun with a wink in their eye
and a skip in their step.  It was fabulous, darling, a highlight of the
film.As were all things British, too bad the Americans were around to bring
the fun down.Letter Grade:  B+7 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank(OfMarquis)
