3
Ridley Scott forgot everything about great movies except for the craft

I'm really sorry, but this a major disappointment.No, I didn't expect miracles or something close to the original Alien.
I've been following Scott for 30 years - and it's clear that he has
been on the decline since Gladiator and Black Hawk Down.I liked a few of his later movies like A Good Year - but most have been
rather flat and uninspired.One thing I've noticed, is that he's gotten increasingly complacent
with his own "point of view" in terms of historical facts and how
things work in reality. It's like he has a complete disregard for
plausible motivations or factual information about how things work.Case in point - there's a scene in the movie where a certain character
has to have an operation performed on her body - and it involves
slicing directly through the skin and muscle-tissue of her abdomen.
After the procedure, she's simply "stitched together" by metal clips in
like 3 seconds - and with a bit of local anesthetic, she continues to
move and jump about with some moaning. Ehm, you CAN'T have any kind of
normal movement with your muscle tissue completely severed - and there
was absolutely no healing involved. Just one of a series of ridiculous
events.The plot is entirely juvenile and cliché stuff with "profound"
questions like who created us. For some reason, the beings who created
us also want to kill us - and it seems to involve incredibly elaborate
genetic engineering that also happened to kill most of them in their
remote "lab facility". They're CLEARLY much more powerful than we are -
and they could just bomb the hell out of us, or do it in a thousand
simpler ways. But no, they seem to want to utilize excessively
elaborate and dangerous genetic modification or infestation - that they
can't even control.They also like to record recent events with some kind of holographic
recorder device that is unable to render clear images, only some cool
ghostly images that I bet Scott loved to play with. But they're quite
flexible in how they let you play recordings of their security
procedure - so you can access their systems without effort.Characters are void of personality and growth, they're REALLY stupid -
and they like to freak out for no reason, and they like to stay calm
and playful when there IS a reason - like when encountering a nasty
looking cobra-worm - an alien - for the first time in history.Among these faceless people - we have some willing to gleefully commit
suicide by ramming an alien ship, because they like their captain, and
they're required to do so because he "can't fly worth a damn" - despite
him being the primary pilot hired by a billionaire to do nothing but
fly the ship.We have a religious scientist who concludes that she's found our
creators, based on: "It's what I choose to believe".Then we have the very same religious scientist look at an alien "head"
they brought back - and she notices some strange growth on it. She then
spends 2 seconds thinking and concludes that this is obviously some
kind of "foreign cells" (impressive deduction, I must say) - and she
decides to stimulate the cells with electricity - just to see what
happens. No research - no caution - no nothing.We have people who decide to open the door to their ship, seemingly
with no thought process, despite having just faced complete chaos by
extremely hostile alien forces - because one of their crew mates seems
to be lying in front of the door. This while other crew mates have just
been taken over by some kind of alien infestation.Then we have the boyfriend of said religious scientist (a douche) who
decides that the air in an alien environment is safe to breathe because
his device tells him it is - and he immediately removes his helmet. A
classic Hollywood scientist moment, and clearly there's no need to
worry about biological contaminants in a place like that.This movie is FULL of this kind of utterly implausible behavior and
random decisions.It has a couple of "for effect" gore scenes - but Scott manages to
include ZERO tension along with them. As a result, they're mildly
disgusting - but they have no lasting effect whatsoever.The "aliens" that are a part of this movie all look like plastic -
because of overly smooth and pale skin. They look like Lovecraft
creatures without a much-needed paint-job.We have a horribly predictable, pointless and wasted twist involving
Guy Pearce and a certain other cast member. We have an android, well-acted by Fassbender, who seems to be fully
random in his decisions and motivations. Few actions made sense in any
context - not to me anyway.The music was overwrought and didn't fit with the mood of the film, and
it seemed like one theme being repeated endlessly. A surprise, given
Scott's usual flair for good music.I think Lindelof is a complete and total hack - who only got the job
because he was the "yes-man" who could match Scott's ego. This is
pretty obvious in interviews - where Lindelof always manages to
publicly kiss Scott's behind.1 Star for Fassbender's performance. 1 Star for the amazingly detailed visuals. 1 Star for how the above combine to form the excellent beginning.Now, it's just a matter of leaning back - musing over a thousand
different people coming up with a thousand different explanations -
each being the "correct" interpretation of this deep and
thought-provoking masterpiece.Going by the IMDb rating, I can do nothing but stay mesmerized by how
efficient it is to rely on the "Emperor's New Clothes" effect and let
hype do the rest. Stay real Scott, Lindelof and Hollywood.
