5
Cliché on Cliché

I love Ryan Gosling. I love Zombieland. I think Micheal Pena is one of
the most underrated actors working right now. I don't know what
happened. No Wait Yeah I do this is one of the laziest most sterile
scripts that I've witnessed in recent memory. This feels like a studio
executive went up to a script generator and typed in "Undercover cop
movie" and it printed out the Expendables but with cops . Then he read
it and put in " Undercover Cover Cop movie set in classic Hollywood". To get the positives out of the way, the movie has a great aesthetic.
It's beautiful, colors pop out nice and saturated. The actors here are
all solid. Nobody is really embarrassing themselves, aside from being
in this movie, from their performances and some of them even manage to
deliver some pretty cheesy lines really well. The pacing here is pretty
good almost too fast, but i'll come back to that. The action is nothing
to speak of it's just there. The Direction leaves a lot to be desired,
unlike the atmospheric classic hollywoods movies this rips off which
have a slow focused camera work to them this is shot like any other
action movie. Ruben Fleisher is definitely an actor's director he is
able to get decent to good performances from actors, and I don't want
to right him off just yet.The Ugly. This movie is so generic. Even worse it's predictable. I've
noticed a slew of genre movies recently that take a traditional typical
story and it's clichés and turn them into tropes and strive to make
them better. Lincoln Lawyer, 21 Jump Street, End Of Watch, take
traditional story and plot points and make them better and inventive .
This movie relishes in it's clichés, but not enough to make fun of
them. The first thing the villain does it kills somebody. No nuance or
tension he just kills somebody. The next scene is the cop whose too
dedicated to his job making an arrest he shouldn't as his partner
advices him not to. The scene after that he goes into the chiefs
office. Had it been more over the top, I was laughing hysterically at
some parts not intended of course, I could've enjoyed it more, but it's
not smart at all. It even could've been like Sherlock Holmes 2009 or
Pirates, but no it's fine being a standard action movie.The Bad. This movie is written by Will Beall who is currently writing
the Justice League movie that is set to come out in 2 years. Yeah,
after the reviews for this movie come out and the box office take
Justice League will find a new writer. I have nothing but contempt for
this guy. This script has no meat it has stock characters with great
actors. Once again if this was Edgar Wright or Joss Wheedon they'd get
some dimension or have a lot of heart or be really funny, but no. The
team consists of The Overdedicated cop, The guy who never misses, The
guy who uses a knife, The tech guy, and the Newbie. There either needs
to be Character development with a mediocre story, or Story Development
with stock characters. This has neither. In every scene you get force
feed exposition. If Tyler Perry directed an action movie it'd be like
this. No subtly.****SPOILERS*** There was a line so corny I didn't realize how bad it
was Until I left the theatre. Sean Penn is the bad guy, whose scene
can't end without someone being killed or yelled at, and he says to his
henchmen who execute some one " You know the drill". Then they pickup a
drill and kill him with it.. I couldn't make that up **** SPOILERS
OVEREThis movie is a bologna sandwich. It's the yellow starburst of movies.
Although It is more enjoyable then the Expendables, I couldn't tell you
why it's the same idea big cast no effort, This movie is something you
watch at a friends house. This is the perfect movie for one night at
Redbox. All the people who don't watch 2 movies a day will enjoy it and
think it's a good movie. All the smart people can have some friends
over with some beers and laugh and make jokes about it and play " Name
what movie that scene was stolen from". Basically an alternative go
watch Mad Men or L.A. Confidential or go play L.A. Noire much more
rewarding.
