4
Brilliantly directed, adequately acted, and poorly written.

I decided to give Act of Valor a watch after reading some of the
reviews on here. I was fully aware that the main cast were not
professional actors, and was prepared for the occasional wooden
performance. In fairness to the cast, I felt that the acting was
perfectly adequate for the genre, and even exceeded at times
performances by the likes of Stallone and Schwarzenegger (that's not
really saying much). I felt that the director did a superb job,
particularly with the action sequences, and that the cinematography was
also fantastic (I love those DSLR's). Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for the writing. I have never
heard such poorly written dialogue, nor have I ever been witness to
such lousy characterization. Here is the sum total of what we came to
learn about the 2 leading characters: * 1 can surf, while the other
needs practice. * They are both navy seals. * 1 has 5 children, while
the other is expecting his 1st. * They are both very, very heroic. If a
writer truly wants his (or her) audience to care about the characters,
we need to know a little bit about them. They need to feel like real
people to us. I can't remember the last time I shed a tear for a
caricature. Almost all of the non-action related dialogue was centered around the
Lieutenants anticipation of the birth of his child. The writer clearly
felt this was an important plot point, as he continually kept referring
to it at every possible moment. This not only wasted valuable time,
which could have been better used to acquaint us with the characters,
but also made the eventual outcome blatantly obvious. Of course he was
going to die!!! They keep referring to it in the hope that we will be
sad when it happens. I wasn't sad! Who was that guy???I am not trying to dismiss the courage of Navy Seals. The work they do
is incredible. These brave men risk their lives on a daily basis, in
the noble pursuit of protecting their country. They deserve recognition
and gratitude for the amazing work that they do. Unfortunately, I felt
that this tribute failed to do that justice. What could have been
incredibly powerful, was sabotaged by poor writing, relegating the film
to utter mediocrity. Such a shame!
