7
It's All About Passion

Probably one of the most exquisitely photographed films ever made,
"Tulip Fever" could have been much better, and it is better than most
of the stuff out there. Yet, it feels like it missed something, and
that's where the mystery lies for its audience. It's an intelligent
piece, with a love triangle, fairly good characterization of the main
players. Vikander is lovely as the stray wife, and Waltz gives us
another rich and complex portrayal of a man who has come far but is
incomplete because he feels he must have done something bad enough to
anger God.It's Amsterdam, and depending on where you live, your life is wonderful
or sort of a mess. One thing the film is good at is showing the class
differences, which interestingly enough both seem to share some type of
restraint that many fight to preserve, and others do fairly well
ignoring. At the moment most people have developed a type of fanaticism
for the supple and gorgeous tulips. Prices vary, and some specimens can
break or make a regular man.The rich man "acquires" a wife, gives her what she needs, and all he
wants is an heir. Somehow, despite their attempts, no baby comes. To
complicate matters, a young painter becomes the young woman's
obsession, and immediately, we feel things can just go badly. The
affair becomes more intense, with the husband completely unaware of it.
This apparently emboldens the lovers to try a very difficult enterprise
in order to free themselves of the trap they have forged for
themselves.In order for this to happen, there's a parallel story, which involves,
Maria, a pretty sharp maid who is not afraid to cross the lines between
master and servant to express an opinion. She has earned their trust,
but she has also kept her eyes and ears open. Unfortunately, her own
affair has unexpected consequences, and something her mistress does
causes a bit of problems for all involved as her lover disappears,
leaving her pregnant.One obvious matter is that the film is gorgeous to see, appreciating
the input of those involved. However, the passion is kept to the
minimum, and in the final 20 minutes, we are wondering why we are not
at the edge of our seats, seeing what fate holds for the members of
this drama. When we finally arrived at the expected conclusion, we
realize there are still surprises to be had. Change occurs, resulting in many people's lives to take new turns. The
beneficiaries of the final turn of events is a pleasant surprise. We
are not seeing a typical tragic ending, but a more realistic
understanding of how things might work out, something closer to the
true nature of those involved.
