1
This is a fan fiction film

I saw this movie today and this was the first Star Wars film that I
wanted to walk out on.Here are my grips with the movie1. NO OPENING CRAWL - It seems like the people who made this movie did
not consider consistency to be important in the Star Wars franchise.
This is the first movie in the franchise to not have an opening crawl
and not having consistency really shows in the quality of the movie.2. BAD PACING and TRANSITION - In the beginning of the movie you have
the camera jump from random planets without any real explanation as to
what is going on and this type of camera work goes on for the entire
movie. It just feels like a bunch of random shots put together.3. NO CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT - You feel absolutely no emotion or bond
towards any of the characters. All of them feel replaceable and there
is no memorable chemistry between the characters in any way. I have no
idea why Forrest Whittaker was even in the film because he serves no
purpose. His character finds the main lead and then it entirely skips
any sort of character development that could've happened between the
two. I don't even remember the characters names because most of them
were so unmemorable4. THE ROBOT - As I said before consistency did not seem to be
important to the makers of this movie. The reprogrammed imperial robot
seemed TOO human. He moved too much like a human and talked too much
like a human, which did not happen in any of the other star wars
movies. The most human like droid was C-3p0 but even he did not MOVE
like a human.5. VADER - Something about this Vader seemed to be off. I can't point
my finger as to what it is but his style of talking and also his suit
seems to be different because I didn't see a chain around his neck.
Also his lightsabre fighting style seemed too agile and more like the
prequel rather than a hard hitting slow style like in the original
trilogy. As I said before, consistency didn't seem important to the
filmmakers and little things like this pulled me out of the movie.6. Obvious SJW Agenda - I am Korean-American. When I watch a Star Wars
film, I just want a good Star Wars film. I don't need a Star Wars
filmed disguised with a SJW Agenda. Is it a coincidence that the Rebels
has a woman, an arab, two Asian guys, a hispanic etc. and the Empire is
all white? Why can't I just have a good Star Wars film?I will say this. The only good part of the movie was at the end when
the Death Star fires at the planet because that is the only time I
actually felt emotion for the characters and saw a little bit of
character development.Otherwise, this was a terrible movie. You will only watch it just
because it is Star Wars.
