7
An almost classic Western with a fantastic cast, great dialog and gruesome horror elements

This film is a rather special genre-mix of classic Western themes and
gory, insane B-movie horror elements. Films like the quite watchable
The Burrowers (2008) and Dead Birds (2004) have mixed those ingredients
before with some success, but while those two were undoubtedly
B-movies, Bone Tomahawk never feels like your typical straight to VOD
genre film.What really stands out right from the start is the writing: the precise
dialog and never less than interesting characters are what really makes
this film a winner in my book. The premise might not be very original -
it's Western to the bone (pun intended) and very much in the tradition
of great classics like The Searchers - but despite its dark themes,
there is so much understated humour in Bone Tomahawk that I felt at
times reminded of some of the characters in Jim Jarmusch's films. And
Richard Jenkins' character, back-up deputy Chicory, is down-right
hilarious. The acclaimed (and Oscar-nominated) actor clearly has a
blast with his part, and the same can absolutely be said for the rest
of the cast. This is a film that is willing to spend a very
considerable part of its running time just building atmosphere and
exploring the different characters, and the action/horror moments are
actually few and far between. According to some recent interviews with
the producers, the excellently written characters are also what drew
A-list actors Kurt Russell and Patrick Wilson to the film, despite its
micro-budget, and if Russell hadn't been so committed to playing the
part of Sheriff Franklin Hunt, the film wouldn't have been made.In spite of its tiny budget, this is a quality film that really should
have had a wide theatrical release; everything from the A-list cast to
the excellent cinematography, sound and production design practically
scream for the big screen. A word to the wise, though; after some
initial mayhem, the film moves along at a very considerate pace (and at
over two hours it's a rather long film), so for those who seek
entertainment heavy on action with non-stop shoot-outs, gory thrills
and scares, look elsewhere: this is probably not the film for you (and
perhaps also not the film that was promised in the trailers). But if
you like old-school Westerns with great characters (played by great
character actors), great atmosphere and deadpan humour, and you ALSO
don't mind (very!) gory thrills, scares and some bloody shoot-outs
along the way, I believe you will enjoy this film very much. I know I
did: 7.5 stars out of 10.Lesser-Known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget And B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/All-Time Favorite Films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/
