9
Well worth the wait!

The film is just over 2 hours long, but when it was over it seemed like
I had been in the cinema about 30 minutes. The film centres on the battle for the 1976 Formula 1 World
Championship, and the rivalry between the Austrian "professor" Nikki
Lauda and the British playboy James Hunt. The two are depicted as enemies, but in actual fact they were good
friends who trusted and respected each other on, as well as off-track.
This bit of artistic licence does not spoil the film and is reasonable
in order to make the battle between the two for the F1 crown more
intense. The film is nicely paced. We are introduced to both characters through
their own narrative and scenes that leave the watcher in no doubt as to
their background and philosophy on life. The two are first seen in competition in 1970 at a Formula 3 race at
Crystal Palace (where they have a coming together) and sets the scene
for the rivalry throughout the film. I'm not sure if this is further
artistic licence. The two definitely did race each other in F3, but I
am not convinced as to whether this actual incident occurred. After that we are given a whistle stop journey between 1973 (when Hunt
came into F1) to 1975. We are shown the dangerous nature of F1 at the
time with the Francois Cevert accident at Watkins Glen in gory detail –
although this does not seem like gratuitous, but necessary to bring
home just how unforgiving the sport was back then – and it truly was
(of the top 12 points scorers in 1976, F1 cars were to claim 3, 1 ended
up in a wheelchair and 1 had his career ended by a leg crunching
crash). We are then taken to 1976 and that titanic struggle for the World
Crown. Only one real issue here – the British Grand Prix result, but I
suspect this was simplified in the interests of time. The casting is superb. Chris Hemsworth, an Aussie, does an excellent
job on public schoolboy James Hunt, while Daniel Bruhl both sounds and
looks frighteningly like the Austrian. There is little room for a
supporting cast amongst the drivers which is a shame – only Clay
Regazzoni has a part of any real substance. Peterson, Watson,
Depailler, Scheckter, Andretti et al could have featured a little more
I think. What did their contemporaries think of the two protagonists?
The supporting cast is mainly required for Hunt – Lord Hesketh,
"Bubbles" Horsley and Teddy Mayer / Tyler Alexander of McLaren, while
the Ferrari team principals are rarely seen. The love angle is perfectly catered for by Olivia Wilde (Hunt's first
wife Suzy) and the gorgeous Alexandra Maria Lara - of Downfall fame –
as the future Marlene Lauda. Both give quality performances. The attention to detail is superb. Although the tracks are not the
actual ones (for understandable reasons) the cars, the helmets, the
sponsors are all authentic. The film "feels" like it's happening in the
70's. For anyone interested in great personal stories, F1, the 70's, cars or
just like to see a great film, then Rush is for you.
