3
Stupid, Boring and a Huge Embarrassment to all Involved.

Dr Will Caster (Johnny Depp) develops a sentient computer device with
unsurpassed processing power. When fatally poisoned by a radical
techno-terrorist organisation he and his wife (Rebecca Hall) upload his
consciousness into his invention to preserve his life, but the now
unrestrained supercomputer soon develops a frightening ambition that
blurs the line between humanity and technology.It seems that every few years somebody in Hollywood tries to redo The
Lawnmower Man, which is by no means a perfect movie (especially with
its laughable, early generation CGI) but it harbours an interesting
premise; what happens if we ignore our own judgement and let our
technology get the better of us?. It's an old sci-fi trope going back
decades that has definitely become a crutch of story telling to some
extent, but any good idea is worth exploring again, and with such an
impressive cast and a very promising production team behind it, hopes
were high for Transcendence to be a good movie.Unfortunately though, it isn't. Transcendence is a turgid, lifeless
bore of a film that doesn't really offer anything insightful about its
subject matter because it's so single mindedly stupid about it. All the
parts about technology, philosophy and what it means to be human are
all thrown to the wayside, and the movie instead grounds most of its
logic on the relationship between two people like its the most
important thing in this world. In a movie where technology is used to
heal the sick, rebuild the forests and even cure death, all the movie
wants us to care about is how Rebecca Hall cannot possibly go on living
without her dead husband and how all that amazing wonderful
miracle-making doesn't mean anything.I'm not even sure who the main character is supposed to be. Depp is in
the movie in the flesh only for about 15 minutes and after that he
disappears mostly into the background of scenes as a computer program
making it hard to relate to him. Hall acts so selfish, stupid and blunt
throughout that it's impossible to like her as an audience member. It
certainly isn't Paul Bettany either, he's a prisoner through most of
the film and when he's not, the things that are happening are more or
less out of his control.Also the vagueness of the films antagonist is a real problem, we're led
to believe that Computerised-Depp is the main antagonist, but he's not
really, a computer operating by logic is hard to hate as a viewer,
because it's just doing what's in its own nature, and many of the
miracles its capable of are not, in and of themselves evil either
(since when was healing the blind considered unjust?). It certainly
isn't the Techno-Terrorist group R.I.F.T either, their motivations as
terrorists isn't even particularly clear other than "Technology is
Bad", Shooting Johnny Depp over a hypothesis seems more like stupidity
than martyrdom. Also during the films climax they become good guys. Johnny Depp was reportedly paid $20 million for his role in this movie,
and in my opinion he didn't earn his salary. He is stiff, lifeless,
bored (that's even before he gets uploaded into a computer) and
obviously uninterested in the finished product. Rebecca Hall is trying
very hard here, but the terrible writing of her character hamstring her
efforts. Paul Bettany is good here and is probably the films strongest
asset, but he's not in the film enough and pretty much useless by the
time the conclusion comes. Morgan Freeman and Cillian Murphy are just
there, they don't really have anything interesting to say or do. Kate
Mara gives by far the worst performance, the bad writing of her
character hurts her more than others, but she was impossible to buy as
the stern, serious leader of an organised terrorist group.There's also a huge lack of understanding of rudimentary film making
skills at play. Wally Pfister is a gifted cinematographer and the film
does look good generally speaking, but working cinematography on a
movie and directing an entire movie are two completely different ball
games. Many aspects of film-making are botched here: Framing, Blocking,
Dynamics between Characters, Editing, Camera Movements but especially
Pacing. This is one of the worst Paced movies in quite some time,
nothing that happens in the story has any momentum, and this coupled
with the poor direction over everything else makes the whole movie
completely dull to watch (the biggest mistake is that film begins with
the ending, spoiling any and all tension during the movie).I'm not saying that every movie needs to have an action scene either,
there isn't a car chase during 12 Angry Men, but Transcendence builds
to a huge final engagement and when it comes it's over with way too
quickly. It's a combination of many elements that could go wrong with a movie,
and it's easy to blame Wally Pfister for the poor direction, but I
think this movie represents a far bigger concern. Johnny Depp is
currently the highest paid actor in the world, but this and some of his
last films "The Lone Ranger" and "Dark Shadows" both had disappointing
box office takings, which leads me to believe that maybe Depp's day are
numbered, and/or perhaps we're entering a new age of movies where it
doesn't matter who you cast, a stinker's a stinker and people wont
flock to see garbage.
