4
It's official: I have matured...

...to the point where a gore-fest like this reset of "The Evil Dead"
series failed to impress me. Sadly, mindless Grand Guignol appears to
be still popular, and the profit margin of this one will undoubtedly
spawn a sequel. More's the pity. Truthfully, the ensemble acting from a
quintet of relative unknowns is passable, the DP work from Kiwi Aaron
"Spartacus: War of the Damned" Morton is quite nice, and certainly the
goo and gristle are up to snuff (been looking for a place to stick that
pun for awhile), but unfortunately it's all in the service of tyro
auteur Fede "Yes, my first feature film!" Alvarez' pedestrian script
and workmanlike-at-best direction. Others are apparently also to blame
for the script, including Diablo "Juno" Cody, and likely should be held
equally responsible---small recompense to the viewer, though.After a pointless prologue that could have easily been dealt with in a
one-minute flashback, the story (such as it is) settles into an
uninspiring realm of hack work, providing nothing in the way of
interesting characters to latch onto and even less in the way of
surprises, tension and---most important---scares. The film's tagline is
sad example of hyperbole and hubris; the only thing terrifying about
this misfire is that so many people fell for the hype, and now we'll
have to put up with another one down the line. Gone are virtually any
traces of what made Raimi's original film memorable, mostly a sense of
humor and the spark of genuine imagination. Alvarez' "Evil Dead" is
deadly serious and deadly intent on making money from an indiscriminate
audience, which renders it deadly dull.Let's put it this way: when several of the main characters purportedly
wait "all morning" for the rest of their party to arrive at a remote
cabin without any of them bothering to check and see if they can
actually get in the place, only to discover upon that arrival that the
door has already been breached by forced entry...well, you know as an
audience that your intelligence and willful suspension of disbelief are
not going to be respected, and that all the homages and references to
the original film aren't going to make a bit of difference.I shudder to think what sort of self-congratulatory extras are going to
be in the BluRay/DVD release. They're certainly going to be more
entertaining (but not in a good way) than this hapless remake of a
classic lo-fi horror movie that should have been left alone.8.27.13 edit: Against my better judgment, I revisited this one on DVD
(okay, fine, it was from the library, shoot me) and stand by everything
I said above. Thankfully, the three promo featurettes were not, as I
had feared, overly self-congratulatory, and actually left me feeling a
little more charitable toward the writer/director and his leading lady,
but none of them altered my opinion of the film itself. "Evil Dead" is
make-work, Sturgeon's Revelation all the way.
