2
Awful movie with a beyond terrible script

The reboot of the Jack Ryan franchise (not based on any particular
book, but starring the character invented by the recently deceased Tom
Clancy) is utterly disappointing. As the movie starts, we are in 2001
and Jack Ryan (a wooden Chris Pine) is studying economics in the London
School of Economics. News of the terrorist attack of 9/11 prompts him
to enlist as a marine. Next we see him, he is fighting in Afghanistan,
where his helicopter is blown off, surviving miraculously. The CIA
becomes aware of both his academic smarts and his courage in the
military field, so they bring Kevin Costner to enlist him for the
agency in a unit fighting financial terrorism. To do that, he is asked
to work undercover in a Wall Street firm. There, he learns, perhaps a
few years later, that one Russian oligarch named Victor Cherevin
(Kenneth Branagh who also directed the film) is involved in some shady
dealings, so he has to go to Moscow to investigate. As it turns out
(warning: spoilers ahead), Cherevin fought in the Soviet occupation of
Afghanistan during the 1980s and is still resentful that at that time
the US supported the Afghan Mujahedin, which eventually defeated the
Soviets. His plan for payback to the US: buy really huge sums of
dollars in the market, and sell them when a terrorist attack hits the
US. This would cause, according to Ryan, a collapse of the dollar and
"the second great depression". Russia, however, will be fine, since it
has "all the oil" (Ryan has apparently never heard of the shale oil
revolution that has enormously boosted US oil production). You don't
have to be a Ph.d. in Economics to realize that such scenario is
utterly ridiculous: the US economy is six times larger than that of
Russia, and the notion that a Russian oligarch has so much money he can
corner all the dollars in the world is beyond laughable.Branagh is fine as the villain and shows some flair directing action
sequences, but there is only so much he can do with such an execrable
script. By the way, this is probably the first Hollywood movie to show
the Russians as villains since Rambo III from 1988. Keira Knightley is
pretty as Ryan's witless wife. Mikhail Baryshnikov has an uncredited
cameo as a sort of Russian bureaucrat in cahoots with Cherevin (for
those with memories, during the 1980s he starred in a Cold War drama
called White Nights, that was about as awful as this movie).
