9
Nolan may have earned himself some high accolades come Oscar season

No reviewer was lying when they said see this in 70mm IMAX (full
disclosure, I saw this on a regular screen). In my opinion, it
necessitates it. I can just "tell" from what I saw. The aerial shots
alone would provide good reasoning for it, but the sound that those
theaters provide with the big picture in front of you will captivate
you exactly the right way.This isn't a social kind of film, and it certainly isn't popcorn
entertainment. Not a summer blockbuster at all. This film's scope feels
very small, even though it carries epic tones within. Nolan really
broke a lot of traditional film conventions with this, and I think that
exact kind of ambition is what makes this movie work for a more general
audience. I somewhat think audience members need to know what they're
getting into beforehand to be accepting of that fact, but once they are
I think they will be just fine.On a technical level, I think this is Nolan's best yet. The Prestige
still might get higher honors simply because of the more demanding
writing that is involved, but given what Nolan intended to do, this
nearly screams "perfection." Did he try and go for an R-rating? No. Did
that matter? Not even close. Did he try and provide massive amounts of
character development? No. Did that matter? Depends on who you talk to.
I could honestly say that if there were two cuts of this film—an
extended cut that develops the characters and this one—you could give
us the option and we would find the one we enjoy more depending on what
we're looking for. Did he look to vilify the Germans to the point of
controversy? No. Did that matter? It didn't, but only one part does
stick out for me (the "one flaw" that Nolan often has trouble with in
his writing) and I'll get back to that in a moment."Harrowing" is easily my favorite word to describe Dunkirk. This is a
survival film, and that's all it is. He put us on the beach, on the
sea, and in the air. He gave the characters a want and will to live
with an impending threat for which we understand its consequence,
without need of showing thousands of deaths or lots of blood. When one
moment of attempted survival ends, another one begins without warning.
That doesn't mean the film is relentless action, but it certainly is
relentless tension, if for no other reason than Hans Zimmer's score.
I'm telling you right now, his score is my favorite part of the film.
It's actually mostly a quiet kind of score, but it is frightening and
works with the film so very well.Nolan has had a lot of trouble doing "show, not tell" in his past
films. This time he has learned a lot, not letting the actors expose
everything (acting was fine all around, by the way... not much to say
about it honestly, as it's not the film's high point). I did not feel
the presence of the surrounding enemies, though. If the film didn't
tell us about it, I probably wouldn't have felt the pressure of getting
off that beach sooner than later. Hearing the planes incoming was
always scary of course, but as we only had the British perspective and
a week-long time line at most, there simply wasn't a chance of feeling
time cave in on them. This to me is this film's only real flaw.That being said, the only real limitation that holds this film back is
that it's based in reality, which means that we are already aware of
the outcome. I think for this particular story it's fine, because it's
not one specific moment that lets us breathe again... so letting it
play out the way that it did is okay with me. I do not think this will
go over with people who come in completely uneducated about Dunkirk. I
made a mistake in stating that I wanted this film to educate me on the
evacuation story. I think I'd rather have learned about it first and
then seen the film, kind of like seeing United 93 after having lived
9/11 (not totally, but I was at least cognizant of all that
transpired). That doesn't mean to research the film itself, but rather
just the historical event.I do hope that Nolan goes back to fictional work after this. Here was
an awesome deviation from the norm that he chose to do, and he went out
in grand style. I could have used a longer film with fleshed out
character development, but this film also works as well especially in
the month of July. I see this receiving many Oscar nominations such as
score, editing, cinematography, visual effects, etc... I do not see any
acting or writing awards... and yes, I see a director nomination as
well. If the academy believes some of those earn him victories, then
god damn it give him his Best Picture Oscar as well.I can't really yet rank this film with his other films, because it's
just so different. I don't see too many of the Inception parallels
here. Every film of his outside of Insomnia either does nonlinear or
intertwining storytelling, but this one is without the cleverness
involved in the script. It's just playing things out as they do.
Survive. So to revisit, I believe this may be his best work yet, even
if I don't know if it's my favorite of his. I really just want to put
this in another category from other films entirely, in which case it's
my favorite of "that kind of film."My heart is still pounding from this film. I simply cannot wait to see
this in 70mm IMAX on Thursday.
