6
Again the eternal fight between vampires and werewolves in this exciting but inferior follow-up

Passable sequel that concerns again the eternal taking on between
vampires and Lycans . This creepy and gore-soaked vampires film begins
ten years after . Unknown to humanity, centuries old blood feud raged
between aristocrat vampires and subdued legion of werewolves known as
Lycans . The tale traces the confrontation between a ruling class of
bloodsuckers and their onetime slaves, the werewolves . When human
forces discover the existence of the Vampire and Lycan clans , a war to
eradicate both species commences. The vampire warrioress Selene leads
the battle against humankind . As a vampire named Selena (Kate
Beckinsale) emerges as a powerful rebel who rallies the rebellious
bloodsuckers (Theo James) to rise up against Doctor Jacob Lane (Stephen
Rea) . She also discovers that she has a 12-year-old Vampire/Lycan
hybrid daughter (India Eisley's character is referred to throughout the
movie as "Subject 2" but credited as "Eve") . Selene is joined by
Detective Sebastian (Michael Ealy) , in his struggle against the Lycans
and his fight for freedom . Neverheless , the war was not as it had
seemed . Soon the hunt would be on for his killer . As the war between
vampires and werewolves get more personal and deadly , they decide to
launch a full-scale attack on the hideout in order to extinguish the
race.This amazing movie packs frantic action , thrills ride , stirring
fighting , graphic violence , excessive body count: 128 and is pretty
entertaining . The film's release date is on the same day as
Underworld: Evolution's, released six years earlier. The picture
continues the characteristic of the series that the major supporting
parts are played by well-known actors from the UK, in this case Charles
Dance and Stephen Rea . Furthermore , there appears uncredited Wes
Bentley . And is the first Underworld film not to feature Bill Nighy,
Michael Sheen or Brian Steele . It packs large loads of guts and gore ,
there's a huge body count, this one actually knocks off an immense
amount , several vampires and werewolves are staked bloodily in the
chest, even more impaled with large claws. There's really savage
decapitation, plenty of bodies ripped in scraps and half, including
some of the most tears ever, that spill lots of blood and numerous get
shot up with arcs . Most of vampires, Lycans and humans victims are
relegated to being bitten in the throat and neck and the breathtaking
fighting scenes are realized with magnificent special and visual
effects as well as excellent make-up department . The film blends
horror, suspense, struggles, rip-roaring action, terror and lots of
blood and gore . Set design is of first class , settings are stylized,
Gothic scenarios , and spooky and ghoulish atmosphere. Special effects
are breathtaking , part of them are made by means of computer generator
and part by make up . Bone-chilling and atmospheric musical score by
Paul Haslinger and colorful and dark cinematography by Scott Kevan ;
being the first film in the series to be in real-d 3-d and Imax 3-d .
Spectacular and moving direction by Måns Mårlind and Björn Stein ,
though Jalmari Helander was offered a chance to direct. The interesting
but mediocre screenplay was written by Len Wiseman , Kate Beckinsale's
husband , who directed the former entries , along with Danny McBride
and Kevin Grevioux . All actors and technicians participated in the
previous outings , including , of course , Kate Beckinsale as a
relentless action woman , being well replaced by Rhona Mitra in former
entry titled ¨Rise the Lycans¨. Recommended to those who amuse those
kind of vampires-werewolves films or those enjoy in general.
