10
why YOUR NAME is the best animated movie of the last five years

Your Name is a journey about growth and having the ability to bounce
back when thrown against overpowering hardships. It's a journey that
focuses on human emotion that are larger than time and space. It's a
journey of where we watch our protagonists struggle again and again
against destiny. And it's one of the greatest animated journeys you
will ever experience.Watch the review at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p7v32c900F4 and /
or read along hereYour Name follows a girl from the country and a boy from the city who
have never met that switch bodies when they dream. This movie may seem like your romantic-comedy body-swap situation. But
it will surprise you how in depth the gets. The storytelling here is
top notch, because you understand everything, but when you think about
it, the concept gets quite confusing, but because of the brilliant
direction my Shinkai, he somehow makes it understandable. The two protagonists are the driving force of the film instead of
Shinkai's normal eye candy visual sell outs. Within the great writing
are actually some very funny and memorable conversations. The comedy
works well to add another layer to the great chemistry between the
protagonists. Props to the actors.It was just so fun watching the dynamic feelings of these two and I
loved how the two genders figured each other out while inhabiting the
others' body. I was a little confused when a lot of the first act is dedicated to the
girl, without really seeing the movie from the boy she's swapping with,
his view. But the movie surprised me when something happened to the
girl and we see the boy for most of the rest of the movie. So actually
the screen time for both protagonists were quite similar. That blew me
away.If you delve deep into his work Shinkai tends to break the forth wall
often in the way he portrays emotions. He, in a way, makes you reflect
upon your own life, and all his movies are really, really relatable. He
makes you look back on dark times, times you don't really want to think
about again and he says a different messages every movie. A big part of the film was it's editing and sound design. This all
helped with the immersion. Every scene is dripping with hidden details
covered in immense beauty sugar coated with an outstanding soundtrack
played by Radwimps.And although the end is predictable, it did what 5 Centimetres Per
Second didn't do. It left me satisfied. What seemed like a stupid idea turned into Your Name. And it's not just
another Japanese animation. There are so many scenes where it feels like the Shinkai just pulls the
rug from underneath you, like the movie doesn't always follow the
normal routine. I felt so many emotions in this movie.It grips you in that way and shows that every second in the movie and
in life is important.This movie takes every awesome element that Shinkai has ever used in
his films and are all constrained into this movie. This film has jaw
dropping photo-realistic visuals with beautiful Japanese voice work,
great cinematography, laugh out loud comedy, gripping story, insane
twists, looming soundtrack, heart racing action, unforgettable quotes.But the best part about this movie is that it has very few mistakes.
Everything is in the film for a reason. Still, I don't feel like I've covered most of the points of why this
movie was so good without spoiling anything. But I can say that when I watched it, it was something special. Looking
around at other reviews and forums, I have a feeling, that this will be
regarded as one of the best animated movies ever made.A+10 / 10Watch more reviews like this at
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfNozbWd9SJYYwLK2zYn_AA
