9
refreshingly Polynesian

From the opening lyrics to the final shot, Moana was a fun glimpse into
Polynesian life. Reminds me of Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron with
its depiction of tribal peoples, people who depend on the land and
environment to live. As one of the several catchy songs say, the island
gives them everything they need. No need to go beyond the reef.I'm glad that Moana and Zootopia, Disney's two most recent feature
films, humorously refer to the archetypal Disney traits that appear in
film after film -- i.e. an animal sidekick, the heroine bursting into
song, following your dreams. Even if they do year after year, it never
gets old. (... Well, maybe a little bit. I'm actually jaded by the
happy ending trope in practically every work of film, literature, etc.
out there. But that's beside the point.) Even if you can predict the
ending of Moana, it's not quite what you expected. Disney has recently
been changing things up a bit and having creative endings. Frozen, for
example. Even if they weren't slightly creative, the story still enacts
the Disney magic -- the ability to inspire, motivate, uplift, and
ultimately enlighten further on mankind's communal desire to go beyond
the norm. You don't have to do something amazing to make a name for
yourself. It's not the hook that defines you, it's what you do that
defines you and makes you who you are. Just don't follow hard tradition
all the time. If someone says you can't achieve your dreams, he/she is
most likely right. HOWEVER. That's only true if you don't give it your
all. Those right now who are living their dreams gave it their all. If
it's something you really want, after all, then naturally you'll give
it the necessary effort and force of will. It won't be easy; life
wasn't meant to be easy.It's not as amazing as Zootopia, but Moana is still a genuinely good
Disney movie. It has a superb single, a nice accompanying soundtrack,
great characters, sublime animation with crystal- clear attention to
detail, and wonderful themes and messages. I admit, I was expecting too
much from Moana after seeing Zootopia, which is probably why I give
Moana a 9. Zootopia hits the 10. If you haven't seen either one, I
recommend seeing Moana first.
