1
This was awfully awkward

"We'll use a coupon and get him a cheap hooker." Occasionally I feel like watching a comedy. I don't even mind if
there's some romance in it. A movie to watch while lying down on a cozy
seat in a lazy relaxing way, with a ridiculous big bowl of popcorn on
your bulging belly,hoping that it'll be flung off while viewing the
selected comedy. The more the bowl rolls of your belly, the better the
movie. That's a sign that there's quite a lot to laugh about. In "The
Awkward Moment" you can be sure that the bowl only leaves a circular
print on your stomach,because there's not much to laugh about in it.
And I doubt whether the level of romance is high enough to call this a
romantic comedy. Or romance means to you : having someone who you are
dangling an artificial carrot in front of when it's about your relation
and in the meantime maintain some nice looking members of the female
sex on the sideline.Jason (Zac Efron), Daniel (Miles Teller) and Mikey (Michael B. Jordan)
are three close friends from New York. One day Mikey tells them the
news that his wife Vera (Jessica Lucas) was waiting at home for him
with a lawyer and coolly announced that she wants a divorce. The lawyer
is also the guy she has an affair with and the one she's leaving him
for. The three make an agreement to remain single forever and just go
on with the art of conquering female beauty. Jason is the one with the
least problem with that, since this is his life's motto anyway, and he
claims that a relationship comes to an end, as soon as the partner
starts asking questions about where their relationship is actually
going to. It turns out that they aren't really able to keep up this
promise and they start to jump through hoops just to keep it hidden for
the partners in crime.So it's clearly a totally predictable, used several times and all but
funny subject. Most scenes were far from hilarious, let alone funny and
gave me repeatedly vicarious shame. Or you are of a certain age and you
wish you'd be in such a situation. And you also love toilet humor. You
would laugh about the endless remarks about someone taking a crap,
colored penises and sometimes vulgar sexist banal humor. In any case it
didn't impress me. I couldn't even smile about it.There were also some appalling unreal situations. The fact that Jason
runs away in panic after the first night with Ellie (Imogen Poots), who
by the way has a nose that could be used as an over sized coat rack,
because he saw evidence from which he could conclude that she could be
a prostitute, is one thing. But he can explain the whole matter
afterwards to Ellie and still get away with it. That sounds really
unlikely to me. "Oh yeah, I saw an envelope with money and those boots
next to the bed. I was sure you were a hooker. Isn't that funny ?
Hahahaha. What a hilarious situation .... ". I am sure that most women
would give you a big smack with their super massive Gucci handbag after
hearing this miserable excuse so it leaves a crocodile motif on your
face for weeks. And the fact that Mikey's wife starts messing around
because he's not spontaneous enough, is in a way understandable. But
it's amazing how quickly she changes her tack after being jumped on by
him in the hospital. Later she admits that she no longer loves him and
is still seeing the lawyer while Mikey had the impression that he was
saving his marriage. You could see that coming from afar. Apparently
Mikey isn't such a spontaneous sports freak in bed afterall.There was only one funny moment because of a simple misunderstanding.
That's when Jason appears on Ellie's party in a fairly compromising
outfit. The biggest part of this movie is filled with irritating
drivel, childish one-liners which humorous content is nil, straight
dumb sex and ongoing consumption of alcoholic beverages. A future
womanizer and Casanova could make use of this flick to bring his
seduction techniques to perfection and make notes of the empty idle
flattery and smooth talks. There were quite a few awkward moments for
me in "The awkward moment".More reviews at http://opinion-as-a-moviefreak.blogspot.be/
