1
Dumb movie, would not recommend

I'm sorry but what assembly of badly-cut nonsense scenes is this
shitpile of a movie? Mostly I'm sorry that they put that much money
into making this stupid movie. (12 mio.$, which is still too much) By
stupid, I do not mean to insult the movie, or the movie makers, but the
movie thoroughly is stupid. From the very beginning, you know how it
will end. You know more or less what the engravings on the box will
translate to, and that the main character will die because of it. Every
single thing that happens is annoyingly foreseeable.(Spoiler Alert!) So, the movie starts off with Clare being haunted by
her mother's suicide when she was little. Her father, Jonathan, who
dumpster dives like an addict, one day finds a music box with Chinese
engravings and gives it to his daughter as an early birthday present.
Clare manages to decipher ''Seven Wishes'' on the box. Of course, she
ignores the rest of whats written on the box, the small print, saying,
– as we find out afterwards – that every wish has a blood price and
that she'll die afterwards. (It will claim her soul.) After her first
wish, to rot the school bully Darcie, comes true, Clare's beloved dog
dies. Though, that does not seem to frighten Clare enough to stop. She
goes on wishing for dumb teenager stuff, and is surprised every time
someone dies. Only after her fourth wish, she realizes that it was
maybe not the best idea to go on like this. She now still makes wishes,
only that she starts feeling a little guilty. (3 people and her dog
died and she only NOW feels bad) As Clare's life is going down the
drain, she uses her seventh and last wish to travel back in time to the
day before her father found the music box. Instead of keeping everyone
away from it, she takes she music box and gives it to a friend in order
for him to bury it. Of course, out of curiosity he does not simply bury
it without checking it out. So, Clare gets run over and the music box,
with Clare's help, finds its next owner and target. Thank you Clare. A
mid-credit-scene of her friend with the music box indicates a sequel.
(please no sequel.)Besides the flawed and stupid plot, the jump-scares the movie tries to
make are really bad. The music builds up, and you already know what's
going to happen. This gets to the point that you are annoyed more and
more by every alleged jump-scare they try to make. Oh wait, I forgot -
what music? The only tension the movie manages to build up is the
tension to decide whether to leave the movie theater or hope for a good
end, that is not there. Also, the camera movements are really weird.
The producers maybe tried to be fancy and creative, but all they did
was confuse the viewers with weird angles and shots that do not fit.So, all in all, cinematography, music and the plot were disappointing.
Would not recommend this movie. If I had a music box to grant me the
wish to go back in time, I would go see another movie instead.
