3
Star Wars: The Force Gets Boring

Have you ever disagreed with someone about the quality of a production
so intensely that you've wondered if the two of you even watched the
same film? I'm sorry, everyone in the world, I thought The Force
Awakens was a real snoozer. I'm not surprised that my eight year old
nephew loved it, but I can't for the life of me figure out why the
adults I associate with aren't offended at what we've been offered by
Abrams as the continuation of the world's foremost loved space epic. Essentially what it feels like is a reboot of the original series,
except this time for kids (no surprise there, Disney), not a meaningful
continuation that picks up where the originals left off. Although I did
start having my doubts about my future satisfaction with the Star Wars
franchise when Disney made its Star Wars paraphernalia so pervasive
that one morning I found myself unconsciously buttering my toast with
DeathStar Margarine Spread©. Yeah—head trip, but I got over it. There was virtually zero discussion within the movie itself as to what
happened after episode Vl and how we got to where we are now, making
this production feel like a desperate lurch to be a stand-alone and to
appeal to an audience who is too young to have appreciated the Spice
Girls let alone the originals. This direction may be satisfying for
some, but for those of us who were expecting more will find ourselves
disappointed. Furthermore, I was saddened by the obvious deficiency
surrounding the exploration of the mythology of the Force. One of the
elements that so intrigued viewers about the originals was the
underlying spirituality and the metaphysical forces at play within the
Star Wars universe; however, in this version of Star Wars Abrams seems
to care more about the characters ceaselessly running away from things
and having meaningless, often silly conversation (like in one scene the
character Finn asks Rey in the goofiest way possible if she has a
boyfriend—I laughed but I was so ashamed) instead of exploring the
depths of some of the most intriguing supernatural philosophy in all of
moviedom. However, this fact is not surprising as the masses seem to be
entertained predominantly by action, comedy, flashing lights, and
explosions, not exploring the psychological latitudes of light and dark
within the human soul, and definitely not sitting through slow scenes
of dialogue which could (God forbid) give us an understanding of the
depths of the Star Wars legend and mystery. I suppose in this regard
(and in too many others) Abrams gave the people what they wanted.Not only was the confined exploration of the Force disappointing but so
was the serious lack of emotional poignancy. At no point, AT LITERALLY
NO POINT, did I feel sad, frustrated, anxious, worried, or exhilarated
during its belabored two hours and sixteen minutes. The characters felt
like they could be potentially cloned from any PG-13 teen movie you've
seen since Twilight hijacked the world and forced it's twisted,
disgusting version of acceptable adolescent stereotypes upon us. You
could almost swap out the light-sabers, tie-fighters, and storm
troopers and you'd have a great sequel to whatever the hell number
Hunger Games we're on these days (because that's how interesting the
rest of the plot was). Another thing that really annoyed me was the way in which the galaxy
was too American. Of course I get it, it was made by Hollywood IT IS
American, but guys, this is supposed to be in a GALAXY FAR AWAY, so why
was there very little attempt made to try and hide that? Between the
all too familiar mannerisms, jokes, and language I just couldn't fully
suspend my disbelief. In my opinion, the originals managed to avoid
most overt use of cultural indicators, I mean sure, it's impossible to
avoid all due to obvious limitations, but watch the main character Finn
carefully during the movie and you'll see that he's dripping with 21st
century western American dude. Like literally drenched. Where was the
otherworldly authenticity among the main characters? Of course it wasn't all bad. The visuals were beautiful, much of the
topography and effects were breathtaking, and I have to admit that I
did feel pangs of nostalgia over any scene that included an X-wing, but
overall it wasn't enough. Really a lot of what it comes down to is
expectation. So many people have told me that they went into it not
expecting too much and that they had "fun" watching it; and then
there's me sitting here thinking: what on Tatooine are they talking
about? With all the media hype this film received, not to mention the
disappointment of the prequels, I was expecting a hell of a lot out of
this movie, and simple fun ain't gonna cut it. Abrams seemed to have
carved the profundity and soul out of Star Wars with a lightsaber— the
same soul we've been waiting to enter our lives again ever since the
prequels ruined them. The Force Awakens was half way there, but it felt forced (pun
intended), shallow, in need of a more refined plot, more mature
characters, a deeper spirituality, moral complexity and depth; it
needed to resonate more deeply with the IMPORTANT themes of the
original, and to not have felt like a chaste teen romance with some old
faces in there used like a box office tractor beam. If you're content
with having your childhood favorite epic turned into a lovable, easily
digestible icon of twenty-first century pop culture, marketed
intentionally at young people to delight and entertain whilst
simultaneously causing you to cringe at the fact that the original
actors are okay with such a disservice to a beloved story, then you
will enjoy the continuation of this franchise. May the force save us from this trilogy.
