1
American Tragedy

Make no mistake. This film is not about recording history. It's about
making money.This film opens with two fatherly lessons being taught to a young Chris
Kyle: 1) How to kill a deer. 2) The world is made up of three kinds of
people; sheep (people who can't/wont' fight), wolves (evil people), and
shepherds (those who slay the evil people). then 9/11 - Kyle assumes
the mantle of the "shepherd" - and by default, if you are not him, or
like him, you are a wolf - then Iraq...Kyle, Bible in hand, and tens of thousands of other wrongly informed
American soldiers like him, go to Iraq to fight civilians in their
living rooms and on their streets, because they were told that Sadam
Hussian helped Al Qaida and was going to drop a bomb on us. None of
which was true and the administration knew it. Period. Even before the
March 2003 invasion of Iraq their claims of "yellowcake uranium from
Niger" and "the smoking gun that could come in the form of a mushroom
cloud" were THOROUGHLY discredited. Yes, discredited BEFORE the
invasion. Google "Nigerian embassy burglary/forged documents/Italian
magazine/rocco martino". The lack of self examination in this film regarding the war in Iraq is
as disturbing as it is staggering. American citizens and soldiers were
told that the necessity for this war was "nuclear weapons". That was
later amended to WMD (chemical and biological weapons). All of which,
the truly evil dictator denied having. We invaded anyway. And after the
invasion none were found. The Bush administration conducted two
exhaustive investigations (with their own hand picked investigators)
into Iraq's WMD program and the results from the Kay/Duelfer report in
2004!!! were: "Saddam ended his nuclear program in 1991. ISG found no
evidence of concerted efforts to restart the program. Iraq destroyed
its chemical weapons stockpile in 1991, and only a small number of old,
abandoned chemical munitions were discovered by the ISG." "Some" found
those facts to be inconvenient, so the next reason for fighting Iraqis
changed to "deposing a brutal dictator," (We should know. We armed him
in the '80s) "shutting down his torture and rape rooms, and spreading
European style democracy across the Middle East." Meanwhile Saudi
Arabia, a dictatorial monarchy run by kings, was the breeding ground
for the 19 hijackers who pulled off the worst attack, on U.S. soil, in
history on 9/11. And American soldiers are sent to fight for a lie with
unexamined motives surrounding religion and patriotism. Clint Eastwood has made some bizarre public appearances in recent
years. But here, with this film, he seems well past his shelf life by
papering over every shred of truth surrounding the worst foreign policy
disaster in American history with his giant pant load, "American
Sniper". Many brave soldiers put their lives and limbs on the line and
lost both. They deserve better than to be hemmed into the Iraq War
fable centered on a dubious character like Chris Kyle. The
sheep/wolves/shepherd, Bible, 9/11, fight 'em there, jingos all packed
together create a disturbing narrative that what the U.S. did in Iraq
was a good and just thing, and that Chris Kyle was an unproblematic
protector. The truth is more complicated and less flattering. Here are three statements Kyle made about the Iraqis: 1) "I wondered,
how would I feel about killing someone? Now I know. It's no big deal"
2) "Savage, despicable evil. That's what we were fighting in Iraq.
That's why a lot of people, myself included, called the enemy
'savages'. I only wish I had killed more." 3) "You do it until there's
no one left to kill. That's what war is. I loved what I did I'm not
lying or exaggerating to say it was fun."Here are three lies Chris Kyle told without shame or conscience: 1)
That he shot and killed two carjackers in Texas in 2009. 2) That he
punched Jesse Ventura in the face at a Navy Seals reunion. 3) That he
was stationed atop the Superdome during Hurricane Katrina and shot 30
American citizens to death. Chris Kyle is not, in real life, a one dimensional character/hero. He
does, however think in one dimension. We know that because he writes in
his book, "It's black and white. I don't see much gray." In fact this
film, who's stated message is one of shepherds, sheep, and wolves,
unwittingly invites the question as to whether we really know which is
which. And if "American Sniper" becomes an anthem to the Iraq war it
will become one more tragedy, piled atop a greater tragedy, piled atop
9/11. It is bad enough that it happened. It would be even worse to
carve this propaganda into stone. Chris Kyle is entitled to his world
view even if it's divorced from reality. His world view, however, is
not "the world". It's just the way he sees it. It is unnecessary to get into the merits of a film so completely devoid
of truth. The Iraq war was waged for the financial gain of the oil,
gas, and defense, industries. Iraq had no WMD, was not a threat to this
country, and did not become a democracy. This lie of a film was made
for the same bloody money that the war was waged for. In my IMDb review
of "Birth of a Nation" (an homage to the institution of slavery) I
wrote, and will repeat here, "it is beside the point whether or not
this film is good. It is an homage to something evil and therefore it's
merits, as a film, are irrelevant." Whether "American Sniper" is a good
film (In my opinion, plastic baby and all, it's no better than average)
is beside the point. It is based on an unexamined life and is as big a
blight on filmmaking as the invasion of Iraq was on humanity.
