5
Un rêve? Non!

I made the mistake of reading up on the life of the real Hugh Glass
(the character portrayed by Leonardo DiCaprio) before seeing the film.
What I saw on-screen was a very distorted/Hollywoodized version of his
story with lots of unnecessary racism thrown in (because, you know,
Hollywood just can't pass up the chance to bash Whitey whenever
possible). Inarritu takes a simple survival story and turns it into a
violent, gory revenge story. Sensationalism for the sake of
sensationalism abounds. So do clichés.There is some speculation that the real Hugh Glass may have married a
Pawnee Indian woman during a period (which ended a couple of years
before the events depicted in the film) when he lived with the tribe.
However, there is no surviving documentation, either public records or
correspondence to/from Glass, that mentions a wife. In the film, Glass
has a Pawnee wife who we see in flashbacks getting murdered by an evil,
White soldier because, you know, White people are horrible and
Hollywood wants you to know that.The real Hugh Glass had no children. Movie-Glass has a half-Indian son
who he coaches to act "invisible" because the (racist) White men they
work with will only see his skin color. His son later gets murdered by
an evil, White man because, you know, White people are awful and
Hollywood wants to make sure you understand that.Real-Glass never killed an army officer. Movie-Glass, it is revealed in
flashbacks, once killed an evil, White lieutenant who was trying to
murder his very young son because, you know, White people are just
terrible and Hollywood will not let you forget that.Real-Glass did not rescue a woman during his arduous journey back to
the fort. Movie-Glass not only rescues an Indian woman but he rescues
her while she's being raped by an evil, White, French guy because, you
know, White people (no matter where they're from) are just horrid and
Hollywood will remind you of that as often as possible.Real-Glass was helped along on his odyssey by some friendly Sioux
Indians, none of whom were killed by White people in the process.
Movie-Glass is helped by one Indian who is later murdered by evil,
White, Frenchmen because, you know, White people are reprehensible and
in case you still weren't sure yet Hollywood will BLUDGEON YOU OVER THE
HEAD WITH IT AGAIN AND AGAIN AND AGAIN!!!Fabricating a bunch of racist scenarios in order to move the story
along and provide impetus for the main character is cheap and lazy
screen-writing.Real-Glass did not get any revenge on John Fitzgerald, other than
getting his rifle back. Movie-Glass gets a very violent, bloody
revenge. Real-Glass eventually let go of his anger and forgave Bridger
and Fitzgerald. Movie-Glass has a weird quasi-redemption where he stops
short of finishing Fitzgerald off but then sends him on to certain
death at the hands of another. So, is that redemption, really?The film goes way overboard depicting Glass as a super-man. I'm sure
men were made of sturdier stuff back in the 1820s but when he and the
horse hit that tree I just thought, "Oh, COME ON!!" The guy wasn't even
fully recovered from getting mauled (and rolled on) by a 300-400 pound
grizzly bear yet! And, no, he did not fall off a cliff in real life.
Did I mention that the bear attack actually happened in August and
Glass reached the fort in October? So, there was no crawling through
snow or wading through icy water in freezing temperatures either. How
would he not have hypothermia and/or frostbite after weeks of that?!Movie-Glass occasionally has dreams where he hears his dead wife
murmuring analogies about trees because nothing screams, "This movie is
really, really deep!" like whispered dream-guidance from a dead
Native-American.Yes, there is lots of striking cinematography of beautiful scenery.
Much has been made of the fact that Inarritu used only natural light
and it does work well with the tone of the film.The bear attack is both impressive and horrifying. If you know anything
about how to react to a bear attack you will cringe in horror at Glass'
stupidity. (Note to screenwriter: bears HIBERNATE in the Winter!)The music is good.I was surprised that DiCaprio won the Golden Globe and I'll be
disappointed if he wins the Oscar. He gives a good performance in the
film but I just don't think it's an Oscar-caliber role."The Revenant" is sensational but not in a good way.
