6
One for the ladies (and gentlemen)

The usherette tittered when I bought my ticket. 'Why do you laugh?' I
asked. 'Because only girls are watching this'. Clearly this is someone
who doesn't believe in the universality of cinema. Yes, Steven
Soderbergh's latest features male strippers, and yes it will appeal
more to a certain demographic, but so will every film. Audiences may be
disparate but films are androgynous. Or should be. As 'Magic' Mike, charming Channing Tatum naturally gets top billing,
but the film revolves around Adam (rising star Alex Pettyfer). Adam is
a congenital loser, the kind of guy who refuses to wear a tie and
wonders why he can't sustain a job. He lives with his sister, Brooke
(Cody Horn), whose acting conveys a suspicion of men, presumably
because she has only her wayward brother as a yardstick. Adam finds work on a construction site with Mike, who sees the
desperation of Adam's situation and entices him to join his exotic
dancing troupe, Xquisite, led by Dallas (Matthew McConaughey). Dallas
astutely exploits Adam's naivety by branding him 'The Kid', an
amateurish, sloppy act, which the ladies love. The next three months
are a non-stop orgy of girls, booze and drugs: everything a man like
Adam could wish for. This lifestyle has lost its appeal for Mike, now 30, who only took up
professional undressing to become a bespoke furniture salesman. He no
longer wishes to hold out for the phantom 10% of the business Dallas
keeps promising him, but poor credit keeps him on the pole. (Tatum
again stars in a role which brings out his effortless charisma and
sweetness.)McConaughey recently impressed me in William Friedkin's 'Killer Joe',
and now this film has completely changed my mind about him. He's gone
from my dud to my stud list in just two films. And Pettyfer works
because he doesn't work, if you see what I mean. Although an ex-model,
he's not 'stripper material' (not that I'd know much about that sort of
thing), yet there's a naturalness to his acting, which works. Although not in the same league as some of Soderbergh's other titles
(notably 'Traffic' and 'Out of Sight'), there's enough going on to
warrant a viewing. Characters are well written, lives intersect in an
unforced manner, motivations are believable. There's plenty of saucy
(and quite impressive) dancing to keep the majority of this film's
audience happy, but there's also a decent story for those who aren't
watching exclusively for nudity. www.moseleyb13.com
