3
Maybe next time

I've wanted to see a wolverine movie that was fast paced, action
packed, with a good storyline that would be well received by critics
for the longest time. In my opinion wolverine is by far the most
interesting of the x men characters. However this was not the wolverine
I was waiting for. Yes it was action packed and I honestly enjoyed the
fight scenes, but it was just shocking. This movie was flaw central. It
saddens me to know that this was truly Hugh Jackmans last attempt at
Wolverine, because we all know he's just too old for another attempt.
And no one wants to see him as wolverine fighting off the bad guys at
45, it would be unbecoming. The characters in this story were
ridiculous. I could tell from the moment they met that Wolverine was
going to get with Mariko, but part of me just would not accept it, up
until that fatal night when they kissed. A kiss which lacked any
conviction or real passion, it was laughable. The oddest on screen
couple I've seen since Matt Damon and Michael Douglas in Behind The
Candelabra. They were painfully awkward. The arch villain serpant lady
was atrocious. The ostentatious villain that we never even learn why or
how she came about to work for Yashida with undiminishing loyalty, or
what her general goal was. Yashida himself was a tedious villain and we
didn't really here much about his life after Nagasaki. Mariko's father
was a perpetual imbecile I could not fathom why he was even mentioned
in the movie his character had no real significance. My favourite
character had to have been Yuriko at least her motives were clear,
Mariko was sort of a sister to her and it was obvious from the outset
she wanted a slice of the wolverine pie. Now that couple would have at
least been believable because she was bad ass and fearless. Her psychic
powers were a bit ridiculous though she didn't really foresee anything
worthwhile did she. The fight scenes were enjoyable though especially
with the deadly ninja assassins creeping through the night, descending
from rooftops and snapping necks like nobody's business. Yuriko was
pretty sharp too, I was never really worried for her character, she
could hold her own.... she had enough sass. It's a tragedy though I
truly believe that Hugh Jackman was the perfect wolverine he just
didn't get the movie he deserved. Well my advice is to wait a few years
until the stench from this movie clears and then find a 20 year old
Hugh Jackman doppelganger and create a Wolverine with some substance.
It can't be that hard it has so much potential.
