2
Confucius says, stick to rapping.

Produced (not directed or written) by Quentin Tarantino (so you know
it's going to be bad) "The Man with the Iron Fists", Wu Tang Clan
member RZA's first try behind the camera, doesn't disappoint as far as
"bad" movies go. This is truly an exercise in visual and structural
ineptitude, which could only be the work of an amateur filmmaker. RZA,
starring alongside an obese Russell Crowe and Cung Le (which should
tell you all you need to know) in this rather poor grindhouse homage to
old Kung Fu movies, narrates the simplistic story of a black blacksmith
(RZA) who must protect his village from a deadly band of assassins. But
even this story takes a hit, as it becomes overcomplicated by RZA's
dreadful storytelling abilities. This mess of a film also stars Lucy
Liu, who is by far the most tolerable character, playing the Madam of
the town brothel. But not even Liu playing a watered down version of
her character in "Kill Bill: Vol: 1" or a halfway decent final battle
sequence can conceal the amount of problems that essentially cut "The
Man with the Iron Fists" off at the wrists. Truthfully, I haven't
wanted to like a movie this much and been so very disappointed by the
result since "Battle LA".Why is this movie so bad? Well, the fact that the entire movie
distractingly switches back and forth from English to Mandarin (I am
only speculating) for reasons unexplained to the viewer, is the first
of many head shakingly dreadful decisions made by RZA. But for a more
in-depth breakdown, the following is a very brief (that is, if you
enjoy long rants) analysis of RZA's first film: RZA is no writer: While the classic Martial Arts film concept itself is
interesting, the script co-written by RZA himself, as well as Eli Roth
(Tarantino's protégé) is rather weak. Surprisingly RZA (only one of the
best DJ's/lyricist alive) can't write dialogue to save his life. And
while Roth has never been a master of the spoken word himself, it
becomes all too obvious between which lines of dialogue RZA has written
and which are insertions from Roth, when a character goes on a stiff 5
minute rant that ends with a rather Tarantino-esque one-liner. As for
the story itself, the problem lies in that it becomes overly cramped
with stupid subplots. Every time the story begins to head in a finite
direction, RZA does his damnedest to add another idiotic twist, or have
the character cease all action in order to spout out one more bit of
needless exposition, complicating matters for an audience that was
barely on board to begin with.RZA is no director: Sometimes a filmmaker can get away with gratuitous
violence because it is intricate to the story (or sometimes simply on
pedigree alone). But when your story hangs on by a thread and your
directing is suspect, the sporadic occurrence of intense brutality
doesn't so much come off as shocking, as much as it adds to the
clunkiness of the film. Now, RZA does use some stylized camera
techniques that obtain a semblance of that cool-factor he is looking
for, but yet again, problems arise when he uses them in excess.RZA is no actor: Maybe the least important aspect of a grindhouse film
like this is the acting, although there is something to be said for a
self controlled actor who knows how to overact. In saying that, every
scene with RZA, is almost comically stunted by his inability to hold
his own around A and B-list actors and actresses. His own character
must run the gambit of emotions here, from anger, to sorrow, to a man
who is in severe anguish. So, if anything, his own script asks too much
of him.Something good: If you try hard enough, you can probably find something
good to say about any moviewell, maybe except for "Grown Ups". In the
case of "The Man with the Iron Fists"umwellthe soundtrack is good
(although, at times ridiculously misused) but this is to be expected
since music is what RZA does (NOT DIRECTING). Final Thought: I do
realize the intention of a film like "The Man with the Iron Fists" is
to champion a hardy slathering of over-the-topness, but that doesn't
change the fact that this is quietly one of the worst directed films of
the year. At times it's so bad that one would wonder how Quentin
Tarantino thought it was a good idea to financially back this project
at all. But on the other hand, it wouldn't shock me if it were to come
to light that Tarantino had given RZA the money, called up a few of his
actor buddies, and told Eli Roth to make his script readable, as a
repayment for RZA's work on the Kill Bill soundtracks. Written by Markus Robinson, Edited by Nicole I. AshlandFollow me on Twitter @moviesmarkus
