8
People don't know what they're talking about!

I gave this movie an 8. Simply put, it is a throwback to how kung fu
flicks use to be. I prefer the old ones over the new ones. The old ones
are more authentic, the new ones, not so much, excluding the legend of
yip man movies, which I'll guarantee most people who watched this film
and downgraded it, never even heard of the movie or the man for that
matter. People knocked the violence of this movie and deemed it,
"unnecessary". While I would agree with that part at certain junctures
in this movie, it is no more violent then Kill Bill 1 or 2, and looked
at the rating on those films. So that's just a cop out by many pointing
a finger at that.Matter fact, look at "Five Deadly Venoms", which is a classic and
arguably the best kung fu film ever made. Has a rating of "7", on IMDb.
Now, look at Kill bill 1 and 2. BOTH films are rating higher than Five
Deadly Venoms! This makes the average Asian person laugh they *** off,
and any westerner or happens to know the nature and the culture of
martial art films.Bottom line, when it comes to martial art films, Americans don't know
s***. The Asian and Eastern world knows it. Some of us here know it.
Americans actually believe Van Dame films qualifies them on the
subject. So as such, we like American martial art films that are about
as authentic to martial arts as French bread is to French cuisine. For
everyone knocking the RZA's acting in the movie. As an Action or
Martial Arts film, the lead NEVER has been or needs to be a superb
actor! Van Dame Sucks! And people love his movies at one time. Bruce
Lee is the greatest innovator to martial arts as far as progression and
bringing it to main stream audience, but he would not win an Oscar for
his acting. These types of films do not call for strong acting, but for
strong dialogue and fighting sequences. Just like old Arnold and
Sylvester films. Great action actors, not great Actors by any stretch.So to sum it up, you're opinion is your opinion, but I'll let you know
you don't know what the hell you're talking about.
