10
I love everything about Her

This is the best film I have seen all year, and I saw just about every
good film to hit theaters in 2013. I think it's because it is so
representational of what it's like to be human.There are so many things that make this movie special, but I'll just
mention a few. 1. The score is INCREDIBLE. The music paired with the beautiful sound
design make you FEEL the movie. Sure, you see everything on the screen,
which is already beautiful, but then that music hits you and the
emotions just start to run. I laughed, I cried, my brain got all
tingly. It was an emotional roller coaster, and the score assisted in
that so well. 2. The script. I knew how this movie was going to end 30 minutes in.
And unlike most who would then say that it's predictable and not worth
watching, I consider that awesome, because it means that the script is
tight enough to tell a good story with a believable arc. Every scene in
this movie is straight up powerful! Like it will fill your heart with
sadness and happiness and pain and guilt and confusion. And then rinse
and repeat. For 2 hours. It moves through all of the most complex and
interesting questions that we should be asking ourselves about what it
means to be a human being. About what it means to be alive. This film
is about all that life is. And after the screening, as well as during,
I found myself questioning things in my own life that either don't make
sense or don't have to make sense. Like love and thoughts and emotions.
They're all so natural and yet none of us truly understand how they
work. In my opinion, moreso than any other film this year, Her has the
perfect mix of complex ideas, story, and character development. One of
the best scripts ever written. 3. Cinematography. My personal favorite shot to see and use is the
extreme close up. And that shot was all over this movie. The reason I
love it so much and believe it works so well is because it allows you
to see the emotions of the character so plainly. Like their face is
right in your face, so you just have to look at it. And that's where
Joaquin shines. He delivers such a powerful and emotional performance
and the close ups are there to capture it all. They also make great use
of the natural backlighting of Shanghai, and the colors all fuse to
make it a really pretty movie. I'd say the cinematography is on par
with Drive and/or Lost in Translation in terms of the style. It looks
like every shot was photographed with the intent to make it the most
beautiful shot in the film. And I admire the DP's work. He did a really
great job. More than anything though, this film just made me feel. Everything
about it was so beautiful. I didn't want it to end. I felt like the
film was controlling me - playing with my mind as if it were a
joystick. And that's just something you don't get every day. Very
rarely am I awe- stricken by a movie, and this film made my jaw drop.
It is without a doubt the best film of the year, and upon just one
viewing, one of my top 5 favorite movies of all time.
