7
I liked it

I really want to draw attention to the title of the review above. I'm
sure many die-hard potterheads would want every review on this site to
score this movie 10/10 and say it is a masterpiece. Well I can't do
that, since that isn't my honest opinion. What I can say though is that
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them is a thoroughly entertaining
affair that is well worth a watch, especially if you're a fan of J.K.
Rowling's magical world. For starters the cast was great. Eddie Redmayne feels perfectly cast in
main role as Newt Scamander. A very awkward and introverted person who
prefers the company of animals rather than humans. He has the
quirkyness down to a tee. I also really liked the muggle (or no-maj as
the Americans call him) played by Dan Fogler. How he reacts to the
whole wizarding world and the events that happen around him is actually
really funny. I also thought Katherine Waterstone and Alison Sodul did
great playing two sisters who wind up roped in to the whole adventure. The creatures are the best part of the entire movie by far. They CGI on
them looks kind of fake, but it's more than made up for by the concepts
alone. Almost all of them have some clever twerk that keep them from
feeling generic and they're all filled with personality. The sequences
when they're catching these creatures are all really fun to watch. However there are some problems with this movie. For one it has way too
many side characters. A lot of them feel completely underdeveloped and
add basically nothing to the overall story (*cough* Jon Voight
*cough*). There's also a magical threat that becomes more central
towards the end but it honestly kind of left me scratching my head. I
just wasn't that engaged in that part of the story to be honest. Still these problems are not enough to ruin the movie by any means.
It's filled with wonder and creativity and being back in the world of
witchcraft and wizardry is worth the price of admission alone. I
enjoyed the characters, the humour and the creatures a whole lot. I
also want to give J.K. Rowling huge credit for not just rehashing the
Harry Potter story again. This is fresh and new and while it isn't
flawless by any means it's certainly entertaining!
