8
Creepy and satisfying

Lights Out takes some queues from Japanese-styled ghost stories, so it
will be attractive to that audience. It has a strong chill-factor but a
somewhat average formula, and it could have used fewer back-story
explanations to make it more mysterious, especially since those
elements did not feel original. Based on chill factor alone, it ranks higher than Dark Water, The
Forest, Paranormal Activity, The Others, The Babadook, and The Boy, and
lower than The Ring, Ju-On / The Grudge, and other Japanese-styled
ghost stories, as well as any horror James Wan himself directs.
Comparing it to masterpieces like The Exorcist and Poltergeist has no
value. I would say its chills rank somewhat evenly with The Woman in Black and
It Follows, without being as original as the latter.The ghost itself is creepy enough, but the overall movie didn't have
the creative twists that we enjoyed from movies like The Boy, The
Others, The Sixth Sense, and 10 Cloverfield Lane. It also didn't have
the storytelling chemistry of James Wan's own Insideous or The
Conjuring movies.I am a fairly difficult person to frighten. I have been seeing horror
movies at the theater since the 70's, and I am usually only interested
in the ones that have a supernatural or fantastical element to them. So
I am very critical of them, and the only ones I collect on disc are
either fun (Tremors), scary (the Grudge), or both (An American Werewolf
in London). I will collect this one.Ghost stories are done to death. It is very difficult to come out with
anything scary that is original. I think Lights Out could have used the
guided hand of a third-party master horror writer, mostly revising the
back-story revelations and using the character relationships to build
suspense and mystery surrounding what is going on. Then, perhaps
working up to a punch line at the end so that suddenly the back- story
rushes in on the audience in one moment, with one simple revelation. It
is very difficult to think of how that can be done, but other movies
have done it, and the payoff is huge. I think Lights Out tried to do that a little but got confusing in the
attempt. But all-in-all it's a nice little scary movie with a smaller production
value but a satisfying ghost.
