5
Disappointing on so many levels

As an avid Sci-Fi fan, I was eager to see the last big SF movie of the
summer. The trailer seemed exciting and both director/screenwriter
Neill Blomkamp and the main star Mat Damon are big names, so I had some
expectations (not very high, mind you). Unfortunately, it turned out to
be a big disappointment. So, let start with the post mortem.The good. This will be a short section. Good special effects, both the
CGI and the stunts were spectacular. Elysium was great. The
cinematography was fine. There were some cool ideas like the
exoskeleton (not that original but it was well done nonetheless).The bad. Everything else. The plot was a mess, the characters were
unlikable and/or underdeveloped, the character motivation was
absolutely ridiculous and the character development (when there was
any) was rushed and artificial.The main character Max is not a likable person. All the sympathy I had
towards him quickly vanished when he tried to be a smart ass around the
robot cops in the beginning of the movie. How stupid you have to be do
such a thing when you have a long rap sheet and are still on parole? We
are supposed to believe that there was a big love story between Max and
his childhood sweetheart and yet they haven't seen each other for
decades. He didn't even know she had a kid. The extensive flashbacks to
the 10-year old Max were nothing more than a diversion from the
extremely underdeveloped characters.The boss of the smugglers to Elysium is only interested in money, which
is fine and realistic but at the middle of the movie he has a sudden
and inexplicable change of hart and everything he wants is to help his
fellow citizens. Never mind that he practically killed a lot of them,
taking all of their money for 1% chance to be healed and 99% chance to
be killed.All villains are cardboard cutouts without any soul. Maybe this is a
consequence of the heavy-handed political propaganda but nonetheless
you will rarely find more ridiculous and unbelievable villains. Kruger
had hilarious accent and the Jodi Foster was very weak as the "tough"
but extremely transparent and stupid anti-immigration official of
Elysium.Now the smaller but still annoying things: 1. You have 3 ships that are
just few hundred kilometers from Elysium but to take them down, you
have to call a man on Earth, who launches 4 Stinger rockets in space
and they fly with something like a 1000 miles per second to strike the
ships about 10 to 15 seconds later. Absolutely deranged. Why not launch
missiles from the space station itself? Wait, I know why! To introduce
us to Kruger. Weak, weak writing, Mr. Blomkamp.2. The atmosphere of Elysium just stands there even though there is
nothing above to hold it in place. Well, the Moon and Mars are not big
enough to hold significant atmosphere with their gravitational field,
but a space station less than 500 kilometers across is? Would it kill
them to have a force field or something to keep the air in place? Again
extremely stupid.3. You can be revived 15 minutes after you face is blown by a grenade
because "your brain is still intact". Still, when you are shot in the
heart or bleed to dead with severed artery, you are beyond saving.
Wait, what? 4. A man with crappy exoskeleton is tougher than a military
robot.5. There are robots everywhere and they seem really capable but the
corporations still need low-skilled workers to work on assembly lines
doing mundane, simple task that even now are done by robots.I can continue but it's really painful. I hope that most of these
shortcomings are caused by the need to shove down our throats the
simplistic political views of the director because the alternative is
to think that District 9 was just plain luck.Compare this BS with the Slumdog millionaire and you will see a movie
that effectively carries a social commentary with much better plot,
characters and message.5 out of 10 stars and I'm extremely generous.
