4
Another disappointing horror origin movie.

As a child, Jed Sawyer is taken from his murderous hillbilly family and
put in the Gorman House Youth Reformatory, where he spends the next ten
years with a new identity. When the prisoners revolt, a small group
make a bid for freedom with pretty nurse Lizzy (Vanessa Grasse) and
fellow inmate Jackson as their hostages.Tobe Hooper's original The Texas Chain Saw Massacre ranks as one of the
scariest films ever made, its iconic killer Leatherface its most
frightening creation. With this latest film in the series, they've gone
and done what Rob Zombie did with his godawful Halloween remake: give
the killer a back story. In humanising the character, they have
lessened his effectiveness as an object of fear. Once an emotionless,
uncontrollable monster, impossible to reason with, he is now someone we
can identify with and feel a level of pity for. It didn't work for
Michael Myers and it doesn't work here.The origins story-line also makes much of the film seem frustratingly
unlike a Texas Chainsaw movie, at times even reminding me of a
Tarantino flick (the escape from Gorman House made me think of Natural
Born Killers while the BBQ stop massacre was redolent of both NBK and
Pulp Fiction). Only in the film's closing moments do things actually
feel like they belong to the franchise, with Lizzy trying to escape the
Sawyer's charnel house, a chainsaw wielding Jed (soon to become
Leatherface) hot on her heels. Directors Alexandre Bustillo and Julien
Maury don't hold back on the brutality and blood, but even so, I can
imagine many fans of the series being disappointed with the level of
splatter (too much for some, not enough for others).5.5 out of 10, rounded down to 5 for that really dumb scene in which
three people (including one really fat guy) hide from the law by
climbing inside the festering carcass of a steer. A really big steer.
Also, minus half a point for the unbelievable necro sex scene. And
another half point subtracted for Jed's sudden (and also completely
unbelievable) transformation from rational human being to hulking
homicidal maniac.
