7
Holy Rabies! It's time to once again to check in, at Hotel Transylvania. I think you'll like your stay. Even if it's not as good as you remember it.

This sequel to the 2012 original film is indeed a monster mash, but
it's not a graveyard smash for the most part. Still, the animation film
is still watchable for a family friendly flick for the Halloween
season. Once again, directed by fame animator, Genndy Tartakovsky,
Hotel Transylvania 2 tells the story of Dracula (Voiced by Adam
Sandler), who has since, been more open-minded with his relationship
with human beings, since the last movie. While things are going great
on the business side, Dracula is still worried about his family, mostly
about his half-vampire, half-human grandson Dennis (Voiced by Asher
Blinkoff), because he isn't showing any signs of being a vampire.
Since, Dennis hasn't show any signs to be immortal, Dracula's adult
daughter, Mavis (Voiced by Selena Gomez) believes that the castle might
not to be the best place to raise a human child, so she wants to visits
her in-laws place in California with her husband Jonathan (Voiced by
Andy Sanberg) to see if that's a good place to relocate. Fearing he'll
lose his daughter and grandson, forever, Dracula must tries to push
Dennis to his limits, in hope to get his inner monster, out, so Mavis
will change her mind. Will Dracula be successful with his attempts or
will Dracula have to learn to adapt, that his daughter is all grown up
and ready to leave the nest? Watch the movie to find out! Without
spoiling the movie, too much, I have to say, this movie was somewhat
disappointing. Yes, it clearly have some positive messages about family
unity, tolerance and diversity that children could learn from; but
sadly, this animated comedy also lacks the emotional heart, social
commentary and funny humor, that really shine in the first movie. The
whole deus ex machina ending with Dracula's own father, Vlad (Voiced by
Mel Brooks) was very anticlimax and really comes out of nowhere. Mel
Brooks was so misused in this. I wish, he had more screen time, than he
got. Honestly, the lack of screen time, kinda hurts his bad guy turn
good guy role. It wasn't believable, when he does it. How does a
prejudiced vampire father, who isn't tolerant of humans, changes his
views, he's had of humans for hundreds if not thousands of years in
roughly two minutes, because his great-grandson is half-human. Come on,
movie! The whole diversity issue between monsters & humans from the
first movie was somewhat, the best thing about the first film. I felt
that it was really lacking here. I was really hoping, more 1967's Guess
Who's Coming to Dinner, type of smart humor with Vlad. Honestly, Hotel
Transylvania 2 would be, a stronger movie, if it didn't cop out;
because it can somewhat relatable to real-life parents. Indeed, one
day, your adult children might move out, and make a life of their own.
You just have to learn, how to deal with it. It would have been, a very
good message for both young & older parents as well as their children.
While, the single Tex Avery-influenced animated motion is beautifully
well-made & will surely amuse the younger children. Having that message
would make this film, so much better. It would had brought back the
emotional impact that I love from the first film, between Dracula &
Mavis. Another problem about the film, is the lack of the Hotel
settling. Yes, most of it, is still placed in Transylvania, but for a
film call Hotel Transylvania 2, it really has nothing to do with the
hotel, this time. I would love, if the movie add a sub-plot of Dracula
trying to have Mavis, be his heir to the family business and forcing
her to choose between turning Jonathan & Dennis into immortal vampires
by biting them, or to leave them as mortal humans. It would make a
more-well-rounded in-depth film. Regards of what ifs, the movie as a
whole was entertaining. Some of the humor was funny, but most of it,
was meh. I really, could do, without those clean-cut 'Family Guy'
style, humorous cut scenes & outlandish pop culture songs interrupts.
They really fall flat. Adam Sandler once again, works great as Dracula.
You can tell, that he really loves, playing this role. After all,
Sandler signed up, for the original film, just to make a movie that, he
and his daughter, Sadie can watch, together. You really can tell that
Sandler cut down on his man-child toilet-base shtick, just to make this
kid-targeted humor film, work. For the most part, it kinda does. Once
again, Sandler's film buddies: Kevin James, Steve Buscemi & David
Spade, are able to find work, because of his influence in production.
The only different, this time, is that Keegan-Michael Key, replacing
CeeLo Green as Murray the Mummy, due to previous actor/singer Ceelo
Green being arrested, during film production in 2014. In my opinion,
Keegan-Michael Key is a lot funnier than CeeLo Green, ever was, in this
role. For the rest of the roles, Selena Gomez and Andy Sanberg are
still wonderful. I do love their funny sub-story adventure in
California. To the film credit, Hotel Transylvania 2 does takes the
characters in some new and interesting directions, that I didn't see
coming. I do like the odd, sly nods and allusions to old horror movies,
with a slight mixer with 21 century technology humor and social media
references. While, the necrophilia overtones can be somewhat gross &
jarring when thinking too deep about it. The only thing, I really hated
about the film, is how it kinda insults 1931's Dracula, by naming the
bad guy in the film, Bela. That was really offensive to the fan-based.
Overall: While, Hotel Transylvania 2, doesn't reach the same heights as
its predecessor, it still somewhat top-notch. A great Halloween treat,
worth trick or treating.
