5
Exercising Your Damons

Millions of people watching the 2017 Oscars would have seen Jimmy
Kimmel roasting poor Matt Damon as a part of their long running 'feud'.
At one point he points out that Matt gave up the leading role in
"Manchester by the Sea" to star in a "Chinese ponytail movie" that
"went on to lose $80 million at the box office". "The Great Wall" is
that movie! So is it really that bad?Well, it's no "Manchester by the Sea" for sure. But I don't think it's
quite the total turkey that critics have been labelling it as either. I
went to see it on a Sunday afternoon, and approaching it as a matinée
bit of frothy action is a good mental state to be in.Matt Damon plays the ponytailed-wonder William, a European mercenary
travelling in 11th Century China with his colleague Tovar (Pedro
Pascal) in an attempt to determine the secrets of black powder – a
secret well-guarded by the Chinese. Captured by the 'New Order' at the
Great Wall and imprisoned there by General Shao (Hanyu Zhang), William
earns the respect of Shao and his beautiful warrior second- in- command
Lin Mae (Tian Jing) with his bowmanship. This is almost immediately put
to use by the arrival (after 60 year's absence – a funny thing, timing,
isn't it?) of hoards of vicious creatures called Taoties. (I thought
they said Tauntauns initially, so was expecting some sort of
Chinese/Star Wars crossover! But no.)Taoties who scale the wall are defeated by William who poleaxes them.
(This is an attempt at brilliant humour to anyone who has already seen
the film – poleaxe…. get it? POLEaxe. Oh, never mind!) Despite being a
mercenary at heart, William is torn between staying and helping Lin Mae
fight the beasts and fleeing with Tovar, their new chum Ballard (Willem
Dafoe) and their black powder loot. (I'm sure something about Lin Mae's
tight-fitting blue armour was influential in his decision). This is an historic film in that although in recent years there has
been cross-fertilization of Chinese actors into Western films for
box-office reasons (for example, in the appalling "Independence Day:
Resurgence" and the much better Damon vehicle "The Martian") this was
the first truly co-produced Chinese/Hollywood feature filmed entirely
in China. It might also be the last given the film's $150 million
budget and the dismal box-office! To start with some positives, you can rely on a Chinese-set film (the
film location was Qingdao) to allow the use of an army of extras and –
although a whole bunch of CGI was also no doubt used – some of the
battles scenes are impressive. There is a stirring choral theme by
Ramin Djawadi (best known for his TV themes for "Game of Thrones" and
the brilliant "Westworld") played over silk-screen painted end titles
that just make for a beautiful combination. And Tian Jing as the
heroine Lin Mae is not only stunningly good-looking but also injects
some much needed acting talent into the cast, where most of those
involved (including Damon himself) look like they would rather be
somewhere else. And some of the action scenes are rather fun in a 'park your brain by
the door' sort of way, including (nonsensically) cute warrior girls
high-diving off the wall on bungey ropes to near certain death. While
the CGI monsters are of the (yawn) over-the-top LoTR variety, their
ability to swarm like locusts at the Queen's command is also quite
entertainingly rendered.Where the movie balloon comes crashing down to earth in flames though
is with the story and the screenplay – all done by three different
people each, which is NEVER a good sign.The story (by Max Brooks ("World War Z"), Edward Zwick and Marshall
Herskovitz (both on "The Last Samurai") is plain nonsensical at times.
No spoilers here, but the transition from "wall under siege" to "wall
not under siege" gives the word 'clunky' a bad name. As another
absurdity, the "New Order" seem amazed how William was able to slay one
of the creatures (thanks to the poleaxing 'McGuffin' previously
referenced) but then throughout the rest of the film he slays creatures
left right and centre (McGuffin-less) through just the use of a spear
or an arrow! Bonkers.Things get worse when you add words to the actions. The screenplay by
Carlo Bernard and Doug Miro (both "Prince of Persia: The Sands of
Time") and Tony Gilroy (Tony Gilroy? Surely not he of all the "Bourne"
films and "Rogue One" fame? The very same!) has a reading age of about
an 8 year old. It feels like it has been translated into Chinese and
then back again to English with Google Translate. "Is that the best you
can do?" asks Tovar to William at one point. I was thinking exactly the
same thing.The combination of the cinematography and the special effects have the
unfortunate effect of giving the film the veneer of a video game, but
this is one where your kid-brother has stolen the controls and refuses
to give them back to you.Having had the great thrill of visiting a section of The Great Wall
near Beijing, I can confirm that it is an astonishing engineering
masterpiece that has to be seen to be truly believed. It ranks as one
of the genuine wonders of the world. The same can not be said of this
movie. Early teens might enjoy it as a mindless action flick. But
otherwise best avoided until it emerges on a raining Sunday afternoon
on the TV.(For the graphical version of this review, and to comment, please visit
bob-the-movie-man.com).
