8
A reunion I was so glad to attend!

There is really not much to say here except that the return of Stifler
and his posse....and just about every single memorable character from
the first three films...are welcomed back with open arms in "American
Reunion." After three absolutely sensational, immature-but-awesome
comedies about sex, masturbation and fart jokes (somewhat ignoring the
somewhat mediocre offshoots "Band Camp," "The Naked Mile," "Beta House"
and "The Look of Love"), I really did not know if, over a decade later,
with all the actors and characters older, they could recapture the
crude magic that made the first three instalments such comedy classic.Guess what? They did.It is now thirteen years later and the crew converge upon their high
school, all grown up now, for their, you guessed it, high school
reunion. And yes, the film relies heavily on nostalgia and clichés
about friends, sex and lost love, but the writing here is so great, it
really doesn't matter. The film continues the series' reputation of
being politically incorrect and walking the line of taste while still
managing to present it all in a way that makes the audience laugh out
loud despite themselves. All the main characters returned, played by
all the original actors including Jason Biggs, Alyson Hannigan, Sean
William Scott, Chris Klein, Thomas Ian Nicholas and Eddie Kaye Thomas.
Jennifer Coolidge is still as much a MILF as Stifler's mom while Eugene
Levy, the only one to appear in ever single incarnation of these films,
continues his signature role of Jim's dad. Even Tara Reid and Mena
Suvari are back in the mix.Loads of ridiculous situations, a disgusting hijink and fantastically
hilarious comedy ensues as the gang gets back together, having aged
stupendously (Klein's body has gotten even more porn-worthy) and making
this long-awaited return well worth the time and effort. And if this
film makes the box office it deserves, we may just get invited back to
the party one more time. And I'll be there with bells on.
