1
If the studio doesn't care, why should I?

No one involved with this movie cared about making a good movie.
Because they don't need to. The Spiderman movies will make money no
matter good or bad they are. But that doesn't mean they should not try
to. Why did this movie get made? Simple, Sam Raimi wasn't given enough
time to make a fourth spider-man film so he quit, and the fans wanted
to see the lizard on screen. This movie wasn't made for any other
reason.First off, Peter Parker doesn't have a goal in this movie. At first its
to find out what happened to his parents, which isn't explained in this
movie. After half an hour he now tries to control his new powers, in
scenes that don't help the audience. In the original spider-man, Peter
learned about his powers in a controlled environment, he didn't beat up
innocent people on a subway train. It's nice to know no one on that
train reported that a man beat up five people while climbing walls. But
Peter learning his powers can't be an entire focus in the movie, so we
kill Uncle Ben. This time it doesn't work because the only reason Peter
let the criminal get away was because Peter couldn't get a chocolate
milk. To get so upset that he couldn't afford a chocolate milk that he
would let a robber get away with the stores money is a contrivance in
every way. So for about ten minutes Peters new goal is to bring uncle
Ben's murderer to justice, let the police can't link all these look
alike criminals spider-man does capture with the man who did kill
peters uncle. After a while he just stops doing this, with no reason!
And there is still about an hour left, so what are we going to do now?
How about introduce that main villain you've been promising us? The
Lizard is horribly written in every scene he's in. Why does he go to so
much trouble to knock cars off of a bridge just to tell one guy (who is
never seen afterwords) that their vaccine isn't ready yet? Because we
needed another action scene. After that they bring up that the daily
bugle wants pictures of the lizard, a point that doesn't amount to
anything, except the lizard finding out who spider-man is. For someone
as smart as Peter Parker has been set up to be it was really stupid for
him to put his name on the camera he was using to take pictures of the
lizard.The climax doesn't work for 2 reasons. The first being this is the same
climax we've seen in about four other superhero movies. The second one
being there are no stakes. Only half of Manhattan would be infected 8
minutes after the lizard started his chemical missile, decreasing the
people at risk greatly. Also THERE'S A CURE FOR THIS!! You know, the
thing Gwen has been working on for the past 6 minutes? Whoever gets
infected can just get the cure shot into them afterwords, and as of
right now there are only 10 people infected, so why waster your time
trying to put the cure into the missile that will stretch half of
Manhattan and only effect 10 people?! Gwen Stacy's dad dies and tells Peter to leave Gwen out of this, and
proceeds to still date Gwen. What a great way to respect someone who
died protecting people! Don't watch this movie, don't waste your time
with this movie, even Spiderman 3 was better than this, so just watch
the Sam Raimi trilogy, at least those movies had effort put into them.
