9
Extremely funny film about grief, anger, revenge and violence

It seemed that the pregnant police detective Marge Gunderson from
'Fargo' would forever be the most memorable character of Frances
McDormand's acting career. But now I'm not so sure. Mildred Hayes, the
heroine from 'Three Billboards', is a serious contender. This might
well be her best performance ever.The part of Mildred Hayes was written with McDormand in mind. Hayes is
a divorced single mother, living with her son on the outskirts of a
small, remote town. She had a daughter too, but the girl was raped and
killed on a quiet mountain road not far from home. Frustrated by the
lack of progress of the investigation, Hayes decides to rent three
dilapidated billboards, publicly accusing the local police chief of
incompetence. By doing so, she attracts the attention of the media,
angers almost the entire town and causes a succession of increasingly
violent actions.Although the film is about grief, anger, revenge and violence, it is
extremely funny. Above all because of Hayes' stubborn character and her
ability to verbally humiliate people by her extremely sharp tongue. The
monologue she delivers when a priest visits her house to tell her she
has gone too far, is priceless.Apart from McDormand's performance, the screenplay is another great
feature of this film. The story is full of unexpected twists, gradually
shifting the positions of the main characters towards each other. None
of the characters are one-dimensional: they all reveal surprising parts
of their personalities as the story moves forward.And then there is the overall, almost Coen-esque atmosphere of a small
town full of colourful characters. There is a racist cop, a friendly
midget, a smart advertising guy and a pretty girl who is so dumb she
doesn't know the difference between polo and polio.It is hard to mention something negative about this film. 'Three
Billboards' is, from start to finish, a great movie. I can't imagine
anyone not enjoying it.
