2
He had it, then he let it go !

The first few minutes were great - why didn't Ford just keep going? He
could have made a totally absurdist/surrealist film that might have
worked! There were hints of such a film here and there - the guy
sitting on the toilet outdoors, the ridiculous dress that looked like
the main component was electrical tape, etc. If you want to "challenge"
the audience, that would be one way to do it. As it stands, I don't
know what he was trying to accomplish here.Another film that featured a novel being read is the little-known piece
of soft-core Eurotrash called "Honey"/"Miele di donna" (1981), and
while that didn't work either, one could easily figure out how it would
have been a lot better. There were also bits and pieces that did work
or at least were satisfying on some level. By contrast, I don't want to
think about "Nocturnal Animals" any more - in fact, I was bored while I
was watching it! The only thing one could do here, in my opinion, is to
go into total absurdism - just present one bizarre scene after another,
in a Felliniesque way.The reason why this film fails so badly is because it's clear that the
Amy Adams character feels so deeply about the story she is reading is
because she pictures her ex-lover as the main character. Now that
certainly makes sense for her, but not for the audience, leading to
boredom (because we think of the novel as simply fiction in this
context) and in some cases outright comedy (the novel is sort of like
"Dirty Harry"/"Death Wish" but with an unhappy ending, so it's not
exactly special in any significant way). So we are left with a woman
who "has it all" but decides that being among the "1" leaves something
to be desired. Perhaps the next Ford film can be about Americans who
don't have health insurance, if the new President gets his wish - at
least I could feel sympathy for those people, even those who stupidly
voted against their own self-interests. And the glowing reviews for this remind me to never trust "professional
reviewers." Remember "Eyes Wide Shut?" Remember the glowing reviews for
that one? That was worse than this film! And what about Woody Allen's
recent films? We are living in "world turned upside down" times, with
more people believing "fake facts" than obviously real ones, it seems
(and opera singers who can't sing their roles, "reality TV" shows that
clearly don't reflect reality, etc.). And that is when absurdism is
needed most. Tom, call me if you want some help with your next film.
You don't have to pay me or give me credit - I just want to see one
director do something that speaks to the times. I think you are someone
who can do that, but you appear to be too concerned about impressing
the "special people."
