3
More Bumps Than Grinds

(Rating: ☆ ½ out of 4)This film is not recommended.In brief: The filmmakers can adjust their junk the best they can, but
junk is still junk, no matter the size.GRADE: C-Life is filled with irony. While driving home after seeing the stud
dud, Magic Mike XXL, the radio station began playing You Gotta Have a
Gimmick from Gypsy, that classic show- tune about strippers. Fate?
Coincidence? Bad luck? Whatever, it struck me as a sign of the times.
The gimmick was there: The bodies are toned and well oiled. Their moves
well choreographed and fluid. Sex is for sale once again in this
sequel. Only this time around, the sleaze is on slow-boil and the meat
has been tenderized for consumption. The sordidness of male strippers
is on the back burner as this film version celebrates the legitimacy of
male dancers as a serious art form. Really? This is pure (or impure)
fantasy, totally devoid of any reality. With all of its come-ons and
dirty dancing (and no frontal nudity), the film never satisfies its
intended audience.Magic Mike XXL is not a serious expose about the sex business as its
predecessor purported to be. The first installment tried to show the
dirty side of the sex-for-sale business, with its sleazy show biz world
on display. Not so here. This sequel is a simple dance movie with lots
of sex thrown in. It's more interested in all the right moves, but
there's very little reality, plot, or logic. This version has become a
road movie as Mike (Channing Tatum) and his buddies, known as the Kings
of Tampa, deciding to relive their glory days by putting on one last
show, an encore performance to go out in style at a stripper convention
in Myrtle Beach.Dare I say, directed (and I am using the term very loosely) by Gregory
Jacobs and written (even more loosely) by Reid Carolin, Magic Mike XXL
is silly and naughty fun, especially made for repressed gays or horny
females looking for the cheapest of thrills. The film just may be
perfect for bachelorette parties too, but as a movie-going experience,
it's limp.The non-direction is the main reason for this erectile dysfunction of a
movie. The film lacks any subtlety or good taste with its groping and
in-your-crotch shots. The film's salaciousness overpowers any fun. But
the film does treat both sexes with equal disdain: men are sexual
objects and women are sex crazed nymphs. What a piece of work is man!The screenplay is an absolute mess. The dialog has an improvisational
vibe that is incomprehensible most of the times and stilted the rest of
the times. It wants to impress with hip rap, gangster swagger, and
non-stop f-bombs, as if to say, "I'm cool", but it all comes across as
just plain silly and labored. The story spends too much time meeting
various characters that never amount to much. Scenes need judicious
cutting and go on endlessly (a visit to a black private club, a meeting
with some older repressed Southern ladies, a drug- filled night on the
beach).Most of the choreography (by Alison Faulk) is sexual gyrations and
simulated sexual posing, although it is hard to tell what action is
being done on stage due to the lousy editing that is too close for
comfort and rarely shows off the dance moves and some of the worst
photography to be seen in a major studio film: ugly, grainy, out of
focus and usually shot in a dinghy yellow-brown hue. Surprisingly,
Steven Soderbergh mishandled both duties.The cast is uneven. Except for Mr. Tatum, who really can dance, Matt
Bomer who tries to develop his ill-gotten pretty boy role, and the
charismatic Joe Manganiello who truly looks the part, the others boy
toys just mill around bonding and getting high or drunk. The most
uncomfortable of the lot seems to be Kevin Nash as Tarzan who plays his
role more Neanderthal than human. Also adding little to the film except
for a winning smile and nice set of abs are Adam Rodriguez as Tito and
comedian Gabriel Iglesias in the role as an unfunny stooge named
Tobias. However the strangest part of the film is a tawdry cameo by
Michael Strahan (of sports and talk show fame). His contribution, a
graphic lap dance with an obese woman, is an embarrassment of bad taste
that sets back women rights and questions the real motives of the
filmmakers and this television personality's dubious career choices.
Adding to this debacle are the wasted talents of Addie MacDowell,
Elizabeth Banks, Amber Heard, and Jada Pinkett Smith. The dance showdown at the stripper convention peters out really fast
(pardon the pun) with no real climax (again, my apologies) as the film
follows its predictable conclusion. But there are some dance sequences
that do work quite effectively: Channing's all too short scene in his
"body" shop, an amusing segment with Mr. Manganiello in a convenience
store, and the final dance-off involving mirror images of Channing and
Stephen "tWitch" Boss (underused) that become an R-rated version of a
So You Think You Can Dance routine. (It makes sense since the
choreographer and dancer worked on that television show.)As that clever song from Gypsy so aptly states: "If you wanna grind it,
Wait till you refine it." Magic Mike XXL hits more than its share of
bumps than grinds, with no refinement in sight. Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.comANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com
