4
No Need to Recall

I was completely exhausted after seeing this film. If you like chase
scenes and a lot of action, then this is the film for you. I think that
people who have seen the original Schwarzenegger version will not be
too thrilled with this film, me included. In the original film there
were more mind games while this film is diluted with action sequences.
I am not saying that the action parts were not good, there was just too
many of them. I have to say that the futuristic look of the United
Federation of Britain and The Colony (Australia) was pretty cool;
although there were times that I thought that I was watching a video
game. Also, the concept that you could travel between the two locations
(which are on opposite sides of the earth) in roughly 17 minutes in a
tube called "The Fall" was utterly ridiculous. I can't even imagine how
fast that thing would have to travel to do what it does. Colin Farrell
(Douglas Quaid/Hauser) was not all that engaging. This is not
necessarily his fault because the dialog was pretty bland and boring.
By the end of the film I really did not care what happened to him, I
just wanted it to be over. Kate Beckinsale (Lori Quaid) and Jessica
Biel (Melina) were formidable as two butt-kicking adversaries, although
I have to say that Kate's character kind of reminded me of the female
terminator. She was relentless in trying to track down Hauser. I am
always happy to see a woman cast as a tough, larger than life super
human. Bokeem Woodbine (Harry) was convincing enough as the best
friend, but his dialog was no better than Colin's. I do not think that
the film was all bad, but about an hour or so into the film I was
wishing that I was back at ReKall. You are definitely going to need an
energy drink after you watch this one because you will not be energized
after seeing it; you will be worn out. Len Wiseman was definitely not a
wise man for trying to redo this film. He should stick with the
Underworld series and call it a day. This film really makes me long for
Mars and the cheesy special effects in the original. I am giving this
film a very weak amber light only because the action scenes were so
well done.
