8
"I love you, too!'

A.K.A. Harmony Korine's SMALL CHANGE(?) Or a slice of Italian
neo-realism if nearly everyone was unsympathetic. Or maybe a
continuation of what Arnold was doing with American HONEY, a look at
those who are white and poor and with nothing better to do than be
walking, screaming examples of, frankly, why abortion should remain not
simply legal but readily available if needed. Baker never passes
judgment for a nano-second on anyone here - he probably realizes his
audience may do that for themselves - and it creates a disturbing and
yet extremely lively cinematic experience.This wouldn't be the same as a book or a play or an album - this is
something that needs an active stedi/hand-held camera that can give us
bright primary colors and on people at this "Magic Kingdom" motel, in
particular this very young mother Halley, played by Bria Vinaite in her
screen debut, and her innocent-and-bratty daughter Moonee, who are for
the most part non-professional actors brought on to be as natural as
they want to be - and Baker knows this intuitively. His skill as a
filmmaker is giving us nothing but behavior; there are events that
happen and do escalate to a climax (something that, frankly, I imagine
a lot of people watching this will think it has to lead up to, or is
one distinct possibility for where this may lead to), but because we
are simply seeing these human beings up there on the screen doing
things and acting in this way or that, getting into, err, "shenanigans"
at the least and criminal acts at worst (and that's not uncommon), it
adds to the impact.A lessor filmmaker might throw on a "lesson" of some kind, or make the
ending a little more syrupy with the acting and music and less of an
uncertain beat. Here, Baker is totally confident with his players, and
knows Dafoe can act with all of them like it's anything else; why
should playing off of them be any different than the major stars he's
been acting off of throughout his career? His character, by the way, is
perfect as far as nailing this sometimes affable but also take-no-s***
blue collar guy who lives in this life as a manager, maybe against his
better judgment but, hey, it's a job (I've been at jobs where I've seen
this exact guy, and he and Baker totally get it).It helps too that he's there simply for the fact that everyone else -
the "adults" who are often terribly irresponsible, but it's in their
nature so, so it goes, and the children who have been raised to
precisely *not* be raised to do what they do - because he's... well,
not a moral center, exactly, but someone needs to be there to divert
the occasional old child molester or to tell the eccentric lady to
cover up her boobs when sunning by the pool. It's a massive, towering
performance where, let's put it this way, he makes himself as natural
and loose and playful and WHAT ARE YOU DOING! as everyone else.A part of me thinks I should see this again sometime soon, to take in
all of these episodes that Baker lays out, all of these actions taking
place over a hot and sticky and beautiful and dangerous summer in
Florida. At the same time it is a sharp rebuke to the American dream,
as sharp and poignant and dirty as one can experience in the cinema
this year. I think my reasoning for wanting to see it is to think: what
does Baker want his audience to take away from this tale of children
running wild and parents who are at best trying to get by (one parent
*does* work as a waitress) and at worst are doing everything wrong for
their kids? I think back to Harmony Korine because of things like Kids
or Gummo, where the intention is to throw us into a specific (yet very
familiar) part of America, where it's a combination of no education and
no responsibility and no respect and yet... they're human beings, so
how does one go for empathy for them? It's not about connecting with
them, or... is it? I know I found The Florida Project thrilling,
experimental, daring in how it doesn't LIE about these people, which
may be all we can ask for, and it's directed and performed with total
confidence. It's a beautifully made slice of rancid life.(PS: I'm still not sure I'm totally sold on the very end, where two
characters (spoiler?) finally do visit the Magic Kingdom in the
corporate/dream-like sense in Orlando, Florida - I do get the point of
it, I get it, but it didn't satisfy me after all of the hardcore
realism of what came before, not to mention how it shifts jarringly in
the technical sense from crisp 35mm to iPhones) 8.5/10
