8
A colorless life, but a vibrant tale

"The Giver" from the movies is certainly different from the original
text, yet one can't be disappointed because it remains faithful to many
of its elements. Looking at the incredible work done by the designers,
one has to admit that this is a fairly accurate representation of what
a sterile, safe, and totalitarian society probably would like in the
future. The general population follows the rules automatically, with
minor exceptions, and the illustrious leaders make sure their presence
is respected and understood. People appear to be content.As usual, some people might wonder how some very substantial parts of
the novel are dealt with in a very rushed manner when so much care was
given to bringing the book to life, and this includes acting by most of
the seasoned actors. Streep should be proud that her elder role can
join her best work, and Bridges was born to play the unhappy title
character.A much older Jonas is now the official receiver of memories in this
society, and he's the hope that can restore stability to this utopia.
It looks like the previous candidate wasn't able to handle the demands
of the assignment. This is a crucial role in the book and relegated to
a few minutes here, and mercifully so because it's played by a
non-actor and couldn't probably hurt the movie.The Giver and Jonas meet to perform their expected duties. Here is
where one can see that the Giver has specific plans. Somehow the lead
Elder suspects this but allows the plan to go on. There's a tacit
understanding of what is needed in the society, and in a parallel way,
the Elder and the Giver have parted ways, though it looks like they
were either very close or related in the past.Whereas the book allows you to meditate about what's happening to Jonas
and his transition into "adulthood" is more traumatic because of what
he discovers through the Giver's intervention, here the older Jonas
still suffers through the sudden trauma of being exposed to the dark
periods of man's history, it doesn't quite hit us with the pain of a 12
year old that suddenly has his beliefs shattered when he discovers the
truth behind his perfect world and family.There are remarkable improvements as the world is graphically depicted
so we can see how technology serves many purposes, among them the
comfort, safety and protection of its inhabitants. However, it is very
clear that the reins are tight, and this requires a special forces that
spies on every aspect of its people. It's chilling to see when files
are pulled how there's absolutely no privacy for anyone here.The casting is very good, giving us a coldly efficient Holmes, playing
an official of some kind who fears that her family and her world are
destroyed by chaos. Her husband is even more interesting because he's
the softer of the two, but what truly astounds us is how he's unable to
really bond with anything. He knows the expressions he's supposed to
use, but they're robotic deliveries, and this is horrific to see when
he deals with the problem of having to release one of the twins during
his daily job.People might be either very pleased with the last scenes in the film
when we see Jonas try to escape from his world to save himself,
Gabriel, and eventually the rest of the world. The film makes perfectly
clear that he somehow achieves his goal, but just like the book, there
is a doubt that this is all wishful thinking or a dream because. Here
we are next to the idyllic dream of his, a place where love, family,
and warmth coexist peacefully, or don't they?
