7
Zombies on a train!? Boss!

We're leaving (leaving) on that Zombie Train to Busan (leaving on the
undead train).Use to seeing Korean horror films about ghost, but Zombies!? This was
refreshing.So this neglectful dad tries to make amends with his daughter by riding
with her on the train (which she wanted to go by herself) to take her
back to his ex-wife. Lucky for both of them as a zombie outbreak
happens while their on the train. Now, their only hope for survival is
to make it to the Busan stop.You really can't go wrong with a Zombie movie. It's rare that I've have
seen one that I did not like. Train to Busan is definitely a good one
too. Its filled with interesting characters. Other than the father
daughter team, the train is also occupied by a pregnant women and her
Macho and humorous husband, a school girl and her baseball playing
boyfriend and some homeless wonderer who saw the outbreak first hand,
just to name a few. The social commentary speaks on what you are made of as an individual
and as a society with the best and the worse coming out of everyone
during this crisis.I loved how relentless and aggressive the Zombies were. More like 28
days later than Romero. The special effects do get a little cartoony
with zombies that seem to come form nowhere piling over one another
like poring cereal into a bowl or something, but it does give you that
man, these guys are screwed feel. Train to Busan focus on the idea that
the walking dead sense you through sight and sound. If they can not see
you or hear you they have no way of knowing your living flesh is a foot
away from their hunger. It made for some cleaver obstacles when a group
of passengers have to maneuver through train cars filled with zombie
passengers (Sounds like the next game in the Resident Evil franchise).Also found it interesting that no zombies were shot in this picture. I
don't know how Korean gun control laws work, but I can assume it's
strict enough that the story would make no sense if someone on the
train just happen to have one for zombie killing (unlike an American
movie in which the unborn child having a gun would be fine so long as
it moved along the story). Definitely a rarity in a Zombie picture and
it worked.It's Action packed, it's humorless, with incredible looking zombies and
a cast of characters so lively you give a crap what happens to them in
the end. http://cinemagardens.com/
