5
A Good Pairing Hampered By Weak Script

I think one either likes this movie quite well or feels like it was a
much larger opportunity missed. For this viewer it was the latter. As
the movie began I felt it had promise especially because Russell Crowe
was likable slug Nick Nolte type and I liked his character. The film
has a definite film noir nod, but it's a late 70's period buddy crime
flick to be more precise. It does try to inject continuous comedy, but
none of it is knee-slapping funny as it's more of a low-key, fairly
constant, comedy. The story is pretty lame which is the main (only) problem. A young
woman, Amelia Kuttner, whose mother is the head of the justice
department (Kim Bassinger playing Judith Kuttner) seeks to reveal her
mom is corrupt in letting the Big 3 auto makers off the hook for
pollution. Think that doesn't sound stupid, well the vehicle to reveal
all this malfeasance is an "art house porn" flick staring the daughter.
The inane reason for this was to shame the mother and get the maximum
exposure only a porn movie could get? This is all while the porn
industry in LA starts having mysterious deaths, including the top star,
the top director, and this art house porn ,wanna be, director, With the
last one the Amelia Kuttner film aimed at her mother's corruption goes
missing. This is, basically, the mystery our two needy private eyes
must unravel: find Amelia and the film. Oh, and stay alive since death
seems to swirl around lately. Speaking of the twosome, I also like Ryan Gosling's acting and the
character he plays. I found the young lady playing his daughter quite
talented in her role. However, I do still get a bit uncomfortable
seeing an impressionable youth in the middle of quite a bit of
depravity being depicted. Since her dad (Gosling) is a bit of drunk she
actually looks more after him than he does her. So I guess it serves
that purpose, but I'm still a bit uncomfortable.Well, this is, in my opinion, a weak buddy movie from a director who is
known to be capable of better. Maybe he did as much as he could given
the story since - as stated earlier: the story is weak. A viewer could
do worse for an evening's entertainment. Make sure your expectations
aren't too high and the film is still watchable. I know because I
appropriately lowered mine and kept watching. It is a good pairing of
two quite different actors, also at very different points in their
careers, allowing them to create two interesting disparate fun
characters. I just felt the story did the characters potential more of
a disservice than a benefit. This pairing could have yielded much
better given the right script. One last note to casting director,
though both Kim Bassinger and Matt Bomer have a kind of star power, she
is plain wrong, plus terrible, here and he is way too opposite the type
of a hit man.
