9
Surprising - the best in bad taste

We have had a few fairly unremarkable adaptations of Scottish novelist
Irvine Welsh's books, supporting the notion that with the one exception
of Danny Boyle's phenomenal 'Trainspotting', his material remains
pretty much impossible to put on the screen. Indeed, 'Trainspotting'
itself was not a direct adaption as such, but rather an extrapolation
of bits and pieces of it to make a cohesive narrative. In the Welsh
lore, 'Filth' is put up there as one of the most difficult, and so it
is with great surprise that Jon Baird's take on the book is not only a
good piece of work, but also perhaps one of the most accomplished films
of 2013! Our protagonist, as is so often the case with Welsh, is not a person we
would choose to meet. Detective Sargent Bruce Robertson is
mean-spirited, racist, sexist, aggressive, vindictive, with a
psychiatric disorder and a bitter past that won't let him rest, which
he seems most happy to appease with a regular cocktail of drink,
cocaine and sexual debauchery behind his colleagues' and family's back.
Manipulative and out for himself, Bruce has a plan to appear to be
solving the case of a murdered local resident, whilst playing all his
colleagues off one another with a view to clearing an easy path for his
own promotion to Chief Detective.There are plenty of treats strewn through 'Filth', little cameos,
smart, snappy dialogue, great jokes and wonderful performances from the
likes of the ever versatile Jim Broadbent and Eddie Marsan. A subtle,
schizophrenic soundtrack underscores so well the dark, cesspit nature
of the journey the character is on, it raises the question, again, as
to whether Clint Mansell will ever do wrong? The whole thing is shot
with a seemingly intentional recklessness; an abandonment of sharp
editing and an embrace of a sloppy, rough-around-the edges, almost
unfocused approach make a film that feels as disgusting as the vomit
spewing from character's mouths, both figuratively and, at times,
literally! The star here, however, is James MacEvoy. There has been much said
about his performance being an Oscar courting one; whilst there is no
guarantee of that, I am confident in saying this is a career-best from
him, and this cannot be overstated. Welsh has said he thinks MacEvoy is
"better than De Niro in Taxi Driver", and whilst I do not know if I
agree with that, we can certainly understand the comparison. MacEvoy is
not a man one might immediately cast in this role, and so it makes it
all the more impressive when we watch a performance that simultaneously
keeps us at a distance and pulls us close; the actor manages to be
completely vile, and yet convince us with an equal conviction that he
is a man with a buried and forgotten heart that used to pump warmth; I
have not seen this level of complexity so well delivered since Peter
Mullan in 'Tyrannosaur'. Scabrous, nasty, cold and angry, yet obviously
vulnerable and lost, this is a perfectly balanced, well-rounded
performance, and MacEvoy is perhaps most impressive when he is being
everything at once! In one such scene, he says, "I used to be good at
this job," which could well sum up Robertson's rather sad arc. Whatever
your final take on him, we get a complete human being, and not one we
ever feel the desire to condemn, despite all his awfulness.In the face of common opinion that it simply wouldn't work, and after
years of development, 'Filth' turns out to be a near masterpiece, whose
recognition as such is only made less likely by the inevitable
comparison with 'Trainspotting'. It is a ballsy adaption of a hugely
admired novel, as unpredictable as its central character and charged
with the vitriolic energy of the author's writing. A well balanced
juggling act of tones; in lesser hands this would have been a mess! It
is not always a pleasant watch, but like the central character, it
finds its way to a strange, engaging and even rather emotional
resolution. Whilst there is likely to be a good forty percent of casual
viewers who are left completely cold, the remaining will see a
successful, proudly Scottish film that is by turns dark, shocking,
comical and moving, which also goes out on an incredibly catchy and
surprisingly fitting 70's hit! 'Filth' is the film we would hail as the Irvive Welsh-penned grenade of
British cinema, if only Danny Boyle had not got there first.
