1
The trailer was terrifying; the movie is terrible

I am so ticked off about wasting over two hours watching this STUPID
film that I am writing this angry review at 5:00 in the morning.(SHORT REVIEW: The film is so disjointed and illogical that you are
simply frustrated at the end, not scared. First time I've ever seen the
overall arching storyline conclude before the sub-stories conclude,
it's that non-sensical!!)The trailer got me really hyped up for this film, as did a solid 80%
rating on RT. Frankly, I don't know what is wrong is the critics to
give this piece of **** any credibility.The premise starts off intriguing enough; it's "wraparound story" of a
bunch of petty criminals break into a creepy house with a dead guy in
it to steal a certain VHS tape (they don't know which one). So they
start viewing some of the tapes and we, the audience, are treated to a
front- row show.Some of these tapes viewed are good; my favourite is the last one,
10/31/98, where cool paranormal stuff happens and there's a predictable
but satisfying twist. I would be happy if this was a standalone film.Others, like SECOND HONEYMOON, are awful because it's just violent, not
scary. When the camera turns on and starts recording in the middle of
the night, it's a shock when you realize that the one recording is
neither of the couple. But then this mysterious creep pulls out a
switchblade, and subsequently jacks $100 from a wallet, all on camera.
What the ****?? That's not scary at all. Someone recording themselves
doing a break & enter does not classify as "horror".Anyway, as a viewer you forgive these stupid plot lines because you
keep anticipating that the "wraparound story" will eventually conclude,
with something connecting these completely unrelated stories. Joke's on
you, sucker!The conclusion of the wraparound story — which builds itself up to
something very creepy — is disappointing and not scary (***SPOILER
AGAIN*** surprise! Dead guy ain't dead...is he a zombie? Demon? No
idea, he doesn't actually do anything scary). And WORST OF ALL...it
ISN'T the end of the film!!!Inexplicably, a final tape (10/31/98) is played AFTER that wraparound
story concludes. It's insulting to the audience how stupid this is, and
the only redeeming quality is that 10/31/98 is a decent story.If the film was presented properly as a collection of horror shorts
(with proper title cards and all), then it would be a little better.
But it's not, and worse, there is an overall arc that is supposed to
connect everything together to make you think "OHHH! That's why! Man,
that's scary!!" but does not.Just awful.Yes, there are a good number of hide-behind-your-buddy scary moments,
but there is NOTHING more disappointing than a horror movie that leaves
you frustrated and disappointed enough to write a 1-star review on IMDb
in the middle of the night.
