3
Convoluted, tiresome, and wholly dull.

Why am I subjecting myself to this anymore? If you have seen Taken 2,
you know exactly why this rhetorical question is necessary to question
my sanity. If you thought Taken 2 could not be beaten in terms of
stupidity, laughable dialogue, totally unbelievable (in the literal
sense of the word) and ridiculous characters, and yes, unfortunately,
forgettable action, then think again! Taken 3 takes it up a notch,
gives you even more of the aforementioned features, and gets you to
believe that getting pregnant when you're married is no longer a thing
to celebrate but to fear. Oh yeah, this movie went there...The title is extremely misleading. It should not have been named Taken
3, as there is no abduction (so it should have been more aptly titled
Untaken 3). There are simply a bunch of boring car chases, gun
shootouts, and tiresome combat sequences. You have seen it all before
in bigger and better movies. If you are familiar with the characters
from either the first or second movie, there are no new faces of any
consequence this time around. The convoluted and entirely uninspired
plot is supposed to be based on Bryan Mills' (Liam Neeson) attempts to
find the ones responsible for his wife's murder (which police were made
to believe he perpetrated), yet somehow the movie has more to do with
his countless run-ins with the police - who I must say are the worst
set of law enforcers I have ever seen on film - and the ensuing chase
sequences, and, of course, as always, Mills ends up escaping them.
There is one such altercation that occurs in the movie which only
happens because Mills wanted to meet his daughter, tell her he loved
her, and to repeat the same words he had mentioned to her earlier in
the movie. Thud! This movie might not have you glued to your screens on
account of its heart-pounding action, but it just might get you rolling
on the floor laughing at its hysterical storyline - if you are into
that sort of thing.It is all too apparent that Liam Neeson has had enough with this
franchise. It must be a huge relief to him to know that the producers
will not be extending another invitation to him for Taken 4, as this
was a box office bomb. Along with the wishes of audiences worldwide, he
must be hoping to soon find greener pastures and not let this debacle
be the end of his reign as the supreme Hollywood action star of the
last five or so years. For all my love of this guy, I am beginning to
think it might be better for him to seek different roles other than
action figures, as many have started to tire of seeing him on screen as
a fighting man. I would love to see him do more in the lines of
Schindler's List. He has some seriously good acting chops, and he
should not squander them on the likes of Taken 3. There is nothing else left to say about Untaken 3. Do give it a miss,
regardless of whether or not you are an action movie fan. If you are
able to find even a smidgen of entertainment from this contraption then
I envy you. I would not be surprised if you could watch a movie about
snails crawling and somehow be entertained. Alas, for me, I will choose
my action movies more carefully from here on out.
