1
Steven Spielberg's is a bad director... Oh, Heaven Forbid!!

Spielberg will fill you with more of the dorky, intelligence-insulting,
spineless pretentiousness in this movie, which btw he excels at.
Instead of being disgusted by thoughtless behavior, characters are
constantly caught up in admiration of it. Instead of avoiding
self-absorbed, arrogant, belittling, self-diluted, self-righteous
mannerisms from them, the audience is forced deep into it, knowing that
no one in a Spielberg movie will ever have the good sense to call it
out.Oh, but there are interruptions in the movie. Becoming a
one-trick-pony, and learning that characters constantly interrupting
each other (to cover up major plot details), is an improvement from
being a director who doesn't have any connection to reality whatsoever.
Yes, I guess he learned that it is far easier to excuse your mess to a
loyal audience by leading them into it in a way where they may second
guess their own intelligence and hope they conclude they were just 'too
stupid to get it,' than to actually do the work of thinking about what
should be the right way to film this stuff.There are too many characters that do lazy-lipped complaining to
Lincoln about something they disagree about him doing, and when they
can't convince Lincoln that he's wrong, the same* annoying character
goes down to the next man in line and complains to him* why what
Lincoln says SHOULD be done! Could you get any more repulsive,
please?... There are scenes where people are playing up their own
helplessness when they obviously have no reason to feel helpless in the
first place. This is done mostly as a pathetic attempt to add drama or
at comedy to a movie where there is none. (Just because a guy chooses
to let the President's son playing with a goat in the white house
bother him, and chooses to try to deal with bystanders in his apparent
lack of control about it, doesn't mean that we would make such a
moronic decision about how to go about it. But, because it's assumed
that we, the audience, are also spineless drama-queens like this guy,
then we must also be thoughtless fools susceptible to forced and
meaningless pretensions, and see this as comedy! But because the
director is a hack, he knows that this scene is not funny or even
amusing, so he tries to trick you by making you watch it before you
even know what's going on; He slips it in the start of a scene, just
following a sudden cut, so we have to follow this guy around doing this
stupid thing before we even know what's happening.)I could go on, but why bother?... Oh yeah, because I'm being harassed
by shameless moochers in the form of prolific, know-it-all,
professional critics about "Spielberg's Rousing Brilliance," and people
farting about it being 'a five-star experience that touched their lives
forever,' even before the damn trailers came out. Okay, that's a good
reason. I'll go on: A guy who is needed to pass the Amendment is scared and intimidated for
no reason at all. The writers seem to know this because they actually
have to have him yell "I would vote for it, but I ain't got no
courage!" for the audience. This is really helpful, because if he never
said this, we would never have any reason to know why he's not voting
for the bill! 'Let's see, an opposing Rep. walks up to him and
questions him about it, swinging broad shoulders. He responds with a
sissy face. ...I guess in the land of Spielberg's spineless
pretentiousness, this is enough to pass for intimidation!'Hey, you want a new complaint? :) ...When Lincoln is returning home
from a theater play (where Spielberg makes you think he is about to be
shot so intensely that you forget what the scene was really about.
Uh... why?!?), The Lincolns' black female servant thanks him for the
bill he created to free all slaves. She then asks him if he really
wants them in the country. He gives her a candid response about how he
doesn't really know her yet, to which she then reveals that her son
died in the War and that this should be enough for him to know who she
is. There is a heavy silence, as she walks away and leaves him there to
contemplate, that relieved me when it was cut away from (...because
there weren't any 20 minute long sweeping farting noises from trumpets
where there very easily could've been)! My point is this: She knows he
risked career and reputation at greatest height to pass this bill
because it's already established in the beginning that she sees him and
works for him from day to day in the White House. So when she asks, 'Do
you really want us here?,' Lincoln should've just said, 'Isn't that
kind of a stupid question...? Nah, I'm going behind the backs of the
will of the people at the height of my popularity, continuing to risk
breaking legislative law, and extending the civil slaughter trying to
keep Southern diplomats seceded from voting, all to free blacks from
slavery because... oh, I don't know - I just love living on the edge of
ruining myself!' But, because he gave some stupid answer to her stupid
question, we have to sit through more totally unnecessary pretentious
behavior, this time from her, about how she is already a good enough
American. Poor set-up and little pay-off. All for worthless
pseudo-dramatics.Just look how many shamefully unpatriotic (and amateur-like) flaws this
site, IMDb.com, has listed for this film. You see, Steven Spielberg's
ego may have gotten so big that he feels anything he spits out will be
called a masterpiece. He couldn't even make the Capitol Building look
believable despite having made realistic dinosaurs when he had less
money. He used the California State Building. Same State that Hollywood
is in to save money on gas mileage...?!?
