1
Moral of the Story: Marry for Money

Beauty and the Beast is about a deposed slave-owning aristocrat who
imprisons a farm girl. She undergoes Stockholm Syndrome, identifying
with her captor, then proceeds to betray her village's uprising and
reinstates the slave-owning prince to power by offering her hand in
marriage.Furthermore, Belle's contempt for the provincial farming community and
their lack of refinement stems from vague memories she has of a more
cultured upbringing in Paris. When she later is shown a vision of her
childhood house and remarks "it's so small," this was a moment where
she could put it all together. The lack of refinement in the rural areas was due to brutal
exploitation which forced unmarried women to beg in the streets. It is
likely that the community's surplus resources were taken by aristocrats
like the Beast, and used to fund his opulent palace. Thus, depriving
the farming community of leisure time and resources for education and
arts, which would have made them more sophisticated, meeting Belle's
approval.It is also possible that Gaston's intense desire to marry, which caused
his nefarious plot, may be linked to levée en masse, a policy that
required conscription for all unmarried French men between 18 and 25.
So his patriarchal demands were a direct result of state policy to
benefit the aristocracy by providing soldiers to sacrifice their lives
in land disputes between inbred blue blood cousins.Then, this exploitation provided a concentration of wealth and power in
the city, which created the market for her father to pursue creative
employment rather than farm work. This also forced them into slums,
where squalor and poor public health systems lead to the spread of
plague, which is met with cold indifference by the doctor, indicating
lack of public health care as a source of Belle's childhood trauma. All of this exploitation and upward wealth transfer made its way back
to the remote plantation of the Beast.When confronted with this inescapable logic, what does she do? She
decides to take the easy way out and enjoy the life of luxury, waited
hand and foot by Beast's slaves, who feed her, clothe her, sing and
dance for her. A life she always felt entitled to, on part of her
feeling of superiority towards her provincial neighbors.The moral of the story is, marry for money, and ignore the suffering of
the poor. A terrible message for children.
