4
To The Invitation, I Send My Regrets

The Invitation is, in a word, irritating. It overflows with
unnecessarily jumpy flashbacks and blurred memories in an effort to
appear mysterious. The movie wants you to believe that it is
complicated and deep. But it isn't. The movie is simple and shallow.The filmmakers spend so much time stuffing our faces with distracting,
strange music and even stranger behavior of the dinner guests in an
attempt to unnerve us viewers. They want you to find the evening weird
(which it is) and confusing (which it isn't) so you will have doubts
about what will happen (you shouldn't because the answer is obvious).Here is the premise of the movie (I will write this as simplistically
as the movie presents it). Old friends who haven't seen each other in
years all arrive at a dinner party hosted by one friend and her new
husband. The night is basically a reunion except everyone is a little
uncomfortable to see each other again. So actually it's just a reunion.As the evening carries on the hosts exhibit increasingly odd behaviors,
which make the guests uncomfortable and the protagonist (a bearded,
long-haired man named Will) suspicious. The hosts are both awkwardly
happy, which the hostess explains is due to their choice to do away
with negative emotions. As if human beings can simply choose not to
experience any undesirable feelings. Her pontification is extremely
irritating to hear and extremely false.Later, the hosts show everyone a video of a 20something year old cancer
patient dying and beam about how wonderful it is, how wonderful death
is because it is the only way to truly be free."Are you guys in a cult?" One guest blurts the question that needed
asking.They are. Obviously. Of course they deny half-heartedly then attempt to
distract everyone with a bizarre new party game. I'll spare the
details, just know that it makes the guests uncomfortable.After watching this scene, most viewers probably expect the remainder
of the movie's plot to play out in a painfully predictable sequence. It
does. Once again I will spare the details since certain readers may
still want to watch this movie for some reason. Rest assured that
nothing will surprise you.I mentioned how much this movie irritated me, and I want to briefly
speak on that point once more. I will mention particulars about the
opening scene and how it connects with the remainder of the movie. Here
we go.*Minor Spoiler Alert* The film opens with a couple (Will and his
girlfriend) driving to a dinner party that neither seems particularly
excited to attend, a relatable concept for many of us. The car suddenly
hits a coyote, which serves as the first jump scare of the movie. Will
exits the vehicle to inspect the situation and eventually mercy kills
the animal with a tire iron.I am uncertain about the purpose of this scene. Maybe it was merely an
unsettling appetizer for the uncomfortable dinner party that followed.
Perhaps it was just a red herring, like much of the movie. Maybe it was
intended to introduce the cult's message that dying is the only way to
escape from pain.Maybe, but I hope not because it's a terrible parallel to the beliefs
of the cult member dinner hosts. The coyote's circumstances don't apply
at all to any of the attendees of the dinner party. The coyote
experiences excruciating pain and will die within minutes. The people
were not injured. None of them were hit by cars. None of them are sick.
They are going to live healthy and happy lives for the next 40 or 50
years. Sure, they have their struggles, but they will have plenty of
opportunities to be happy. The coyote will not.*End of Spoiler* And I'm finished. Sorry for the rant. The whole movie
caused me such irritation that I needed to vent to make myself feel
better. To avoid similar irritation of your own, I recommend watching
something else.
