1
Disjointed Mess! Shocking continuity issues make it an unbelievable yawn fest.

*** This review may contain spoilers ***So, it looked promising and so lets start with the PROS; The intro sequence all 6 minutes (including the first dive bombing)
should have continued for the whole movie - EPIC!That's it for pro's, really the rest will just make you depressed. CONS;A poorly cobbled together film without a story and achingly under-
utilized actors.The awfully executed chronology lacked any reference or worthy
explanation, exposing the glaring continuity issues and unbelievable
plot mechanics. Sure tell a few different stories, but please at least maintain
continuity WITHIN each story, it's as though the decision was made to
have all these points of view early on - yet when it came time to film
they did it over 2 days. A few extras lined up on a beach and some
borrowed planes. F*$*. we are approaching the 2020's dammit - use some
bloody good CGI as you clearly can afford it. The movie fails to portray even a 1/1000th of the actual evacuation -
there were +- 330 000 troops leaving and over 60 000 killed ( thanks
Wikipedia) yet ... Nolan fails to deliver any inkling of that sort of
magnitude. The Brits left behind 63,879 vehicles including tanks and
motorcycles + 2,472 field guns .... holy s*$(. but do we see a single
tank or gun ... maybe 5 trucks and tug boat --- woo ooh ... also the ending is Horses excrement, climaxing with some stupid
spitfire pilot who is SO worried about fuel, yet manages to fly around
and engage bombers for the WHOLE FILM right up to, and after its engine
stops ... SURE ... then it unbelievably swoops around with no engine
(they obviously just cut the sound to make it look like the engine had
stopped) and then swoops past TWICE along the beach and it is assumed
by the plot that it engages and SHOOTS DOWN an approaching Stukka dive
bomber -NO! NO! I CALL BULLSH$T MR NOLAN! So major bullsh%t climax moment out of the way, onto the meat and bones
of this cut and pasted high school conceived garbage pile.Day, morning, evening, rough seas, very calm seas - NEVER bloody mind -
just SHOOT the scene dammit! The "DAY" progresses achingly slowly and
even although we see two sunrises / sunsets / a storm and everything in
between we are meant to believe it all happens during these story
points, what LAZY film making .... I do not believe. I never much cared for this Mr Nolan chap - and now after wasting my
few dollar I feel confused for the future of film making and even more
disappointed than ever for the general intelligence of the world. Are
audiences/critics really that shallow / attention deficit that they
cannot come up with an honest review so that others may find out before
wasting time and effort? pathetic for a $150 Million budget. If i could SAVE 50k p/a i'd have to
work for 20 YEARS just to make 1/150th of the budget... and yet THIS is
the result. These people are living in a ridiculous reality paid for by
you and I>
