1
A terrible film that sends a dangerous message

The film seems to be in as much denial as a raging alcoholic and its
clearly trying to preach that drinking is bad. Yet the opening scene we
have the Denzel Washington performing a flight maneuver the red baron
would be proud of. The praise for his piloting skills comes up in the
film as regular as an internet pop-up. Just so we never forget how good
a pilot he is, even if drunk!But now here's the money shot he's a junkie and an alcoholic and he was
higher than Ozzy Osbourne when saving the plane from crashing to the
ground. But the message of the film is, drinking is bad, oh yes, drugs
are worse because if you taking them while in control of a vehicle you
might exhibited piloting skills Luke and Anakin Skywalker would be
proud of. This is kind of strange message because I thought the reason drinking
and taking drugs was made illegal while flying and driving is that it
impairs your judgment and you are more likely to cause a crash. But in
this film universe seems to be the other way round.Anyhow Denzel's character is bad for doing this, and the guilt for
saving all those lives while higher than a space cadet is too much and
he confesses. He then goes to jail but it's a Hollywood Jail where in
fact he is happy now, since he confessed. What should have happen in the film is that his drinking and drugs
caused the crashed and killed passengers. This is real life and the
brutal reality of people in responsibility of vehicles or planes while
intoxicated. But I guess this is not Hollywood enough.Did nobody in the film think it was weird logic? There's a terrible
plane crash people die while a pilot is high on vodka and cocaine, yet
the cause of the crash is 100% mechanical failure and it's the great
piloting skill that prevents further death? This film sends a dangerous message, because it sends the message the
only think Denzel's character did wrong was get caught. That his
piloting skills were in no way impacted during the crash, this is a
very bad message to send to young people. A very bad film.
