9
Great Movie

The Nice Guys is written and directed by Shane Black and stars Ryan
Gosling and Russell Crowe as two detectives who try to solve a case
regarding a missing girl and the death of a porn actress in Los Angeles
during the 70s.I'm a big Shane Black fan ever since my childhood, with Lethal Weapon
being one of my all-time favorites. After that I followed his career,
and I have to say, he is a really great writer/director. Kiss Kiss Bang
Bang is another great movie which he wrote and directed which some
might argue it brought Robert Downey Jr. back in the center of the
attention, and before the whole Marvel business started. Black is great
at writing buddy comedies with crime and mystery touches and The Nice
Guys is one of his best works to date.First of all, the two main actors, Russell Crowe and Ryan Gosling, have
an amazing on-screen chemistry. Crowe plays Jackson Healy, a
by-the-book though guy enforcer type who you call when want to have
someone taken care of. Crowe is now over 50 in real life, his age is
starting to show, but he embraces that completely in this film. He is a
little overweight and some of the action scenes he pulls might not look
that believable, but he is absolutely perfect in this role. Ryan
Gosling took a break from the more silent type roles (Drive, Place
Beyond the Bines) which were becoming a bit too much for me and instead
takes a comedic turn in this movie. He has some of the funniest lines,
he gets in the craziest situations and yet there's also a dark side to
him, having some drinking problems and at the same time trying to raise
his daughter (Angouire Rice), who is wise beyond her years.The story itself is not the most original and unique, it doesn't really
break new ground and you can solve the mystery on your own while
watching the movie. As soon as one character was introduced, I
immediately put the clues together. But that's okay, it doesn't really
need to do all those things. We were not promised some original concept
or never before seen plot, we were promised an action comedy that
offers two great characters and a very clever script.What I truly love about this movie is how simple it actually is. It's
not part of a huge franchise, it's not a CGI fest, there are no
superheroes, there are no flying cars, we just follow two guys trying
to solve a mystery. It really goes back to the 80-90s era, when we had
some great action-comedies like the Lethal Weapon franchise or Beverly
Hills Cop. It's a nice breath of fresh air with some clever dialogue,
noir elements, good action and two perfect stars in the main roles. The
Nice Guys is a nice surprise and it deserves a 9 out of 10!
