6
Such incredible potential lost in a mess of editing or lack thereof

Ironically I work for a tech company that if you really bent and
twisted could look a little like The Circle only way less evil...I
swear... The Circle seems incredibly timely and you know 30 years from
now, even as campy as it ended up being, it could be considering a
classic ahead of it's time simply because it has such a pertinent
message to our world right now. It could be this generations social
commentary. Unfortunately for this movie it is completely lost in very
poor character development, some really horrid acting and line
delivery, a weak and unedited script, a horrible use of star Tom Hanks
and forcing Emma Watson to try and hide her British accent meaning she
has not enough lines to give her character depth. Even still, for some
reason I didn't hate the film. I still found enough about it that I
liked. The idea and concept behind The Circle is very believable and
the tech they use while it seems a little outlandish is incredibly
real. If you stop and think about Facebook/Twitter/Amazon/The Cloud
things that connect the entire world, this film is not even remotely
far-fetched. I do believe Emma Watson has it in her to be a star. Fortunately for
her Beauty and The Beast and it's 1B+ take will solidify her in
Hollywood because it seems everything else she has tried falls flat. I
don't think film makers are casting her correctly. She looks through
this entire film like she is struggling with hiding her British accent.
The dialog is really bad so it hurts her performance even worse. Still
I like what they did with it, even if there wasn't enough time to
really dig into her. Tom Hanks is the driving star power and is
sorrowfully underused. Even still he comes onto screen and makes every
scene he's in worthwhile. He's perfect as a low level villain of sorts
who is more than close to real life. Ellar Coltrane might be one of the
worst performances I've ever seen. Is this guy even an actor? As
Watson's childhood best friend and sort of a focal point for Watson's
development, he delivers his lines like a terrible Grade School actor.
He is absolutely terrible and that is in addition to how bad the dialog
is. His chemistry with Watson is literally non-existent. Glenne Headly,
the late (amazing) Bill Paxton and Karen Gillan give the three best
performances in the film. Paxton who plays Watson's father riddled with
MS is fantastic! Similar to Hanks, Patton Oswalt is very underused as
Hanks' partner in The Circle. He seems almost to have had his lines
removed. And then you have John Boyega (you know the latest star of
Star Wars) in an utterly pointless bizarre role where he stands in the
back of rooms and looks broody. You would literally think they edited
out huge portions of his character making it seem weird and disjointed.I'm not sure who is responsible for ruining a film with such amazing
potential. I know that director and co-writer James Ponsoldt does not
have enough experience to handle something of this potential calibre. I
would presume that Dave Eggers original novel is much better and I feel
like it's probably a lot of editing and cooks in the kitchen that
killed this adaptation. I still liked a few performances, I loved the
message and working in the tech world for me it really was a little on
the scary side. It's worth seeing but probably forgettable but the
message behind it will likely cause it to stand the test of time.
6.5/10
