9
Disney headed in the right di-WRECK-tion!

The trailer alone, garnered much buzz for Disney's latest 3D adventure.
Seeing some of'the great video game villains of all time assembled in
one room was just too good to be true. The hype was elevated to even
greater heights given its ubiquitous presence at San Diego Comic Con.
In the back of mind I kept thinking, "THEY'RE GONNA WRECK IT!"Thankfully, the movie succeeds in creating a heartfelt tribute to the
golden era of the 80's arcade, decorated here and there with familiar
cameos that are both nostalgic and laugh out loud hilarious. The actual
video game characters and their respective worlds don't play as big a
role in the movie as I imagined. My wishful, nerdy brain hoped Ralph
would be jumping through pipes in Mushroom Kingdom, riding horseback
through Hyrule and blasting away at baddies alongside Mega Man and who
knows who else. This didn't happen, and may have to do with the price
of buying the rights to some of these iconic images. But the new world
Disney Animation Studios created is rich with surprises, and rivals
that of Monstropolis, Toy Story, and the Kingdom of Far and Far Away. Wreck-It Ralph (voiced by the incomparable John C. Reilly) is the
Donkey Kong to Fix-It Felix, Jr.'s Mario in a fictional 80's arcade
game. The game itself is believable enough to have existed during the
era. Ralph, along with other villains in various games throughout the
ages, share the same plight of feeling under-appreciated by gamers and
other citizens of the video game world. The breaking point for Ralph was the 30th Anniversary for the "Fix-it
Felix, Jr." arcade. To commemorate the event, Felix throws a party in
the penthouse of the game's high-rise apartment complex, a party that
Ralph wasn't invited to. (The DJ of this party offered another cameo I
really wasn't expecting and left me in awe of this tribute to
electronic art.) What sets Ralph apart from all the other villains is that he is
determined to actually do something about the unfortunate role of "Bad
Guy" he was programmed to assume. He intends to jump to different
arcades in order to become a hero in another game. This act of invading
a game other than your own is mysteriously referred to as "Going Turbo"
by the other inhabitants of the video game world. It's considered
taboo, especially since it runs the risk of permanent death: dying
outside your own game makes it impossible to regenerate.After a series of unfortunate events, Ralph eventually crash lands into
Sugar Rush, a cross between the worlds of Candy Land and Mario Kart.
There he befriends the adorable Vanellope (voiced by the lovely Sarah
Silverman), who like Ralph is seen as an outcast in her game. In her
case, she is considered a freak due to her tendency to glitch out. To
Vanellope, racing runs deep within her code, but the only thing
stopping her is the candy land's ruler the Candy King, who is adamant
on keeping her out of the race.Ralph's spontaneous hero's journey spells trouble for the rest of the
video game world. Due to Ralph's disappearance, the "Fix-it Felix, Jr."
game is in danger of being unplugged, leaving Felix with the hefty
responsibility of retrieving his clumsy counterpart. Ralph's brief
stint in a Halo-esque game called "Hero's Duty" is also a big nuisance
to the foxy Sgt. Calhoun (Jane Lynch). She must now track down and
exterminate a Cybug that Ralph mistakenly helped escape from the game.
If the bug goes viral, it could destroy every game in Mr. Litwak's
entire arcade for good.The video game setting offers awesome moments of creativity for the
Disney animators, from the way the characters are drawn and animated,
to the way their lives are portrayed outside of their own game. The
voice talent is also really impressive across the board. While the
movie isn't the all-out Smash Brothers brawl many were expecting, the
movie comes with loads of surprises that are sure to delight and
entertain a wide audience, gamers and non-gamers alike.The movie could not have come at a better time. People who grew up
during the era of the arcade are now starting to have families of their
own, and are very likely to laugh along with the children they bring to
the theaters. This same video game generation also witnessed the Disney
Renaissance of the early 90's: The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the
Beast, Aladdin, and the Lion King. With Wreck-It Ralph destined to be
an instant classic, following the success of the equally impressive
Tangled, we are in for a new Disney Renaissance for a whole new
generation.Note: Get there early enough for an excellent animated short, and stay
to watch the credits roll if you haven't yet satisfied your nerdy gamer
fix.
