9
An Engrossing Venture Into The Effect Of Power

Twenty-four male students out of seventy-five were selected to take on
randomly assigned roles of prisoners and guards in a mock prison
situated in the basement of the Stanford psychology building.Rarely do we see such an ensemble of up and comers really given the
chance to act. The Stanford Prison Experiment is in my opinion an
exercise in profound acting ability. It simply does not work without
the performances of its cast, it truly is a testament to their talent
that it plays out in an engrossing manner, compared to what could have
been a ridiculous one. Director Kyle Patrick Alvarez works wonders in
his constricted set that manages to captivate and fascinate the viewer.
The films aesthetic manages to encapsulate its secluded and underlying
darkness in an almost haunting fashion.Billy Crudup puts in a fantastic performance as a man who is willing to
push his experiment to the end of the line whitout regarding the
emotional well-being of his personal genie pigs. Ezra Miller and Tye
Sheridan play two of the stand out prisoners taking part in the
experiment, with Miller giving an emotionally outlandish performance
and Sheridan retaining his subtle brilliance (shown in previous films
like Mud). Thomas Mann, Johnny Simmons and Nicholas Braunsll all
contribute essential performances with each of their character being
fully realized. The stand out however, is Michael Angarano who is
absolutely phenomenal in his role of "Christopher Archer" an almost
Fletcher (Whiplash) type character who is both repulsive and
mesmerizing at the same time. I look forward to seeing his, along with
all of the other actors work in the future.Where this film stumbles is pacing, some scenes are drawn out too long
and others cut to short with a better flow could have let this films
message of the effect of power on the powerful and the powerless
conclude in a more ominous way. Also the way in which certain lead
characters reach there breaking points is not fully explored to the
extent it could be, when these characters leave the experiment it only
results in lowering fixation on the film.Overall, I did find this film to be a real standout in showcasing the
performances of its actors, its story could have been executed with a
better flow but it is nevertheless gripping throughout. Its themes are
extremely relevant today and the abuse of power is evident in our
society. It is also able to explore this theme from the other side
giving us an examination into the effect power has on the person who
receives it. This is an achievement for all involved and it is the type
film that could go so wrong but instead, with the help of a talented
director, screenwriter and spellbinding actors, it goes so right. I am
going to give the Stanford Prison Experiment an 8.8/10.
