9
P.T. Anderson makes another under appreciated masterpiece

Often in the history of film there have been remarkable gems, hailed by
few and ignored by the masses. Over time many of these gain the credit
they deserve, Citizen Kane was panned by many critics at the time and
only with the passing of time has its influence and brilliance been
generally acknowledged. P.T. Anderson's new film The Master may not be
Citizen Kane but it is certainly in the same vein. As Orson Welles
modeled Charles Foster Kane after William Randolph Hearst, Anderson's
new film focuses on another controversial historical figure, L. Ron
Hubbard. Like Welles, Anderson treats his characters with the same
mixture of examination and empathy that leaves you questioning pre-
conceptions and wondering what truly defines an individual.In post-war America Freddie Quell (played by Joaquin Phoenix) , a
former soldier with an abnormal libido and a hobby of making near toxic
alcohol, is wandering through life like an actor oblivious of his
stage. His course takes a slight detour when he wakes up aboard a ship
with Lancaster Dodd (Philip Seymour Hoffman) and his followers who make
up "The Cause", a cult-ish religion clouded in the guise of science,
philosophy and psychology. Dodd sees in Quell the opportunity to
display the power of his new methods, and in Dodd Quell sees a mentor
and hope for answers to the questions that plague all humanity.Like many of Anderson's films the pace can often be trying and the
often surreal visions expounded are certainly not for everyone's taste.
Images of swirling water are only a drop in the bucket of metaphors
Anderson buries his audience in. Like Anderson's last film, 2007's
There Will Be Blood, gorgeous imagery and an eerie score help create a
dream-like sense of bewilderment that stays with you long after the
lights go up and the popcorn is stale.Anderson's ability to craft film as art is only matched by his eye for
talent. Philip Seymour Hoffman, in his fifth collaboration with
Anderson, plays Dodd with wonderful simplicity that allows the
complexity of the character speak for itself. With subtly and reserve
Hoffman lets his character's egotism and magnetism shine through
Anderson's typically biting dialogue. Joaquin Phoenix, still recovering
from his 2010 film debacle I'm Still Here, gives a powerhouse
performance reminding us all what was so intriguing to begin with.
Somehow Phoenix makes a character who should come off as a simpleton
violent alcoholic a very empathetic and human individual. In the end he
is still not very likable, like many people in this world, but you can
nevertheless sympathize with his mortal struggle. Whether or not
Phoenix will get the Best Actor Oscar as many have discussed is still
anyone's guess, especially with the multi-Oscar winning Daniel Day
Lewis (who won his second Oscar for Anderson's There Will Be Blood) in
the competition. Rounding out the cast is Office darling Amy Adams as
Dodd's wife Peggy, who has a far more pragmatic view of the
relationship between Dodd and Quell.It is a tragedy how often brilliance is not recognized by those in its
presence. P.T. Anderson with masterpieces like Boogie Nights, Magnolia
and There Will Be Blood under his belt would surely be Oscar material,
but he is not. After the fall when Spielberg and all the other
mainstream directors release their fare Anderson's little art film will
receive little attention. He may get a nod with yet another nomination,
but the sad truth is that his work may simply be ahead of his time.
Just as his films are too "arty" for mainstream box office success the
Oscars are too mainstream for him. So maybe he won't get the award
until he's thirty years deep like Scorsese or perhaps never at all, but
perhaps that's okay. After all he is in good company, there have been
other perfectionist film makers who never won the Best Director statue,
like Orson Welles.
