8
Fun In High School

The TV series of 21 Jump Street is always remembered as one of Johnny
Depp's early performances. The concept is a bit interesting. At first
glance, this movie looks like it's just another mediocre raucous
comedy, but it turns out to be a clever one. It's quite a surprise. It
stays loyal to its roots except it added some raunchiness and slapstick
humor to the story. It's a new kind of 21 Jump Street that is much more
fun.I'm not saying it's better than the TV series though. Both are pretty
interesting but this one is definitely aiming as a comedy. The film is
just crazy stuff with crazy characters living in an absurd setting. The
original premise remains but with some buddy comedy elements, and
raunchy and slapstick humor. Surprisingly, it works better to the plot.
The humor is clever and quite hilarious. These jokes are greatly
executed by the stars. Jonah Hill is always a brilliant comedian.
Channing Tatum finally plays a none bland character. His chemistry with
Hill shines to the film. While the others, Ice Cube hams it up a little
but he can provide some laughs. Rob Riggle is just being Rob Riggle.
Dave Franco's role here kind of reminds me of his role in Fright Night
but he's pretty good with it.The direction is snappy and stylish. The action is fun but I don't
think anybody cares about that. The main point of this film is High
School and the relationship between Schmidt and Jenko. It shows how the
new high school turned their lives upside down. They can't stop playing
with their antics on their mission. There is a drama between them. Most
of it played as a joke but the heart is always there.All turns out to be pretty well in this film even with all the changes
and the absurdity. It's smart, sweet, hilarious, and fun. The fans of
the TV series may still get a surprise while they miss the none mad
Captain Jenko and the charms of the show. This film is too crazy and
absurd but in a clever way. I haven't enjoyed a comedy like this in a
while. 21 Jump Street is undeniably fun and it's probably one of the
best comedies of the year.
