8
Two actors make a good film a fantastic one

There's a moment towards the end of Rust And Bone when something awful
happens, and we are about to witness the ultimate tragedy. For that
couple of minutes, the rest of the movie becomes irrelevant; we are
just totally immersed in this act playing out. It's a brutal but
wonderful sequence and, fortunately, it's not the first time we have
such a scene in the movie. That's pretty much what Rust And Bone is: a
series of wonderfully brutal sequences.The movie deals with the relationship between two fragile individuals
from opposite ends of life. Ali (Matthias Schoenaerts) is trying to be
a better father and a better man; Stephanie (Marion Cotillard) is
trying to rebuild her shattered life after a horrific accident. Their
need for each other grows drastically, but their real lives threaten to
get in the way.As far as story lines go, this isn't anything overly special. It's the
kind of kitchen sink drama that we've seen Ken Loach and Mike Leigh do
for ages. Fragile characters, broken homes, comedy out of tragedy, it's
the usual stuff. Only difference here is that we're seeing it all play
out in France, with French people speaking French and doing French
things. But frankly, nothing is original these days; what matters more
is the execution.And what sets Rust And Bone apart from other similarly-themed movies is
the execution. Working class France is shot brilliantly, looking
gorgeous and despairing all at the same time. The special effects are
top-notch, and there is a somewhat jarring quality to the editing that
really works.But what you really need to see this film for is Cotillard and
Schoenaerts. I was trying to decide who I thought was the better actor
in the film, but it's impossible to choose. They are both fantastic.
I've never seen Matthias Schoenaerts before, but the guy is amazing. He
manages to juggle pain and deadpan humour simultaneously, which is
quite an achievement. Cotillard, meanwhile, is the usual perfect self
that she is. Such an expressive face, and she's able to make even the
hokiest of lines come off natural and genuine. I really didn't like her
in The Dark Knight Rises but, clearly, she's at her best when she's
speaking her natural language. They are what make these sequences
brutal and wonderful, through their chemistry and ability to suck the
audience in.The rest of the film is scattered with great supporting cast
performances, especially Armand Verdure as Ali's son Sam. The young boy
is a joy to watch, and can be added to that ever-growing list of strong
pre-teen child actors.I'm pretty sure Rust And Bone has won a few awards, and deservedly so.
It's amazing to watch, just because it's so fun to see brilliant
performances. Like I said before, the story itself isn't probably that
amazing. It's been done before; but it's done in such a way here, with
those two central performances, that it feels fresh and original. You
really should check it out.
