4
It could have been amazing. It could have become a blockbuster franchise. It could have boosted the Wachowskis' careers. But that's all Jupiter Ascending is.

I'll be upfront and warn those contemplating watching Jupiter Ascending
that you need to go in with low expectations to enjoy the film. Unless
your idea of what makes a film good is huge explosions, pretty
characters prancing around in elaborate costumes and beautiful visuals.
After all, who cares about plot, lines and pacing right?Jupiter Ascending is really very much a visual feast but nothing more
than that. The action sequences are generally well paced and I applaud
the fact that CGI for the actions were kept minimal. The costumes are
stunning (as are the actors).Which is a great pity because, on paper, Jupiter Ascending really had
potential.For a start, like all sci-fi films, Jupiter Ascending is ambitious in
its storytelling. An entirely different reality of an alternative
universe with its own ecosystem, species and history is created. There
are soldiers spliced with animal DNAs such as Caine (Channing Tatum)
who has some wolf in him and Stinger (Sean Bean) who has some bee in
him (guess where they got their names from?). There was potential to
explore and mine all that richness for more stories but this is
undermined by the weak delivery of the first film in what the studios
were probably hoping would be a new franchise.While the plot of Jupiter Ascending was hackneyed, it had pretty
interesting characters whose backstories would have been fun for the
audience to explore. I could have seen the many fanfiction pieces that
fans would have spun off from the story of Caine, Jupiter and the
Abrasax family. Let's be honest, the basic plot line of The Matrix, the
film franchise that the Wachowskis are renowned for, was pretty cliché
too – the story of a Chosen One who comes out of nowhere and whose
destiny is to save the world. It was the treatment of this plot premise
(as well as really cool action sequences and visuals) that made The
Matrix such a groundbreaking series. Jupiter Ascending's basic plot
premise was this too but the treatment was a complete letdown.The cast is also one that is renowned for not just their good looks but
also their ability to act. Somehow though, the directors succeeded in
not tapping on that ability. I can't help but wonder what kind of
directions Andy and Lana Wachowskis gave Eddie Radmayne for me to give
such an exaggerated and overly affected performance as Balem. It
reminds me somewhat chillingly of how Natalie Portman almost killed her
career with her expressionless and emotionless turn as Amidala in the
Stars Wars prequel trilogy. At least Radmayne has The Theory of
Everything that is out in the same season and that can probably help
cushion the fallout from Jupiter Ascending.To the Wachowskis' credit, Mila Kunis and Channing Tatum have some
chemistry. While their performances are not going to garner them any
Oscars, they put in decent performances to, I think, ward off any
Razzie nominations. It also helps that they are pretty easy on the eye.
Apart from these three actors, it is hard to discern the performances
put in by the rest of the cast as their characters do not appear to add
to the story. It makes it difficult for one to give a fair critique of
their performances hence I'll refrain from that here.Jupiter Ascending could also have been one of the few female-led action
films that could have been a successful film franchise, showing that
when female-led action films succeed, it's not necessarily a quirk.
This would have been helpful in Hollywood's evolution (if you haven't
figured out from my name, yes, I'm female).It also could have been the film that would have move the Wachowskis'
career out of its current state where the siblings are now more
renowned for the visual flash and bang in their films rather than the
creative storytelling and treatment that was showcased in The Matrix.
