1
Ask an illiterate to direct a Nobel worth work and he will give you a bad B-movie

OK, that's what happens if you let a soulless illiterate with no
knowledge nor respect like Peter Jackson direct a Nobel worth book into
a movie.He is barely knowledgeable to direct a popcorn flick. What do you
expect? A miracle? It simply didn't happen, this movie sucks from
beginning to end and all it achieved, while making tons of money, is to
irritate Tolkien's books lovers and connoisseurs (and there are many of
us out there).I doubt Peter Jackson even ever read Tolkien's books, because if he
did, THAT would really give his doctors some good reasons to rethink
his medication administration.Peter, life ain't 50% MTV and the rest video-games. There is literature
as well. We appreciate you aren't interested, so leave it alone.2 more partners (one literally so) in crime:1) Fran Walsh (Peter's untalented wife Jesus, he hired his wife...
She's pretty, I will give you that... BUT: former member of a lousy
punk rock band and author of a few embarrassingly awful B-movie
scripts, all of them for Peter. WOW what an impressive CV, let's hire
HER as screen writer for one of the most known and loved masterpieces
in the history of mankind. The Lord Of The Rings. He his overweight and
unattractive, she looks gorgeous, we all know how it works, you want to
make her happy (or have to?). Why don't you produce her punk rock
album? Buy her an Aston Martin. Must an all time literature wizard be
involved at all cost? God help us, could Jackson not hire his children
as hobbits, his dog as Gollum and his grandpa as Gandalf and make it a
silly TV comedy-reality show with laugh track? It looks like he just
doesn't give a damn);2) Philippa Boyens (the "writer" responsible of most of the
dumb-ideas-inspired-destruction in The Lord Of The Rings script. After
misunderstanding completely the original story of a masterpiece worth a
Nobel, she had the nerve to say she knew better than Tolkien himself
how to keep high the tension of the story. She actually said that in an
interview, I promise. Probably a pronoid (person convinced, despite any
visible evidence, to be considered a genius by everybody). Problem is
she isn't close to be as talented as arrogant. Her scripts are awful.
Something a bored hair dresser would have better written during the
manicure pause while watching Desperate Housewives on TV). Wasn't there
a REAL writer available? As the things she says truly are incredible, I
will quote a part of her interview, about the reasons why she turned
Faramir, one of the most subtle characters in the story, into a
brainless idiot.""If you're trying to up the tension, you don't have your main
characters captured by someone who sort of interrogates them, but, not
really, who then offers them a cup of tea and says, 'I'll do anything I
can to help you.' It's death on film. And it's not just the effect that
the character out of the book has on Frodo and Sam's journey, it's the
effect that character has on the Ring. You've just been desperately
trying to establish that this is the most evil thing ever created, it's
tearing apart the mind of your main character, it's reduced this other
character to this miserable creature Gollum, and now you come along
someone who says, 'I would not touch this thing if it lay on the
highway.' You've just stripped the Ring of all its power.""Is this amateur really saying that LOTR needs her support to up the
tension? Editing the story because it's not effective? Was Tolkien
wrong in the description of HIS OWN characters? "You've just stripped
the Ring of all its power"... well, pity J.R.R.Tolkien is no longer
with us, it took him over 40 years to write The lord Of The Rings. He
would have loved your corrections on his work, Mrs grammar school. Was
there really need of such brains, Peter? 99.99999% of this world loves
and knows Tolkien and his work, and you hire the only person who
doesn't to write a script? The only turd who thinks she knows better
than he did? Good choice...The 2 "writers" who had the nerve of destroying the work of a genius
flattening a deep, multi-layered masterpiece into a collage of daft
garden variety and redundant CGI manure (remember Donkey-Kong-Faramir?
Remember Super-Legolas using a shield as a skateboard or
Hyper-free-climbing on the back of an oliphant crossbred with a
skyscraper? All in all worth Gremlins without Gremlins fun to it.
Remember Tom Bombadil? No? Totally wiped out from the story... Why? No
reason), probably thinking that quantity can make up for quality. No,
it doesn't work that way.Read the books. LOVE the books. UNDERSTAND the damn books. THEN make
movies out of them.Or at least respect books, specially the ones you didn't understand.Tolkien had far better writing skills than you untalented bunch of
amateurs of labelling the only book present in your bookcase: "History
of Film-Making through popcorn flavours". Stop abusing his wonderful
work.Stop appointing untalented kindergarten teachers to jobs they aren't
capable of. Write your own silly B-movie "Dwarves vs Rock Giants", but
Mr. Jackson, you have no right nor title to pee and poo at will over
the milestones of literature.
