9
Brilliantly authentic and deeply touching

There are about four films that can overcome the "seen it" cynicism I
have, unlock my heart and make me feel genuine feelings. In other films
I can appreciate that the film is beautiful and emotional, but there
are only four that can really get to me. The first was Crash, the
second was The Green Mile and the third was Boyhood. Me and Earl and
the Dying Girl just scored the fourth slot on that extremely small
list. Alfonso Gomez-Rejon's film is a beautiful cocktail of wonderful
things. Its quirky and charming and witty and touching and somber and
delicate and completely beautiful. Its got elements of about six of my
favourite films of all time, and the fact that it slam dunked Sundance
doesn't even surprise me a bit. Thomas Mann's Greg is a weirdo. Imagine that Napoleon Dynamite went to
Cady Heron's school from Mean Girls, hated all the clicks and became a
cynic. Mann shades what could've been a completely unlikeable
protagonist with wonderful colours and depth, so much so that when his
friend Earl explains to Rachel why Greg is so averse to being friends,
we realise we've actually known the whole time. That's probably the
most beautiful part of Gomez- Rejon's direction - he never comes out
and beats you with information, he leads you gently to it and makes you
realise it yourself. RJ Cyler takes Earl, a generic Pedro-type sidekick
and makes him just the slacker you'd expect, but with incredible
qualities underneath. Olivia Cooke makes the audience love her with her
quietly devastating portrayal of a girl with leukaemia. All I can say
is that she is a worth recipient of my annual Patricia Arquette Award
For Character I Most Want to Hug.Considering this film has maybe one actor I'd ever heard of, there's a
huge pool of talent even in the supporting cast. John Bernthal is good
in everything. Nick Offerman is amazing as Greg's stay at home
intellectual dad, and Molly Shannon steals every scene as Rachel's
emotionally destroyed mother. Keep an eye out for Matt Bennett's
utterly bizarre but hilarious Scott Mayhew as well.Jesse Andrews' screenplay strikes an incredible balance between comedy
and drama. Its very easy for a film about cancerous teens to become
completely depressing and tedious, but the witty dialogue, incredible
spikes of humour and quirky characters make the film beautiful. Andrews
isn't trying to make a statement, he's just telling a story about a
normal boy who strikes up a friendship with a normal girl. The dialogue
is as real as any movie I've ever seen, and the use of minimal effects
and hand-held camera really created an authenticity that made me walk
away feeling like I've just watched a highly personal reflection, and
not a work of fiction.
