6
Welcome to a new world of mediocrity.

"Dead is just the beginning", right? In this case it might be the
beginning of the end of the world of gods and monsters. I have been
dwelling on how to review this movie as I want to be fair but I don't
want to mislead you.I will start by saying that Sofia Boutella nails the character of
Princess Ahmunet, she is truly a goddess with of course an ancient
course that she brought upon herself, but her character is so likable
you actually end up rooting for the ultimate evil, Boutella brings a
charisma to the mummy that it is hard to match.My biggest fear going in was Russell Crowe as doctor Henry Jekyll and
his other persona, Mr Edward Hyde, but the actor gives the performance
of his lifetime as both characters and his seedy organization, which is
truly as evil and ruthless as the "monsters" they chase. And this is
how I like my "heroes", men or groups that for the common "good" are
willing to become monsters themselves, it makes for an interesting
plot.Here's where things go sideways: Tom Cruise, yes I said it. Nick Morton
is an amalgamation of Rick O'Connell of the Brendan Fraiser movies and
Ethan Hawk from M:I. His character lacks charisma and his romance with
Jenny (Annabelle Wallis) is less than believable. It borders in a cheap
Fabio novel paper back, the movie would have been much better without
Tom Cruise and Nick Morton.Here's where things go bad: The special effects, last year I hammered
Ghostbusters for their "Scooby-like" CGI and it pains me as I have to
do the same here, the CGI was awful, seriously! When a TV Show like Game of Thrones can have great FX there is
absolutely no excuse to have a big franchise movie, the start of one
had FX so incredibly awful, they looked like a freaking cartoon. That
seriously killed the movie.There are a couple of good scenes but I have to say sadly that the Dark
Universe is dead, or at least it should be.My rating is 6 out of 10, and I'm being nice.Welcome to a new world of meh...
