1
How much more Michael Bay garbage can we handle?!

If it were possible to give a movie a negative score it would most
certainly be this awful piece of Hollywood CGI garbage. I am not one to
hate a movie solely on the fact that there is a lot of CGI used. I
think it is a great way to help TELL the story and use it as a tool to
help move the plot along. But when a movie is entirely based off of CGI
special effects action scenes it takes away from the plot itself. In
this movie the plot is VERY straightforward, one doesn't have to try
and connect the pieces or think too hard on what is going on. If I
remember correctly there is a fight scene about every 15-20 minutes all
throughout this 3 hour hell ride. By the time the end fight scene rolls
around you will be begging for it to be over and quickly.I just don't understand what happened to Michael Bay. He had a few
movies that I would consider good, even some that had a solid plot.
Special effects always seems to be his Achilles heel but movies such as
"The Rock", "Armageddon", and "The Island" all had semi-decent story
lines. If you have seen any of his other movies you also know that
product placement is something that he always does in his films. You
will see advertisements for "Bud Light", "Victoria Secret",
"Chevrolet", along with many others. Just another way he has sold his
soul to squeeze as much money as he can out of society.Rant over now let us get down to business....Mark Wahlberg, how are you still getting acting jobs? Is it just me or
does this guy play the same roll in almost every movie he does. The
overly cocky, smart-ass, bad-ass guy who is not to be messed with. He
had two terrific performances in "the fighter" and "the departed" and
instead of building off of those two performances to establish himself
as a very solid actor he sells out to take cheesy, awful movies. Deep
down I don't think he is the best of actors to begin with so maybe this
is the best we will see from him from this point on. In this movie
expect the exact same character he has been playing only this time he
is the father of the "hot" girl in the movie. Played by Nicola Peltz
who did a so-so job throughout the movie. She had some scenes where she
wasn't a complete bore to watch. That was my biggest problem with this
movie is that there was just nothing to latch onto. You couldn't sink
yourself into the story or into the characters without there being a
bomb or other type of explosion going on somewhere. Jack Reynor who
played Peltz's boyfriend actually did a good job as part time comic
relief part time hero. Hopefully he won't sell out to the teen girl
movies I'm sure he's been getting offers to play. Obviously both Reynor
and Peltz are attractive individuals, I only hope that their success in
future movies is more than skin deep. Kelsey Grammar, Stanley Tucci,
and Titus Welliver all give solid performances, or I guess I should say
as solid as you will expect out of this movie.So with this sub-par cast, horrible storyline, and CGI special effects
action scenes please see this movie with LOW expectations. The plot
itself doesn't make any sense. There are so many parts in this movie
where I was thinking to myself, "how did he know to do that?", "how did
he even get his cell phone number?", "how did they survive that?". My
biggest complaint was how Optimus Prime was supposed to be "fixed" by
Wahlberg because he couldn't function without proper assistance. And
then 10 minutes later he fixes himself and turns himself into a "cool"
semi-truck. There are just so many moments where the story turns on
itself because of garbage screen writing. The horrible part was there
is no explanation to the questions I had because there is no way to
explain it during the movie. Bay just doesn't care anymore because he
knows we will continuously pay to see such horrid garbage. IF you see
this movie and I hope you don't, please pay attention because I promise
you will be asking the same questions I did. If any of this movie is
appealing to you and you find it in anyway "amazing" do yourself a
favor and stop watching movies. This next line is the only real spoiler
of this review.... I will bet anyone a million dollars that you can
guess how this movie ends!! Yes that's right, Optimus Prime pulls out
his giant sword and cuts the evil decepticon robot in half. Exactly
like the other three movies. I implore you, please do not waste your
money or time seeing this movie in theaters. Wait for it to come out on
Netflix, do not give Bay or Hollywood anymore money. We need to wake up
as moviegoers.... when will enough be enough. We are smarter and better
than this America. The only reason I went to see this movie is because
my ticket was paid for me by a friend, I would not spend one cent on
another Bay film. Please heed my warning..... stay away from this film
at all costs!
