8
How all sequels should be made

Despite the change of director, Kick-Ass 2 doesn't feel one bit
different from its predecessor. It doesn't try anything revolutionary
or groundbreaking, but what's here is very well executed and enjoyable.
It's a prime example of how a proper sequel should be made.As a direct continuation from the first, the viewer should feel right
at home with the familiar characters. The story feels exactly like a
sequel should: changed characters facing new conflicts with higher
stakes and new faces to join in. Hit-Girl is this time facing
difficulties trying to adapt into the real world with her high school
life, while Kick-Ass himself finds new faces to fight crime with. All
the while Chistopher Mintz-Plasse's "world's first supervillain" (whose
name breaks the IMDb review guidelines) goes through a frightfully
convincing descent into madness and villainy and starts to wreck things
up.Kick-Ass 2 brings a whole bunch of new colourful lunatics to the cast,
with the standouts being Jim Carrey's erratic Colonel Stars and
Stripes, and Mother Russia, played with ruthless authority by Ukrainian
actress Olga Kurkulina. The cavalcade of new "good" superheroes in the
newly found superhero team "Justice Forever" get fairly little screen
time, but manage to feel like actual characters instead of mere
cutouts. The acting is spot-on, and I struggle to find a single weak
performance in the film.The action hasn't been softened at all from the first film. It's
visceral, brutal, and immensely gratifying. If anything, Kick-Ass 2 far
surpasses the level and amount of violence of the first, so much so
that at times the viewer might be wondering "Is it okay I'm having so
much fun with this?" Special mention must be paid to the sound effects
team, because the various crunches and cracks really drive the
physicality home. The final fight scene is truly spectacular, and the
film is worth paying full ticket price for it alone.If I was forced to find bigger flaws in the film (which there are next
to none), the tone of the film should be addressed. It sways wildly
between comedic, brutal, somber, parodic and downright cruel, but it
never feels inconsistent; the tone feels appropriate for each scene. To
me it wasn't a problem, but some viewers might find the more extreme
scenes wince-worthy, because of how dark and brutal this film feels at
times. Recommendation: If you liked Kick-Ass, you're definitely going to like
this. It's not the new Citizen Kane, but if you're up for a good,
bloody, violent time, Kick-Ass 2 delivers in spades.
