7
Knower of All, Master of None

Christian Wolff (Affleck) has a secret. Behind the cover of an
unassuming CPA office, the otherwise resourceful and bashful math
savant works free-lance for some of the world's most nefarious criminal
enterprises in the world. Yemen, Pakistan, New York, London, no matter
where the man goes, there's simply no balance book too unclean nor any
employer too dangerous for Wolff not to find missing money. Those
recalcitrant enough to think he knows too much, end up at the business
end of an anti-aircraft gun.Yet this is only part of the story of Christian Wolff, as hinted in the
puzzle-piece graphics of the film's brilliant trailer. One thing we get
to know almost straight away is Wolff is somewhere on the spectrum.
Asperger's, PDD, high-functioning autism; "I prefer not to put a label
on things," says Jason Davis's neurologist character as young Chris
(Lee) jostles in the background. Convenient; now we can assume Wolff's
abilities to uncooked 15 years of books in a single afternoon, kill an
assailant with a J. Crew bridle belt and find the works of Jackson
Pollock stimulating are all functions of his un- categorized disorder.Now in fairness to the film, Hollywood hasn't exactly had a stellar
track record when it comes to giving autistic characters moments in the
limelight, even when they're being portrayed with a modicum of sympathy
or humanity. To give credit where credit is due, The Accountant does a
good job differentiating between the attributes of Chris's disorder
with the skills he has ascertained through years of tutelage from his
roughneck father (Treveiler). As exploitative as the film could have
been, I give props to writer Bill Dubuque for not making our entrenched
protagonist an autism powered super assassin but rather a gifted
assassin who also processes the world differently.Yet the film also seems to want to add more to the soup adding layers
of espionage thriller dramatics, murder mystery reveals and oddly
familiar flashbacks which all seem to serve different masters. Much of
the film diverts attention between Wolff and blackmailed Treasury
analyst Marybeth Medina (Addai-Robinson) who is coaxed by Director King
(Simmons) to find the mystery accountant. The buildup in itself is
alright but the backlog of reveals and plot-twists culminates in one
fifteen minute exposition drop that capsizes the film like throwing a
brick at a miniature sailboat.Meanwhile the mystery afoot in The Accountant involves Wolff's newest
freelance job which has him investigating biomedical pioneer Lamar
Black (Lithgow) and his company. While initially a mundane audit job,
Wolff finds himself in a web of intrigue that ensnares the company's
board of directors, a sinister security force and a salaried accountant
(Kendrick) who first uncovered the can of worms. Again, the mystery in itself could have worked if it lent itself more
organically to the character. Unfortunately the unexpected Michael
Clayton (2007) milieu only made me want to see Wolff's less legitimate
work all the more. It'd be one thing if Wolff was a pedestrian CPA with
Asperger's, who was suddenly thrust into a plot of corporate intrigue.
Yet knowing that the man has a clientele that includes terrorists, drug
cartels, the mob and a suspiciously quaint melon farmer, I kept
expecting bigger fish to come swimming up.Overall, The Accountant is a skillfully done semi-decent thriller that
could have done infinitely better if it defined what it was early and
kept its focus. Is it a cerebral mystery, a ballsy action flick, a
family drama, a cautionary tale, a morality play, an excuse to commend
Ben Affleck's range; certainly it can be all. But sadly it settles for
being a knower of all and a master of none.
