5
No Life on Mars

John Carter is based on "A Princess of Mars", the first in a series of
tales of the adventures of John Carter by Edgar Rice Burroughs (who
also notably created Tarzan). The series is of the high adventure
variety of science fantasy, where you check your disbelief at the door
and just go with the fun. Star Wars, Avatar, and many other successful
science fantasy films owe something to Burroughs, and unfortunately
those films beat Carter to the punch, so audiences may feel they are
seeing something derivative of those franchises. And, in the production
sense at least, they may be right.Carter is at its best when the action is fast and the fun is light,
with laughs mixed in with the punches and swordplay. A well crafted
intro gives us an idea of who Captain John Carter is and what makes him
an unlikely hero. Sadly, once transported to Mars (known by its
inhabitants as Barsoom) the plot falls to tedium, with few action
scenes separated by never-ending and never convincing "romance" between
Carter and Dejah, the titular Princess of Burroughs' tale. The two
(Taylor Kitsch and Lynn Collins) are so bad every scene between them is
like a prompt to check your watch. Each of Carter and Dejah's tedious
conversation is like hearing a weird conversation between a crappy
Batman and Hamlet's Ophelia. The dialogue doesn't help; billboards
don't have words this stiff.The supporting cast is good enough to make an effort at saving the
film. Ciaran Hinds, Dominic West, James Purefoy, Mark Strong, and even
Willem Dafoe are all present and doing their best. But it's Breaking
Bad's Bryan Cranston who practically makes the film's opening all on
his own. Unfortunately, these terrific performers are used to little
effect, and the film suffers for it.Production design for the film is a mixed bag. Visual effects are
astounding, but costume design is weak. So in some scenes you have
ridiculous looking actors boring you in front of beautiful backdrops or
in incredible set pieces. Sound design is not good, and the score is
downright pitiful. As much as the movie wants to be Star Wars, it just
can't match Lucas' ability in that film to pull together the best of
everyone at their jobs, creating a movie that looks and sounds gorgeous
and works well together. Carter is more piecemeal, with a good quality
here and a ruinous disaster there, a hodgepodge of the best and worst
Disney could muster. Director Andrew Stanton, known primarily for his
work on fantastic Pixar productions like Wall-E and Finding Nemo,
surely gets the blame here. Though I've loved his animated features,
not all directors of animation are ready for live action (as proved
only recently by Mission Impossible: Ghost Protocol).As a throwaway popcorn muncher for the kids, this movie might prove a
winner. The simple inch-deep characters and the generic comedy/action
certainly seemed fun enough as long as you're not looking for more. But
my warning to adults who decide to take the kids is to expect to be
bored, and endure a long dark two hours of the soul.Rating: 2.5/5 Recommendation: Wait for cable. See my other reviews at
clarketaculargeek.wordpress.com
