1
Should've been titled: X-Men days of future plot holes!

(Spoiler Warning) I'm really scratching my head on this one guys, this
movie's been hailed as "The best x-men movie ever!" I'm sorry, but I
REALLY have to disagree on this one. Before I state all the reasons why
I hated this movie, let me start off with two positive comments: Hugh
Jackman is still good as Wolverine, and the character of Quicksilver,
was pretty cool. Now for the numerous reasons as to why I hated this
film. So we start off looking at a destroyed, post apocalyptic,
landscape that looks like it was ripped off from the first two
Terminator movies. We then get some narration from Charles Xavier. He
explains that most of the mutant population has been enslaved or killed
by these killer machines known as sentinels. Then we see a small group
of mutants who are both hiding, and trying to fight the sentinels.
Xavier tells them that the only chance for the mutant race to survive,
is to go back in time to try to prevent the assassination of a
government scientist, which in turn prevents the deployment of the
sentinels. So Wolverine is sent back through time, and must prevent
fellow mutant Mystique, from doing the deed. You would think that a
plot involving time travel would be intriguing and interesting right?
Well not in this movie! There's almost no action, The actors are bland,
and you couldn't care less for any of the characters! That's only the
tip of the iceberg folks! What really kills it is the fact the the plot
has more holes in it than a slice of Swiss cheese! Before I talk about
that though, let me back up a bit. When "X-men first class" came out, I
thought to myself: Okay cool, they're rebooting the x-men franchise and
making a whole new series." Turns out they weren't, the only reason why
"X-Men first class was made, was so that they could create a whole new
continuity that they could smash together with the old continuity. The
result of this, is a clusterf*cked mess! This film won't leave you
feeling good or entertained, it will only leave you with a head full of
questions. Such as these: Why is Xavier alive in the future, when we
clearly saw him being killed by the phoenix in part 3? Why does
Wolverine have bone claws in the past, but metal claws in the future?
Why does Xavier claim to have known Mystique since she was a child,
when there was no indication of that in the original films? Why does
Wolverine claim that in the future he and Hank McCoy (Beast) are
friends when there was no previous indication of that? In the climax of
the film, the sentinels have already been built. Even though they
succeed in their mission, what's there to stop someone else from using
them? How does Wolverine survive for so long underwater? Did Mystique
perform the adamantium experiments on Wolverine? Why and how are
Cyclops and Jean Grey alive again at the end? This movie doesn't even
so much as attempt to answer any of the questions that it leaves the
viewer with! Frankly, it would be easier to solve a Rubik's cube on LSD
than it would be be to figure this movie out! So far, I've never been
impressed with ANY of the X-men films. 1 and 2 were lame, 3 was
garbage, and this one was even worse! I'm done with this franchise! I
don't care what they do with the next film, I've put up with all the
incompetence I can take! From now on, it's just the x-men comics and
cartoons for me. Sorry 20th century fox, but you guys blew it!
