6
Self/less Review

Billionaire Damian Hale (Ben Kingsley) is on top of the world until he
runs into a problem he can't solve, Cancer. His only hope is a new
medical procedure called "shedding," in which his consciousness is
transferred to a healthy body. After Damian undergoes this procedure,
he becomes a man named Edward (Ryan Reynolds). Once he attempts to
start a new life in New Orleans, he starts to become ravaged by visions
of his new body's past. As he begins to investigate the origin of his
new body, he learns the lengths that his creators will take to protect
their procedure and keep their identities secret.The film, I will admit, introduces an original concept that not many
films have covered. It's a shame that it does not stay with it for very
long. We start off with older Damian coming to terms with where he is
in his life and with his condition and then the film pivots to more of
an action film as younger Damian/Edward investigates his roots through
his visions and survive its resistance. It was a shame that more time
wasn't spent with the older version of Damian. This loss created a void
in the story. It would have been better if we could have spent more
time with him so his character could be more developed. From the little
we got to see, he appears to not be that great of a person. If we knew
more, we would have reason to root for him. The time spent during an
unnecessary sequence in the middle could have helped with that. There
is a lack of consistency in the character of Damian as well. The
character is played by 2 different actors but their performances are
not the same. There seems to not be any apparent, similar, alignment in
mannerisms between the two Damians, they don't act too similarly
either. That could either be because of writing, Ryan Reynolds'
performance, and/or not too careful direction. The film had the chance
to try to answer some philosophical questions relating to the value of
human life or the morality of valuing a life over. When you start to
wonder if this whole "shedding" procedure is even possible, you are
forced to accept that it is. Instead of being about Damian coming to
terms with his new body and life, it chooses the path of gun fights and
car chases. This is the moment when the film falls into the realm of
mediocrity. It isn't revolutionary. The twists will not come as much of
a surprise either. The film managed to keep my attention but I would of
preferred it to cover more of the philosophical issues relating to the
procedure. The film has a good idea but it could have been portrayed in
a different/better way.
