8
A three-way marriage---of head, heart, and libido

The challenging---yet ultimately satisfying---approach of "Professor
Marston and the Wonder Women", is that it isn't about any one thing,
it's about several things (at least 3).It's a *think piece* about relationships and sexuality. What's normal?
What makes for true happiness? What sacrifices should the individual
(couple, throuple) make to fit in to the larger society? Can men really
be feminist, or does male privilege get in the way? Is sexual jealousy
inevitable, or can it be transcended through empathy? It's a heart-tugger, of very *human* beings facing real pain. But
meeting that pain with real love---and then triumphing through their
creativity.And it's well, um, a loin-tingler: the sex is HOT! (And so few movies
get that right). It's especially the accomplishment of the *female
gaze* (thank you, writer/director Angela Robinson!) Female sexual
agency (and even female romantic foibles---but played seriously, not
for male laughs).Even if this movie has some of the innate problems of the bio-pic
(trying to make every Real Life Story aspect FIT into the mechanics of
good drama), its narrative framing(s) lift it considerably above the
average in this genre. There are at least 2: 1) the Child Psychology
Board hearing (looking back at the beginning/evolution of the
William/Elizabeth/Olive relationship, via the origins of the Wonder
Woman comic, and 2) WM Marston's "DISC" theory: literally evaluating
their individual lives and relationship, via
Dominance-Inducement-Submission-Compliance. Marston tells us what makes
for a happy life...but how much more powerful when the film actually
shows us (in the struggle to get there).All this, and lie detectors/Wonder Woman too! With a crackling script,
and outstanding performances (above all, by Rebecca Hall: Academy, "For
Your Consideration"!) If you're ready to think, feel---and then maybe
have a fun night w/ someone(s?) special afterwards, "Professor Marston
and the Wonder Women" is your movie. Make it a date night! ;-)
