10
A Love Story Against The Backdrop Of A Grand Interstellar Travel

Love is the one thing that transcends time and space... New creation of Christopher Nolan's genius, whose name is now known to
everyone. His films are waiting with a special look, because it offers
something that every day, unfortunately, less and less can be found in
the world of mass cinema - an interesting spectacle, filled with
meaning, ideas and emotions. At this time, Christopher decided to send
us not to the world of dreams, and even not on the dark streets of
Gotham City. No, now he send us to the journey to, and perhaps beyond
the boundaries of the possible and impossible, through the curvature of
space and time, in other worlds. And you won't forget this trip, this
can be assured. I was madly waiting for Interstellar's release. And then, finally, I
was able to see this Beauty - at the premiere in my coutry on October,
29. It was incredibly exciting. It was a delight. It was unforgettable.
It was gorgeous. Nolan once again amazes the viewer's imagination by
his painting. Journey to the brink of infinity, the line where humanity
has never set, acts as either the first-born purpose and a background
of emotional history about the father and the daughter. A loving father
who mankind need to help, but that he should leave his children, and a
loving daughter who doesn't want to let her dad in the infinity
darkness. Starting from the very first frame and ending with the closing credits,
a new picture of Nolan will absorb you completely, forcing stare at the
screen during the whole action, because it's all so exciting and
interesting that escape becomes physically impossible. No, this three
hours won't fly quickly for you. You'll feel every emotion, every
event, every character. You will not look how the main characters
travel through the universe, because the movie experience in this film
is so excellent that you will be on board of "Endurance" starship and
travel between the worlds with the main characters by yourself.The emotional core of this story is the relationship of Matthew
McConaughey's character and his daughter - Mackenzie Foy' and Jessica
Chastain' character. And the acting work of these three artists in
"Interstellar" impress the most. McConaughey was acting really great,
and this is one of the most emotional, if not the most emotional role
of his life. All the drama and tragedy of the relationship of father
and daughter in this film will not leave anyone indifferent. Anne
Hathaway, Wes Bentley, Michael Caine, Casey Affleck, Ellen Burstyn and
other actors also coped with their roles and presented the film's
supporting characters very realistic. I would particularly like to note
a small but important in this story role of Matt Damon, a character who
has received quite memorable. If we talk about the characters, it
should be noted also two robots that accompanied our heroes in this
difficult journey. One of them adds a touch of humor in the film, which
mitigates constantly depressing, dramatic, and sometimes really dark
atmosphere.The script of the film is very well combined the history of space
exploration and the relationship between Cooper and Murph. The story is
complex and complicated, is based on real scientific theories by Kip
Thorne, and indeed contains a reference to the "Space Odyssey" and
other sci-fi pictures. This story about true love, about loyalty,
forgiveness, fraud, hard decisions, and much more. And it is designed
so that leaves a lot of room for the imagination of the viewer. It's
also possible to notice some structure allusion to another Nolan's work
- Inception. The story and visuals are combined just perfectly in
Interstellar.Hans Zimmer's score, written by him on the basis of only one letter
from Nolan, hold the key: "Once we become parents, we can't help but
look at ourselves through the eyes of our children", deserves a special
praise. On this basis, Hans managed to write just incredible soundtrack
that perfectly harmonizes with the history and the visual side of the
picture. And this work of the composer is really different from the
previous ones. It is executed in a different style from another subject
in its base. Very impressive work, which will be pleasantly listened
again and separate from the film itself. Visual range of the picture is incredibly beautiful and circuses. The
"Endurance" itself, new worlds, insanely beautiful and mysterious
space, wormholes, black holes, and travel through them, folds of time
and space are arranged so that is simply breathtaking. I would like to
thank all those who contributed to the creation of a visual of this
film. It must be seen. That mastery with which this is done, not just
words. In the visual pattern also has some references to the Kubrick's
"Odyssey", and they are pleasing to the eye.Many thanks to Christopher Nolan for having given us such an incredible
movie, which once again proved to us that the cinema is Nolan's life. "Interstellar" is a film that wins the hearts of the audience not only
with its sci-fi splendor, but also an emotional story that lies at its
very heart. This film is not only about the discoveries, space
exploration and the final frontier of mankind, but also about the
relationship of father and daughter, who were in a difficult situation
in life when one has to leave the other in the name of a goal that can
not be underestimated. So, with what Nolan's genius unfolds before us
this action is beyond praise. Combining the story, filled with not only
real science fiction, but the true human values ​​and emotions,
outstanding and very emotional performances, breathtaking visuals, epic
and dramatic soundtrack, Christopher Nolan breathed the life into this
film by his directing to create something truly masterpiece again. "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night... Rage, Rage Against The Dying
Of The Light."
