3
WORST X-men movie ever (by far).

Usually plot holes are isolated. This movie was however one giant
plothole. (1) GrandpaThis is what I understood at the end of the movie: Turns out Grandpa is
a bad ass who just wanted to magically suck Wolverine's healing powers
and live forever. So what he did was (i) Invite Wolverine to Japan;
(ii) Fake his own death; (iii) As part of his plan (?) inject a spider
onto Wolverine's heart so that he loses his healing powers--What in the
world did this achieve for evil Grandpa?; (iv) As part of his plan (?)
allow his granddaughter to be subject to multiple assassination
attempts, just so that Wolverine will keep following her; (v) Then
after leaving a trail of crumbs for Hansel and Gretel, captures his
granddaughter, and lures Wolverine to some sort of lair, where his
powers can be sucked.The (?)'s indicate where I am not sure if it was really part of
Grandpa's plan or things just worked out this way. Given the tremendous amount of uncertainty involved in the above plan
(e.g. Wolverine might've been killed, in which case no powers to suck;
his granddaughter might've been killed, in which case end of story, and
Wolverine would've returned to the Yukon to chill out with grizzlies),
you'd think there'd been a simpler and cleaner way to do all this. But
no. All this is quite forgivable, compared to other things that went wrong. (2) ViperwomanWhat the hell is motivating her? What does she want? Is she working for
herself? Or is she working for Grandpa and if so, why? How did she inject the spider onto Wolverine's heart? Just by kissing
him in the middle of the night? (This was never clarified.)(3) Japanese Father and Japanese FiancéOK so it turns out the whole family (except pretty granddaughter) are a
bunch of one-dimensional assholes. This is clichéd and boring and
stupid, but still acceptable if you at least make some effort
explaining what exactly was motivating them. Japanese Father wants to kill his own daughter just because Grandpa
willed her everything? (Oh, and this too was part of Grandpa's grand
masterplan?)Japanese Fiancé is just some asshole who's engaged to pretty
granddaughter (this, BTW, is explained for us gaijin simply by the line
that "You're not Japanese, so you won't understand"). He's the minister
of justice or something. And he likes to have white hookers in his
hotel room. Uh, and what else do we know about him? Nothing! Basically
he's just some asshole who somehow wants to do bad things. There are many other things wrong with this movie. E.g.,(4) Totally artificial and forced chemistry between Wolverine and
pretty Japanese granddaughter.I literally cringed whenever they hooked up. (5) Jean Gray bad dreams BS was just LAMEI can think of only two things I liked about the movie: (A) The
Nagasaki A-bomb scene. Pretty sick, think it's the first time I've seen
it portrayed up-close in any movie. (B) The black ninjas, doing their
thing in the middle of the night and flying across roof-tops.Other than that this movie was total scheisse.
