10
Marvel Slays it Once Again! Bravo!!!

I had a feeling that Captain America: Winter Soldier would be an
amazing movie once the trailer was released. Turns out, I couldn't be
more accurate. Captain America: The Winter Soldier is not the usual
superhero movie, it underlies a dark theme of politics and conspiracy
beneath it. Haunting pasts, betrayals and fake deaths all come into
play. In this film, we get to see Steve Rogers' full potential in terms
of his heroism and leadership. When the leader of S.H.E.I.L.D., Nick
Fury, takes the fall, it is up to Steve Rogers to determine the fate of
S.H.E.I.L.D and most importantly, the livelihood of mankind. As the
stoic and fearless hero that he is, Rogers takes charge and enlists the
help of Natasha Romanoff aka The Black Widow as well as a new sidekick,
Sam Wilson aka Falcon, to defeat HYDRA. He exuberates skills that we
have never seen before with his gravity defying flips, kicks and
punches, even single handedly defeating a whole vessel of villains. It
is also exciting to see the strong bond between Captain America, Black
Widow and Falcon. The trios are as loyal as ever to one another, never
once faltering despite near death scenarios and with multitude
obstacles being hurled their way like a violent hurricane. They
displayed excellent teamwork in the process of defeating the baddies.
The movie also sheds some light and heart-warming moments as well. The
playful and snarky banter between good friends Natasha and Steve is fun
to watch. The escalator scene, anyone? Also, the scene between Steve
and his former love, Peggy was priceless. Here, we get to see the
vulnerable and raw side of the Captain which he hides so well on a
daily basis.This film is a perfect blend of thrill, action and drama with an
intriguing plot. The action sequences are plentiful; there is not just
one "special" moment. I was gawking and gripping the edge of my seat
throughout the movie. The stunts are top notch and are the best in its
genre, perhaps even triumphing the likes of action movies. There are
tons of extraordinary fighting combats, insane car chases and fiery
explosions that would blow you off your feet. All the actors did a
splendid job in portraying their characters convincingly, particularly
Chris Evans, Samuel L. Jackson and Scarlett Johansson. Scarlett has a
major role and takes up pretty much most of the screen time; so take
note of this, fanboys.Captain America: Winter Soldier has claim its spot as the best Marvel
movie ever produced in my list as it exceeds my expectations in every
single way. I daresay it is even better than The Avengers (It is a
large statement to make as I am a massive Avengers fan). I can't wait
to see the next installment of the Captain America sequel and The
Avengers: Age of Ultron. Bring it on, Marvel!
