10
Del Toro's new moving, thrilling romantic fantasy

If I was to tell you about Guillermo Del Toro's new film what would I
say.As the father of dark fantasy, Guillermo Del Toro knows how to bring
alive the illusive wonderlands and nightmares we can relish and
transform them into wonderful poignant crafts of insight and meaning,
and The Shape of Water is no exception. With its journey from Venice to
Toronto, The Shape of Water has now hit the London Film Festival, now
within reach of this exuberant critic. I had only the budget to see one
film at this year's festival and I most certainly made a wise decision.During the Cold War conflict of the 60s, a mute but hearing Eliza
(Sally Hawkins) works as a cleaner at a secret government facility,
where she becomes drawn to the new specimen: a mysterious marine
creature (Doug Jones). While Eliza begins to fall in love with it, the
facility head Richard Strickland (Michael Shannon), only desires to
take the creature apart for experimental advantage against the
Russians. Eliza's bond with the creature soon begins to effect those
around her: her neighbour Giles (Richard Jenkins), work college Zelda
(Octavia Spencer) and scientist Robert Hoffsteder (Michael Stuhbarg)
What is amazing profound about Del Toro's latest work is its eccentric
visualisation in reflection of the political and social conceptions of
the past , but also today. The most centralised end is the the
treatment of those who are different. Directly dealing with the fantasy
of other species but intertwined with racial treatment relevant to the
time in which the film is set, and then of course against the back drop
of the national conflicts, but then also the value of those with
deficiencies, as portrayed by Sally Hawkins.More distant from his darker tones in, Pan's Labyrinth, and Crimson
Peak, but not far from the surreal fantasy, The Shape of Water becomes
more grounded than previous Del Toro films, and diversely more lighter
and funnier. With frequent laughs and jokes on screen, the romantic
fantasy is a much light hearted watch, of course not without its moment
of bloody violence but at a lower volume. What may be hard for some
audiences to get their head around, is this idea of an inter-species
relations and with the astonishing design of the creature itself
becomes something more than just a fish costume. The bond and sexuality
of this romance is a significant thread to the film and is one that
featured heavily with its repetitive moments of adult content. But what
Del Toro explores its is real beauty in love and within the context of
the film it does becomes something remarkable.Sally Hawkins is exceptional in her vigorous performance as the mute
Eliza, with dynamic sign language and spirited facial expressions, we
see the isolated heart of the "princess without voice" which makes her
connection to this solitary creature all the more real. Opposite her is
the confident physical actor Doug Jones, manning the rubber suit of the
creature in a brilliant bodily performance, outdoing his previous
collaborative performances with Del Toro. Then Michael Shannon
sensationally brings the real monster to the tale in Strickland, the
dominating Colonel facing his battle in masculinity as well as with the
creature. Shannon gives one of the best performances of his career,
keeping with that classic fairy tale juxtaposition of man being the
real monster.As with all Del Toro's dark fantasies, it all becomes about the
characters. Eliza reaching out to another like herself. Strickland
trying to maintain his power and masculinity in his skirmish with the
creature and Eliza. Hoffsetider being caught between to sides but
seeking his own right, and Giles trying to find his significance back
in society.As never fails with a Del Toro films is the signature production design
that brings to life these magnificent worlds. The Shape of Water
although is not full Del Tory fairy tale land, does have a very
extraordinary construct of the real world, from Eliza's apartment to
the secret facility, echoing the true Gothic universe of the real
world. Opening in a momentous title sequence, Del Toro literally floods
the screen in ravishing visual effects and segments. Only more so
combined with the inescapable talents of cinematographer: Dan Laustsen,
swiftly moving from one room to the next in a mythical immersive
experience alluring us furthermore into the depths of the story and art
work of the film.The Shape of Water is a wonderfully weird, quirky, heart-warming,
extraordinary piece of cinema. For fans who have found Del Toro's
previous works too dark or scary, will be delighted by this much more
charming fantasy.
