1
The Manipulation Power of Nostalgia and Mass Appeal

I want to start by stating I truly have enjoyed all Star Wars movies
prior to this one. Even the prequels (which are obviously not as good)
demolish this movie in plot, character building and EVEN action
sequences. (there is only two lightsaber battles and they last seconds)Anyone with a brain and knowledge of the original trilogy can see that
Star Wars: Episode VII was a regurgitation of the first three film's
plot condensed into two hours. Everything was the same with slight
twists down to the famous "Luke, I am your father" scene except it's
with Han Solo and his apparent Sith son who stabs and throws off of the
new Death Star.They added a bigger and badder Death Star, tossed Anakin's lightsaber
around to whoever felt like using it to fight and did a terrible job of
carrying on Star Wars essence. It was flooded with humor and half a**ed
acting. There was no training or build up of power Rey is literally
able to defeat the most powerful Sith Lord as a teenage girl who days
before didn't even know she was a Jedi. Finn was able to wield and use
a lightsaber although as far as I am concerned he is not a Jedi. Han Solo and Chewbacca just happen to come across the Millennium Falcon
after 30 years which just happens to have Luke Skywalker's daughter,
Finn, and a droid carrying the map to Luke Skywalker on it. The film
was pretty much downhill for me from this point on I spent most of my
time watching this with a "What???" face and hands up in confusion as
to how they could have made the film suck so bad.This film literally spanned out the introduction of old characters we
know and love in order to keep our attention and keep us excited to see
the next only to disappoint us with no further elaboration in story and
literally no emotion. Leia hardly even reacted to losing the love of
her life Han Solo. The dialogue between the two of them was rushed and
obvious that they were trying to explain 30 years of story in small
talk. What I take as the mentality for this film: MAKE A BIGGER DEATHSTAR, OH
BIGGER EMPEROR TOO (srsly what was up with that), GIRL JEDI MAIN
CHARACTER, BLACK GUY WHO MIGHT BE A JEDI TOO MAIN CHARACTER (I am
African American so don't take this as racism) people are going TO EAT
THIS UP. And congratulations, you all did and now they will keep
milking the franchise and making terribly thought out films with
nothing more than CGI and humor to make up for it. Throughout this film I found myself wanting to walk out of the theater
and just be done but I couldn't resist waiting for the punchline of
this joke of a film and boy did I get it. After all of the humor
riddled torture we are brought to the final scene. Rey is going to see
her long lost dad who I guess spent all of this time standing on a
random mountain looking at the beach. And then it happens, what we had
all been waiting for. Luke turns around and sees the daughter he was
forced to abandon and she hold out Anakin's lightsaber as some odd
tribute to him (I don't see the symbolism in this) at this point I just
burst out laughing at how bad this journey has been and that's it it's
over. The next thing I see is JJ Abrams. I proceeded to scream "BOO" at
the screen multiple times with the only response to it being "cmon it
wasn't that bad" after that I walked outside and contemplated throwing
up as the movie was so bad it caused me to feel nauseous. This film took advantage of Star Wars fans and played into a hand of
re-doing famous scenes with different characters and telling the same
story over again. It's sad that people actually think this movie was
good or acceptable because now they are going to once again shame the
Star Wars name.BOYCOTT EPISODE 8. THIS RENDITION NEEDS TO BE SCRAPPED AND REBOOTED
THEY ARE JUST MILKING THIS FRANCHISE.
