5
A series running on fumes

If there was a case for young adult adaptation are all the same and
blend together then Allegiant can be used as evidence, borrowing
elements from The Hunger Games and Maze Runner series.After the events of Insurgent the faction system has broken down after
the people have found out that Chicago was no more than an experiment.
Tris (Shailene Woodley) wants to see the outside world and together
with her boyfriend, Four (Theo Jones), brother Caleb (Ansel Elgort),
friends Christina (Zoe Kravitz), Tori (Maggie Q) and Peter (Miles
Teller - the term friend is being used very loosely) go over the wall
and discover a civilisation of scientific advance people lead by David
(Jeff Daniels) who explains how the world felt into chaos and why Tris
is so special. But, David has his own motives.I had a soft spot for the Divergent series until now: the first two
films were solid films for their target audience and had some fun
trippy Inception style scenes in the mindscape. Yet the good will that
the series has built has spent and Allegiant used ideas from Mockingjay
and The Maze Runner sequels, that people secretly exist beyond the
world and they are not to be trusted whilst the desert landscape is
like the one in The Maze Runner: The Scorch Trials, just with much
worst CGI.Allegiant even rips off the previous films in the series. The climax is
similar to what happened in the first two films, the heroes have to
break into the central governmental building to stop the villain's
scheme and free either friends or family. Insurgent was able to get
away with this because there was enough of a different because Tris was
stuck in the dreamscape to open mystery box.Allegiant relies on the characters to be idiots for the plot to
continue, especially Tris who should have been more sceptical of the
mysterious people who have been watching Chicago, not less. She was
both the chosen saviour who had enhanced instincts yet also be
incredibly gullible.The relief in Allegiant is the world fell apart was humanity split
between genetically enhanced people and regular people. Basically it
was a cross between Gattaca, X-Men and the Animatrix short The Second
Renaissance. Humanity split into factions because the genetically
enhanced got corrupted, making some virtues greater at the expense of
others, making them 'damaged'. Tris is told she's the cure for the
'damaged' and like the kids in the Maze Runner series being the cure
for the zombie outbreak. Even for a sci-fi film this is a stretch and
Allegiant does not mitigate the criticism the series has suffered that
the faction system doesn't make any sense: if anything the revelation
makes the concept harder to swallow.Allegiant shows that the Divergent film series has run its course. It
has run out of ideas and the low Rotten Tomatoes score and box office
returns has put paid to the idea that there would be a sequel: although
there would be a sense of schadenfreude to see big- name and emerging
actors forced to appear in a TV movie.
