7
More "Where's Waldo" than Jason Bourne

Actually reviews are not supposed to be based on wishful thinking.Nonetheless for those members who gave this a high rating more out of
frustration than anything else, I do feel your pain.The original Bourne trilogy was not merely good, it was superb. As a
top reviewer here with some 1200 reviews under my belt I said more than
once that the original was the best spy trilogy I had ever seen and I
am unashamed of the fact that I have seen each film in that series four
or five times since original release. They are an adrenaline rush, the
perfect mix of story, form, and effect.Even 2012's Bourne Legacy -- a feature where it was ever so clear that
Damon had been offered a fortune just to walk-on and smile at the
camera, but refused anyway -- was a solid movie, great script, held the
attention, and Renner did a great job.However, now that I have seen Jason Bourne 2016, I cannot help but wish
that Damon had agreed to participate in Legacy, rather than be lured
back 4 years later for a part he clearly no longer likes, in a
production he would rather not be in.I tend toward "purist" reviews, that is to say, I don't really care WHY
a film was made as much as I do about how entertaining is it to watch
...? (That said, I have to "assume" that Damon broke his vow and came back
simply for the cash. And Greengrass agreed to take hold of the camera
one more time only if he could get a writing credit too. Ugh!)So, speaking of entertainment, there is almost none in this movie. The
script is a mess. Written by the director for the clear purpose of
showcasing his action and camera-work skills, there is no attempt to
build connection from the top.The script is so bad that even viewers in love with the original
trilogy -- like this one -- have to keep reminding themselves who
Bourne is supposed to be, and what is supposed to motivate him.(Not to mention major plot holes here and there. Am I the only one who
noticed that the most WANTED MAN IN America attempted to enter customs
under his own name with no advance certainty that the computer would be
"fixed" in time? Remember, from the second film in the series, this is
a man who "never guesses and never makes mistakes." Other than
accepting to do this film, that is.) A good film makes the viewer feel good. The scientists call it
endorphin production. This 120 minute endless chase, from the top of
the movie to the ending, merely produces a caffeine buzz and sets your
nerves on edge. Yes, Greengrass can use this production in his own
personal highlight reel to showcase his moving camera skills. But his
writing skills? Not so much.Tommy Lee Jones delivers possibly the most superficial performance of
his excellent career and the money he was offered cannot begin to make
up for the indignity of the closeups.Newcomer Alicia Vikander acquits herself well. Then again, she is a
newbie with a whole string of good movies ahead of her, career-wise,
whereas the actors in this film seemed more interested in taking the
money ... and running.Finally, dear reader, before you start to monkey-hammer the NOT USEFUL
key -- which has somehow morphed into an I Don't AGREE key -- I will
add that the variance between the score here and the score on Rotten
Tomatos is the widest I have ever seen for a major release. Over at RT,
this mess barely made 60%. Here at IMDb, the "fans" just can't seem to
get enough...?
