6
Not Really Living To Its Full Potential

Gangster movies have been a major component to American cinema for
quite some time. With established films like The Godfather series,
Scarface, among other films, sometimes it can be hard to produce a
quality modern day crime film. But Ben Affleck has made an attempt this
weekend with the movie Live by Night. Can Affleck's recent resurgence
revitalize the gang movie, or does his operation go belly up before it
gets started? Robbie K here with another review and as always
appreciate the read. LIKES: • Solid acting • Incredible Setting and Costumes • Very Detailed
Description of a mob risingSummary: Affleck's stoic, monotone, performances continue to find
footholds in a variety of parts, and his portrayal of a gangster with a
conscience is spot on. Although not the most emotionally dynamic
character, Affleck's tactics work in portraying a man struggling with
the trials at hand. Chris Messina as his sidekick has more of an edge
that helps offset the monotone delivery of the lead role. Other actors
do their job of crafting the seedy mob family, being cunning, ruthless,
or strong to accomplish their goals. If the acting doesn't sell the
gangster setting than the costumes and scenery will do the trick. Live
by Night uses the big budget of the film industry to recreate the
roaring 20s, complete with old fashioned zoot suits, classic car
models, and the nostalgic traditional models of high-end restaurants. I
felt I had traveled back in time in this flick, with only the high
definition cameras and a recognition of modern day fabric to shatter
the illusion. Finally, the other component that sells the crime theme
is the attention to detail of starting a crime syndicate. Most other
crime movies often have our character in an established family, but
Live By Night twists this concept and casts Affleck into raising a
satellite family in Florida. Much of the film is focuses on how he
establishes business contracts, allies, love, occasionally throwing in
some conflict resolution that brings a little excitement to the film. DISLIKES: • Slow pace • Awkward Summaries • Boring At times • Rushed
over endingSummary: Although some of my favorite mafia movies don't have action,
they at least have an engaging plot that is suspenseful. Not the case
for this movie. Live by Night is slow, often paying a little too much
attention to monotonous details for building the empire. The film tried
to build the suspense with their overdone explanations that promised
some heart crushing moments... only to wrap things up with a monologue
from Affleck describing what happened. These mundane, overlapping
comments did little for me other than decrease the run time of the
movie and I was disappointed at the lack of effort for drama. The
result for me was a very boring film not only in terms of action, but
in emotional suspense as well. If you look at the classics, the
storytellers built up tension that climaxed at those gut-wrenching
moments as a character was killed. However in this film, they seldom
came close to matching that suspense, the only exception being two
moments near the end of the film. And speaking of the ending… it felt
out of place for me. Live By nights "exciting" climax has a heated
battle that fits well into the theme of the movie, but finally relieves
the boring moments. Had they ended with the monologue after that it
would have been perfect. Yet, the movie didn't stop and added an extra
twenty minutes that summed things up, but in a manner that to me was
very simplistic, rushed, and lackluster. The VERDICT:Live by Night is a gangster movie that felt more like a video guide to
starting a bootlegging operation. It certainly has the look and feel of
a gangster movie, complete with family drama, but it lacks that edge
the mobster classics had. Outside of a few moments, this movie was a
little toned down for my tastes, and I didn't like the monologue
summaries as they robbed us of some exciting conclusions. Therefore,
this reviewer can't recommend this movie for the theater outside of the
look of the movie. My scores are:Crime Drama: 6.5 Movie Overall: 5.0
