3
It's like when an unknown Chinese manufacturer decided to make a fake iPhone

So today I went to the premiere of the long awaited new star wars
Episode 7. Here is a fast and short opinion: The movie blows really blows. Here is the more detailed opinion.The movie has no star wars feeling. None. No deep dialogs about the
force and almost no background about what happened in the period
between episode 6 and this one. The dialogs between Ray and Finn sound like two modern age teenagers
talking (first real dialogue between them, Finn asks Ray if she has a
boyfriend). Horrible.Then there is the First Order (successors of The Empire) the bad guys.
Their leader commander is the Sith wimp Kylo Ren who answers to a
extremely bad CGI drawn Supreme leader (really?) about whom the
audience doesn't get any information at all. Kylo Ren is an insecure teenager with anger issues. His character
destroys the sleek mysterious Sith presentation of the both prequel as
the original trilogy. This is really a bad thing. The main weapon of the First order is a death star on steroids. But the
way the weapon works is taken straight out of Star Trek. This is a
criminal offense. Han Solo and Chewbacca appeared in the movie absolutely out of nowhere.
It's like Abrams and Disney were desperate to throw them in there just
for nostalgia. Once again out of nowhere Ray figures out she has Jedi powers. The
first time it happens is when Luke Skywalker's (who as been explained
shortly decided abandon everyone and live in isolation in a place
unknown) light-saber suddenly possesses the ability to show her where
it's located in exactly the same way like bracelet of Anubis showed to
Evelyn it's location in the movie Mummy returns.Also the audience figures out later on that non-Jedi's also can fight
with light-sabers when Finn ( not a Jedi ) fight the wimpy Sith Kylo
Ren. It's like who needs Jedi's, give a light-saber to a regular Joe
and he will fight almost as good as a Jedi who had years of training. There is one scene near the ending that is so incredibly bad it just
makes you want to get up and leave the theater. It's a scene between
Han Solo and Kylo Ren. Every person who has more than 2 brain cells
will know what is going to happen. This scene is a direct spit in the
face to the bad-ass Han Solo we all know and love.Conclusion: Because Disney and Abrams decided not to include George Lucas in any
way this movie has no Star wars feel and no soul. It's like when an
unknown Chinese manufacturer decided to make a fake iPhone. They can
call it an iPhone as much as they want, but it isn't an iPhone.
