7
Chillingly bad science

This film is a dramatization of a real psychological experiment that
took place at the Stanford University in 1971. The motivation was to
study the dynamics of individuals who were arbitrarily placed into
roles as prisoners and guards at a simulated prison. Since none of the
study participants were actual criminals or correction officers, the
idea was to glean insight into the psychology of the power imbalance
that arises from the situation, as opposed to the people involved.Things famously degraded quickly and the experiment was terminated
after only six days. Multiple guards displayed sadistic traits and
performed acts of psychological and even (to a smaller degree) physical
torture, all overseen, permitted, and arguably encouraged by
"superintendent" Philip Zimbardo, the study's creator.The conditions the participants were exposed to were reprehensible, but
even worse is that ultimately this was simply bad science, making the
whole endeavor a cruel waste of time. The experiment lacked much of the
basic rigor required, as highlighted in the film by a verbatim
repetition of an actual conversation Mr. Zimbardo had with a colleague
who questioned some of the basic scientific methodologies being
utilized in the study.Zimbardo himself committed what I would consider borderline criminal
acts such as initially denying "prisoner" participants the option to
leave when requested (to instill in them the belief that their
situation was, in fact, real), which came frighteningly close to
converting the "study" into a criminal act of kidnapping in my opinion.Zimbardo explains this as him getting "to close" to the experiment, but
personally I'm not particularly sympathetic to that argument. When you
watch the actual clips from the study and read the notes, I'm more
inclined to think that Mr. Zambardo himself had a sadistic streak that
he failed to control for a time. Honestly, I think the man should have
faced criminal charges for his role in this fiasco.In the end, some good did come out of this experiment in that it
created a push for establishing standards and controls for
psychological experiments in the future.Despite knowing the actual outcome, I still felt anxious about the
fates of the young men involved, a testament to the power of the acting
and directing here. To me, this movie is a chilling and visceral
reminder of how easy it is to create conditions that foster cruelty and
dehumanization. A rewarding, if somewhat depressing, film to watch.
