8
Well Packed Action-Comedy-Consistency

Nice opening title by the way...FF6 have everything that a summer movie should. Fast packed action,
interlude comedy that makes us laugh, consistency, steady acting, and
not that many plot holes that could ruin the movie.First of all, after the movie started (about 10 minutes), my mind kept
thinking about this movie should have a sequel. The action scenes of
FF6 have a nice varieties and also an excellent climax graphic, cause
its going up all the way along with the movie plot (seriously, i think
the tank scene is great and after that it could be an anticlimax, but i
was wrong because the plane scene is absolutely amazing). And of course
besides the car showdown, there was this nice fighting scene all over
the place. For the comedy side, This movie have quite a nice jokes that serve
their purpose (as an intermission between action scene), and classy one
too. Take example at the skyline-charger joke, that's my favorite one
(since FF1). Also, Roman Pierce's stupidity, and few other jokes that
go well for the tone of the movie.What makes FF6 even greater is the consistency factor, and not just to
the scenes of this movie, but also to the prequel ones. Fast & Furious
6 shows that all of 5 movies before this one matters (yes, including FF
Tokyo Drift). They don't dump away people and proves that they still
exist in this saga's timeline (like Elena, and even Braga).Plot holes... yea, this movie has some. A little this and a little
that, but in my opinion, it doesn't matter. What did you expect should
be a blowing mindless (sort of) action movie, and you got that while
watching this movie. Sure it gets kinda boring in the middle, but i
assure you that it'll all paid off once you get to the peak of this
movie.To sum up, Fast & Furious 6 proves me something. After i watched Fast5
(where the post credit scene shows the picture of letty) and there's a
rumor that there'll be a sequel after this, part of me cannot help to
thinking skeptical. How the hell are they gonna make a movie that gonna
top this one (action-wise), and they just did. So, applause for this
movie cause it makes me happy... 8 of 10.*P.S. you might want to re-watch FF Tokyo Drift after watching this
movie
