10
Still an accurate portrait of many towns in America today

Weeks before I took the time to see Out of the Furnace on its opening
day today, I saw an interview with the cast where star Christian Bale
made a comment about how the script and the character really stuck with
him before he'd ever agreed to take the role. While I normally hate to
see a film based on something ANY of the actors involved have said
(because really, who WOULDN'T give their film a nice push to the
press?), I had a gut feeling I'd want to see this one. It's a good
thing I tend to go with my gut, because if you watch for two hours with
an open mind, Out of the Furnace is certainly filled with dilemmas
people across America STILL face on a daily basis -- and that alone is
why it will hit too close to home. It is why some people will say it is
"too" gritty, "too" depressing, "too" much of something. I'm a New Jersey native, and my state is filled with many towns that
are run down and haven't seen anything positive happen in them in
decades. A town not far from me lost its heart when a tea factory was
forced out and jobs outsourced to China in the 90s. Just across the
border, 20 minutes into Pennsylvania, is an old steel town (not the one
in the film) that drove workers out of their mills in the 80s, the old
blast furnaces still towering over the "south side" of town that is
dotted with row homes. If you've ever driven through Michigan, at least
a handful of cities there would paint the same picture as anything
you'll see in Out of the Furnace. In Indiana, the same. I point this
out because several moviegoers in the theater where I saw the film were
saying that Out of the Furnace paints an unrealistic portrait of the
"worst" parts of America, making them seem worse than they are. But
until people have lived that lifestyle, it's easy to say that it
doesn't still exist. What I appreciated about Furnace is that Cooper
had the guts to make a gritty film that points out that there are towns
filled with good people who can never get beyond their "hard times". Is it unrealistic, perhaps, to assume that bare-knuckle fighting rings
are organized nationwide? Perhaps. It doesn't mean, however, that there
aren't plenty of illegal activities happening at the hands of
"desperate" men (many of our nation's veterans are homeless, don't
forget). Cooper chose Braddock as a great setting for this film, and he
chose great actors to portray "everyman". And honestly, I see why he
waited for Christian Bale to come around to making this film; nobody
could have pulled off Russell Baze the way that Bale does -- with his
quiet desperation, his eyes telling you everything that is churning in
his gut, the weariness settled into his body making him sometimes
appear aged beyond his years. Where Bale brings a quietness to Russell,
Casey Affleck brings the loud emotive bursts and the scrappiness of his
youth to Rodney Baze, and the two work wonderfully in balancing the
"brotherhood" aspect of the film. While I fault Cooper for failing to
tell us more of the relationship between the two, I feel that both
actors worked hard to bring the familial bond to the forefront of the
story. There are several aspects to the storytelling that are to be admired.
For one, the juxtaposition between Russell out hunting while his
brother is being driven to what could potentially be his death match --
a "hunt" of his own -- was brilliant in its pacing. The same can be
said for the scene where we assume the "bad" guy (Woody Harrelson
taking a terrifying turn as the film's antagonist) is going to finally
be caught by the law enforcement swarming his home. And finally, the
bridge scene between Russell and Lena (Baze's girlfriend played
admiringly well by Zoe Saldana) is one that gives a heart to a film
that is otherwise dark and depressing. It's because of moments like
these that I was able to overlook the film's obvious flaws. There is
patchy storytelling (blame the script writers), but the actors all grab
hold of the material they've been given and work well with it despite
its shortcomings. What I ultimately applaud Out of the Furnace for is
the fact that these characters could still represent many people in
this country and throughout the world. How far would we ALL go, trying
so hard to be "good" day in and day out, waiting for a break, trying to
earn the extra dollar...before we got tired of the rest of the world
getting ahead without us, and we take matters into our own hands?Out of the Furnace poses this thought-provoking question and lets the
viewer see how you can go down either path. Everyone wants to say that
they'd still stay on the straight and narrow, but until you can put
yourselves into the shows of these characters, you just truly never
know. Ask yourself what you would do if Rodney Baze was YOUR brother?
How far would you go for family -- for a family member who had put his
own life on the line for this country? How far would you go in a town
where everything else had shut down around you? Cooper doesn't give us
the best film of the year with Out of the Furnace, but he and this cast
give you plenty to think about long after the credits roll.
