1
WOW, IMDb rating is a joke

I am so disgusted with this movie and its rating that I have decided to
sign up here for the first time and write my opinion. There is no way
this movie is a 7.0/10. Not even close and it never will be. If this is
a 7.0 then Salvation is a 14.0/10. James Cameron should be ashamed for
even entertaining the idea that this movie is good. He has made me
realize that everyone can be bought for the right amount. I hope he got
paid a lot of money to say "If you are a terminator fan, you will love
this movie", because he has lost a lot of respect with that statement.
Hope it was worth it James!I waited for this movie every day counting down as the days go by. I
went to see it with my wife and I felt sorry for her she had to sit
through the eye ball torture. I wanted to walk out a couple of times
after countless cheesy jokes and terrible acting but I didn't. I
thought I would stick through it because it has to get better until I
witnessed the helicopter scene. At that moment I realized that the
terminator franchise is nothing more than a childhood dream. Anyone who
rated this movie above 3 stars on here is either getting paid by
someone or 13 years old since after all it was a PG-13 movie.Terminator 1 was good. I rate 8/10.Terminator 2 was great. I rate 9/10.Terminator 3 was decent, hated the overly futuristic female T-X. Ending
was good and we finally see Judgement Day. I rate 6/10.Salvation was good once you got passed Bale's Batman voice. At least it
was getting into the future war and heading the right direction after
T3. No fancy robots, just cold steel cyborgs with one acceptable twist
(Marcus). The T600 was awesome. I rate 7/10.Than comes Genisys, a Saturday Night Live skit at best. Was this a
wannabe comedy or a terminator movie? We have a Kyle Reese that is
cocky and looks like he should be the Terminator. Probably worst acting
I have seen in a movie. We have John Connor that is some weird
combination of human/nano technology/robot/liquid metal that is so far
out there that it is stupid. Yes, stupid. We have the new Sarah which
is not so bad other than the weird interactions between her and Kyle.
It was awkward at best. We have Pops who is the terminator who is a
father figure and competes with Kyle for his "daughter's" approval. He
awkwardly smiles a lot and repeats the same punch lines over and over
as if we didn't get it the first 6 times. It is border line offensive
to average human intelligence. Add to that ridiculous scenes like the
helicopter chase towards the end which defies logic and I am ready to
question anyone's intelligence who rates this movie as anything above a
joke.Some people say "it was a fun summer flick, lighten up and just enjoy
it for the action". What action? The crap CGI all over and helicopters
from starwars? The T800s looked better in the originals. I wanted to
enjoy it and went in with an open mind not expecting much but I wasn't
prepared for what I actually witnessed. It was the worst summer flick I
have ever seen that has actually insulted me for wanting to watch it.
(if that's even possible) It was a joke and a mockery at best. It can't
be taken seriously even if you wanted to. It fails at being a
terminator movie. It fails at being a "true sequel to T1&T2". It fails
at being funny. It fails at having ground breaking CGI. If fails at
having a story. It fails at character development. It fails at having
good sound effects. The music is TERRIBLE! It even destroys the
prequels timelines which I don't care for really if it was good. It has
nothing going for it. I walked out of the theater dumbfounded at what I
have just watched. My wife laughed at me and said "this is what you
waited for all these months? WOW. Terminator 2 is still my favorite."
