1
If Fincher was looking to UNDO himself...he has succeeded.

I'm only writing this review because I noticed this appears in the top
3 of IMDb's "Top Movies of 2014" at the time of writing. This in itself
was enough to make me p*ss my trousers, but I then went on to read some
of the reviews, after which I completely soiled myself.I'm all for suspension of disbelief, especially when watching Hollywood
fare, but how is anyone buying this bullsh*t - and people are making
comparisons with Alfred Hitchcock!? It's as if the second half of the movie forgets the first half had
happened. Let's look at what unfolds:Psycho woman fakes own murder and plants enough clues around to
implicate her husband. All the clues are so contrived that, for a short
while, even the detective suspects all is not what it seems.Meanwhile psycho wife has skipped out of town and disguised herself by
dying her hair slightly less blonde and smacking herself in the cheek
with a hammer, presumably to look like some trailer trash victim of
domestic abuse and consequently giving her an excuse to wear Jackie
Onasis sunglasses. All of this is keenly noted by the perceptive woman
she moves next door to, yet despite watching her story on the news
every day, her actual identity completely illudes the observant
neighbour.Despite psycho woman's meticulous planning and care, everything
unravels when she accidentally drops a money belt (how does this
happen?) with all of her cash in it, whilst, wait for it, playing crazy
golf thus tempting said woman next door to rob her, which she does with
the aid of her hick boyfriend. Calculating psycho woman sits by and
does nothing at this stage. Instead choosing to call up an ex boyfriend
and potentially throwing her entire plan to the wall. Luckily (phew!)
her ex boyfriend is so obsessed with her (no-one knows why at this
stage, or even cares) that he puts her up in his lake house with
security cameras everywhere for her safety. He is quite happy for an
innocent man to be sentenced to death it appears, despite having a
visit from the guy in which he implies that there may be more to his
wife than meets the eye. He does have very expensive sheets though.Meanwhile, despite their best efforts, animators fail to make the Ben
Affleck model appear in any way emotional or human. Not even CGI has
any effect, so they just give up an go home. By now, no-one in the
audience cares and Ben is replaced with a peace of plasticine that was
left over when Tony Heart created Morph. Nobody, not even the
supporting actors, notice.Just when you think things couldn't become more contrived, psycho wife
ties a ribbon round her ankle and throws some wine down her top to
emulate the fact that she has been raped (?), or had a miscarriage, or
just, I don't know, "Was that her favourite top she threw wine over,
because she looks very upset in front of the porch camera." She then has what clearly appears to be (for the sake of the cameras),
consensual sex with her ex, before cutting his throat with a box cutter
and making a dramatic return to her husband, without so much as a call
to the police. Falling into her play-doh spouses arms, she is then
rushed to hospital, where she convinces local detectives and the FBI
that she was abducted and held as a prisoner, by her ex, this whole
time. Detectives and FBI suddenly suffer from complete amnesia and
forget entirely about the murder set up. If she was abducted by her ex
storming into the house and whacking her with a club, why does she have
no injuries, is she some kind of self healing salamander. She'd only
been gone for just over a week. Why did no'one notice this altercation,
or the ex-boyfriend appearing in the middle of the day - after all, the
neighbour noticed the door was open? Where did the several pints of
blood come from on the kitchen floor? Why was the lounge area staged?
Did the ex-boyfriend leave a slightly charred copy of her diary in her
husband's father's oven? Even window-putty Nick has the sense to ask
"Erm, how did she cut his throat if she was tied up all the time as she
claims?" "To which the uninquisitive police response is, wait for it,
"Can't you just be happy your wife is home?""Yes, of course, we should invite Bundy, Manson and the Wests around
and celebrate"It's good to know that all you need to do, to hoodwink the FBI is act
like a damsel in distress, wrap some rope around your wrists too
tightly, and re-enact a scene from Big Brother using a champagne bottle
for them to forget any evidence that may implicate you in murder or
conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. I'm sorry but even as some sort of metaphor about domestic bliss or
mass media, this film fails on so many levels. Total sh*t.
