10
A film for those who stupidly believe there's no smoke without fire.

Sometimes children lie.



Sometimes good people give in to hysteria, and lose all sense of 

reason.



Sometimes they destroy innocent lives.



The Hunt (aka Jagten) is the latest offering from Denmark that will 

knock you sideways. Forget the thrill of TV dramas The Killing, Borgen 

and The Bridge, Thomas Vinterberg's film is a shocking, harrowing 

experience that will affect you profoundly and will live in your mind 

for a very long time. The Hunt is for those who don't need to 'enjoy' a 

film to regard it as valid and who are not afraid to step into the 

darkness of the injustice and judgment of which we are all capable. 

More than that, it is a film for those who stupidly believe there is no 

smoke without fire.



Lucas (Mads Mikkelsen) is a lonely teacher, divorced from his wife, 

kept apart from his son and devoted to the young children in his care 

at the nursery and within the community. He is a genuinely good man who 

has earned the respect of his peers, the love of a new girlfriend and 

the trust of the children who leap out of hedges to wrestle him and be 

chased around the playground by him.



Klara (Annika Wedderkopp), the daughter of his best friend, Theo 

(Thomas Bo Larsen) has an innocent, childish crush on Lucas when two 

situations occur in quick succession. Firstly she is exposed to an 

explicit pornographic image and, secondly, Lucas gently chastises her 

for inappropriate behavior towards him. With a fertile imagination, 

childish indignation and no comprehension of the consequences, Klara 

makes an accusation against Lucas and his world implodes.



For only the fifth time so far this year, I believe I have witnessed a 

near-perfect film. The Hunt is complete due to the tight screenplay, 

the sensitivity of Vinterberg's direction and the performances from 

principal and peripheral actors alike that are always absorbing and 

frequently astounding.



Mikkelsen must certainly be the focal point of any review. His 

performance as Lucas causes the stomach to tighten and the back tingle 

as we wonder How would I react? In much the same way that Colin Firth's 

George crumpled when receiving the news of his partner's death in A 

Single Man, so Mikkelsen's Lucas is silently crushed as he is told that 

accusations have been made. Lucas suffers the physical and emotional 

wounds of slander and revenge for an act he cannot conceive and of 

which he has less knowledge than those who condemn and attack him.



Equally, both Larsen and Anne Louise Hassing as Klara's parents 

carefully unwrap the turmoil any parent would suffer upon hearing their 

young child has suffered sexual abuse. It is a challenge not to yell at 

the screen "Don't be so stupid," or to scream expletives at Grethe 

(Susse Wold) the head teacher who loses her grip on both duty and 

reason and germinates the hatred and judgment that follow. As Lucas' 

son, Marcus, Lasse Fogelstrøm gives a heartfelt performance segueing 

seamlessly from courage to hurt to desperation and anger and his 

distress is a warning to those given over to rumours.



The surprise, no, the absolute shock, with the casting is Wedderkopp. 

In an adult with twenty years experience on the big screen it would be 

a breathtaking performance; that this is the debut of a young child is 

staggering. She is entirely believable as the girl with the vivid 

imagination and understandable lack of foresight who is lead by 

over-enthusiastic adults and suffers her own punishment of confusion 

alone.



The tragedy within The Hunt is explicit and unavoidable. The external 

tragedy is that it will probably not feature on most To See lists 

because it is both foreign and that the explosions are emotional rather 

than physical. Although it is Denmark's entry for Best Film in a 

Foreign Language for the Oscars, I suspect both Mikkelsen and Vinterbeg 

will be completely overlooked in their own right as with the principals 

of Beasts of the Southern Wild. Thank goodness for the BAFTAS and Mark 

Kermode! The events depicted in The Hunt are utterly horrific. Don't 

sit in front of the screen expecting a light, easy, thought provoking 

flick. I emerged numb, angry, helpless and terrified. But for one 

careless or cruel comment, it could happen to me.



Or you.




