1
An enormous junk heap of illogic and nonsense

One of the most ridiculous spectacles of bad storytelling I have ever 

seen in my entire life.



"Gone Girl" gets its title I think, from the fact that she was supposed 

to be done away with (murdered and disposed of) but is really "gone" 

psychologically—she is a pure psychopath.



The movie tries to tell you that she is highly intelligent, and 

meticulously plans to fake her own murder and frame her husband for it.



Here's the pathetic execution of her plan:



1. he leaves the house one morning, and she springs into action. 



2. she breaks the glass coffee table, pours about a half quart of her 

own blood in one puddle, in front of the kitchen sink. That much blood 

from a violent attack would be all over the room. 



3. she flees, leaving the front door open. 



4. A nosy neighbor notices the door ajar and calls the husband (somehow 

the neighbor knows exactly where he is.) But no one saw the wife leave.



5. The husband comes home. He has not a scratch on him. 



6. he is totally co-operative with the police. 



7. They eventually find her diary In a wood stove at the husbands 

father's house. The wood stove door is ajar and the diary is only 

partially burned; it really makes you wonder how that played out—that 

the husband put the diary in there to burn but just left it singed, all 

that work, cleaning up the blood at home, but not to burn the book, as 

if he needed to make a special trip to his dad's house to dispose of a 

stupid book. and the only thing incriminating that she wrote was on one 

page which he could've simply torn out. 



8. When the wife runs away, she only changes her appearance slightly 

and then, instead of secluding herself, she makes friends with some 

low-lifes, with whom she sits and watches her story unfold on TV. 



9. she murders the Neil Harris character in an attempt to switch the 

blame to him. That would then imply he was the one that drained so much 

blood from her back at her home, he cleaned it up and he put her diary 

in the wood stove (?!) 



His car wasn't seen at her house. 



He then kept her a prisoner, starved and raped her.Yet she found the 

opportunity and strength to kill him, but didn't call the police from 

his house to come rescue her. rather she jumps in his car and drives 

all the way home. 



10. upon returning home she has no wounds consistent with the 

bloodletting at her original house or at the hands of her alleged 

kidnapper. 



11. There is no visit to or investigation of the alleged kidnapping 

crime scene—house on the lake.



12. The hospital sends her home in a nurses uniform, underneath which 

she is still caked in blood.



This movie is just about the lamest piece of S**** I have ever seen.
