7
I like it, but apparently not as much as most folks.

Currently, "Frozen" has a very high IMDb score of 8.1. I was actually
surprised by this, as I did enjoy the film but though it had some plot
problems that prevented it from being among Disney's best in recent
years. Apparently, other folks don't agree with me.The film is supposedly based on Han Christian Andersen's story "The
Snow Queen", however little of the finished film seems to be related to
this story...very little. This isn't really a criticism--I am just
trying to clarify the film a bit.The story is about two sisters--one who eventually becomes queen and
one who is her younger sister, a princess. However, the Queen, Elsa
(Idina Menzel), has a huge problem that is never really explained in
the film--she has magical powers to make things frozen as well as to
create snow. While this seems great, it's also a dangerous power and
one she cannot fully control--and she COULD accidentally kill someone.
Once she becomes queen, the power is exposed--and she disappears into
the mountains to live life apart from others.The younger sister, Anna (Kristen Bell), decides to do what any
responsible lady would do in this situation--abandon her kingdom and
give control of it to an almost complete stranger! Why she didn't just
send some of her people out to find Elsa is beyond me. Regardless,
along the way she meets a guy who is to become an obvious love interest
and together they seek out Elsa and try to bring her back to the
kingdom. After all, since Elsa's departure, the place has been bathed
in perpetual winter! The film is glorious to watch--particularly on the big screen. The CGI
is absolutely lovely as are the character designs. However, it's a film
that looks great but whose story is less than stellar. Part of it is
because the characters sometimes do inexplicable things (mentioned
above), part of it is because parts of the plot are missing (such as
explaining how everyone LOVED the interim leader yet hated him
later--after he'd actually done a good job in regard to the people as
well as why everyone suddenly hated the guy from Weaseltown) and part
of it is because there were too many distractions when the main thrust
SHOULD have been the relationship between the sisters (the reindeer and
guys got in the way). Still, it is worth seeing--especially if you
don't spend too much time thinking through the plot. Plus, many might
enjoy the more Broadway style of the music, as Idina Menzel really
pours it on when she sings (as do the rest, though she clearly
overshadows them with her magnificent singing).
