9
A shocking picture of injustice and paranoia

According to English Professor Jack Lynch, "Lies, once they are
accepted as true, take on a life of their own, one that lasts long
after the original falsehoods have been exposed." The power of the
continued acceptance of lies is reflected in Thomas Vinterberg's The
Hunt, the disturbing story of the false accusation of a kindergarten
teacher of sexual abuse. It is an accusation that reveals the sordid
underbelly of a small town, hidden beneath the veneer of middle-class
civility. Written by Vinterberg and Tobias Lindholm, The Hunt is a
thought-provoking drama that makes us aware both of the vigilance
needed to protect our children from predators, and of the crucial
importance of following the precept that an individual is innocent
until proved guilty in a court of law.Mads Mikkelsen is Lucas, is a caring kindergarten teacher who has been
recently divorced and shares custody of his teenage son, Marcus (Lasse
Fogelstrom). He has a good relationship with his students, especially
six-year-old Klara (Annika Wedderkopp), the daughter of his best friend
Theo (Thomas Bo Larsen) and his wife Agnes (Anne Louise Hassing). Lucas
walks her home from school when her parents are late in picking her up
and she obviously likes him very much. In class one day, Klara kisses
Lucas on the lips but is admonished by him that kissing on the lips is
only for mum and dad. Sparked by seeing images on her bother's iPod,
she tells kindergarten head Grethe (Susse Wold) that she doesn't like
Lucas anymore because he has a "weenie." When Grethe tells her that
this is normal because every man has one, Klara tells her that his was
"straight and pointed." The incident is forgotten about for a few days
until Grethe realizes that "children never lie", and begins questioning
the little girl again, coming to the decision that sexual abuse has
occurred and that some action must be taken. Though Klara now says that
she cannot remember, her parents attribute her loss of memory to trying
to forget what is uncomfortable. Calling a group of parents together,
Grethe accuses Lucas before the parents, telling them the signs to
watch out for in their own children. Slowly, the word gets around of
widespread abuse at the school, though Lucas remains in the dark
because Grethe refuses to give him any details about the accusations.Word spreads by hearsay, gossip, and innuendo as a child psychologist,
teachers, parents, and eventually the police are brought in, but no
through investigation is ever conducted. Klara is questioned again
(questions taken directly from the transcripts of actual police cases)
and it is obvious she is a confused little girl who tells the adults
what they want to hear. Vinterberg ratchets up the tension and we sense
the world closing in on the embattled teacher. Though Lucas' male
friends in the community have a long-lasting bond, they break the ties
of their close-knit group and turn against one of their own.Lucas and Marcus are denied the right to shop in the local market even
to the point of threats and violence, his best friend Theo rejects him,
and even his girlfriend Nadja (Alkexandra Rapaport) asks him if he's
insane or sick. Lucas' only friend is Marcus' godfather, Bruun (Lars
Ranthe), who soothes his friend's psyche with black humor. After Lucas
is arrested, a preliminary hearing rules that there is not enough
evidence to hold him and he is released, but this does not stop the
violence. A rock is tossed through his window and neighborhood thugs
take out their aggression on his dog Fanny.The Hunt is a harrowing experience that is not an easy film to watch,
especially if the viewer has had past experience with the subject. The
exceptional performances, however, make it easier to appreciate. They
are not only from Mikkelson who won Best Actor at Cannes, but also from
Fogelstrom as Lucas' loving and supportive son, Ranthe who keeps Lucas
afloat, and especially that of seven-year-old actress Annika Wedderkopp
who is so angelic that we never turn against her even though we know
she is lying. While some critics bemoan the fact that this kind of
story has been told before, it has never been told like this, building
with inexorable power from the warmth of small-town conviviality to a
shocking picture of injustice and paranoia that hits us right in the
solar plexus.
