3
Hollywood, please, give real screenwriters a chance!

One would think that a top notch producer-duo like Anthony Bregman and
Gary Goetzman, an amazing cinematographer like Matthew Libatique, an
unbelievable composer like Danny Elfman, two talented editors like Lisa
Lassek and Franklin Peterson, and incredible actors like Tom Hanks and
Emma Watson would guarantee a great film, right? -- Wrong... this is
why the screenplay is so important. To be completely fair, I haven't
read David Eggers' novel, so I don't know if it's good or not, but if
we base that judgement on the film, it sure as hell doesn't seem like
it.Why is the script so poorly written? The first big problem is that we
don't know our protagonist's intent or obstacle. We have no idea what
she wants, what she's doing to get it, or what stands in her way. This
is at the top of every screen writing seminar, course, book, or
principle list that you can find. If this is not clear within the first
10 to 12 pages of your script, then don't even bother filming it.We do know that she dislikes her job and that she has a sick father
whom she loves. But she's not doing anything to help her dad, and she's
not looking for a different job either. She does go kayaking though,
so... good for her! The job offer (inciting incident) that gets her to
embark onto a promised adventure, comes in a phone call from a friend.
A phone call that takes our protagonist by surprise. So, to make
matters even worse, our main character is completely reactive. Things
happen to her, she doesn't make them happen, which makes her dull and
boring -- Something one would think could be a big decision-changer for
actors like Emma Watson to accept a role in a film at this point of her
career. But hey, maybe not! Our protagonist agrees to the interview (a
very weird one that includes picking between her favorite Beatle and
reacting to an inappropriate invitation to go out with her interviewer)
and she gets the job! And now we embark onto the adventure.At first, everything is very expository. Tom Hanks' character is
introduced as a quite literal Steve Jobs-like company manager, who
believes in technology's power to help us know everything about
everyone in the world, basically. Then, an opportunity to help her
father reveals to our protagonist by, again, the same friend who
offered her the interview in the first place. So, our protagonist is
yet again reacting to what is happening to her.To make matters worse, what pushes her (very late so) to make her first
big decision, is that she inadvertently decides to take a kayaking trip
in the middle of the night, and go sailing onto the darkness with no
life-vest (or even a flashlight for that matter), for a ridiculous
nocturnal, meditative promenade (because, you know, YOLO). This really
bizarre, nonsensical decision is what propels her to take action with
Tom Hanks' character and take an active part of the
all-time-surveilling-technology of the Circle. Then the story turns
into a modern era "Truman Show" without the innovative factor of
reality television, and with an improbable audience who is
all-love-and-no-hate for our always innocent Mae Holland. (Seriously,
this Utopia world presents no haters in the social media.) The
technology gets so big, they challenge themselves to find any person in
the world, with the help of their hundreds of millions of subscribers.
The first person they challenge their users to find is an outlaw
murderer woman. She is found within 10 minutes, and guess what? These
hundreds of millions of users find her without a shred of mistakes. No
one mistakes another woman for her, there are no complications, and her
capture is done by a police officer with calm and accuracy. Let us just
say that plausibility is not this film's strongest suit.The next person they challenge their users to find is an ordinary
person who's not a part of the Circle's network, and who's a former
friend of our protagonist. What happens next is simply too stupid to
face, because people actually chase for this guy down a highway in the
mountains and get him killed in live-feed broadcasting. And what's even
worse: there are no consequences to his death. Instead, what happens is
that Mae finally "opens her eyes" to the fact that what the Circle is
doing is wrong (duh!) and that violating people's privacy could get
them killed (oops!). And so, she designs a trap to expose the people
behind the Circle and their true intentions (evil laugh). And guess
what? SHE DOES IT! She exposes them, all their conversations, their
plans, all their private correspondence, all of it! And do you know
what they were hiding? -- Neither do I, because the screenwriter forgot
to tell us, I guess... Or maybe he did write it but the editor cut that
part out... or maybe the director forgot to film that part... or maybe
it's not even in the original novel... who knows? And at this point,
frankly my dear... who gives a damn? Yes, the antagonist played by Tom
Hanks is a uni-dimensional character who we pretty much know nothing
about. He has no intent either, no obstacles along the way, and no
clear agenda at all. How they got Tom Hanks to act in this film, is
just a complete mystery.The end of the film is as nonsensical as the rest of it. Mae goes on
yet another one of her kayaking sails -- but wait a minute, this time
she's not alone. She's surrounded by drones who are watching "over"
her... because, you know, that is what this was all about...Please, please, Tom, Emma, Anthony, Gary, Danny, Matthew, Hollywood,
the studios, THE AUDIENCE... give some real screenwriter a chance. We
promise, we won't let you down.Cheers from Mexico.Sincerely, Carlos Algara
