8
Don't say goodbye to this film

A.A. Milne's Winnie the Pooh stories captivated me as a child and they
are still wonderful stories through young adult eyes. The stories
epitomise childhood innocence, the atmosphere is enough to enchant
everybody regardless of gender and age and the characters are some of
the most charming in children's literature (Disney's treatment of them
as some of their most famous ever creations is every bit as special).Hearing that there was a biographical drama based on the man, his life
and his family, the desire to see 'Goodbye Christopher Robin' was
overwhelming. Was not disappointed at all after seeing it today, it was
a lovely biographical drama even with Milne's life not being what one
would expect reading the stories or being familiar with the timeless
characters, his dark and troubled personal life being the anti-thesis
of the innocent and charming world created in his Winnie the Pooh
stories. That was actually what was so fascinating about 'Goodbye
Christopher Robin'.'Goodbye Christopher Robin' in biographical terms fascinates and
illuminates. But the film fares even better judging it as a film on its
own merits, on this front it is a lovely very good film that is neither
the potentially cutesy cookie-cutter film one might think it would be
reading the title or the overly dark and joyless one that one would
fear upon looking up what the film is about. It's more layered than
either.The film looks great for starters. The beautiful cinematography, with
its vibrant hues, really brings the film to life in a way that reminds
one of how a story book would. The settings and costumes are both
sumptuous and vivid, making the viewer feel like they've been
transported in time to that period and being part of it. Carter
Burwell's string-heavy score is luscious and stirring in its elegance.
Both combined creates a really nostalgic quality that could have been
at odds at the dark portrayal of Milne's and his family's personal life
but it's an effective contrast.When it comes to the writing, 'Goodbye Christopher Robin' is very
intelligently and thoughtfully written and, considering that it has a
subject matter where it is so easy to go heavy-handed and be too much
of one tone, has evidence of sensitivity and nuance with touches of
bitter irony in how such a happy childhood depicted in the stories was
very much a miserable one in real life. The nods and references to
Milne's work are clever and affectionate, enough to make one's eyes
well up with aching nostalgia. The story is cohesive and never feels
like it's jumping around too much or lacking momentum, it also has a
lot of heart and affecting poignancy in how Christopher tries to get
his father to loosen up and the interaction with his nanny (along with
Christopher the warmest and most sympathetic character in 'Goodbye
Christopher Robin').Direction lets the story to breathe but doesn't fail in giving it
momentum. The performances are near-uniformly strong. The central
character in fact is Christopher Robin himself, and while Alex Lawther
does very well with teenage Christopher the star here is Will Tilston,
who gives a touching and far more layered performance than one would
think he was capable of. Instead of being overly-cute, he evokes tears
of both playful joy and vulnerable sadness and the film particularly
comes alive with the father/son relationship.As Milne, Domhnall Gleeson is excellent, whether one feels empathy for
him is another story but he portrays Milne with an appropriately
straight back and reserve and he is every inch the troubled figure. The
levity of the story comes in the nanny character played by Kelly
McDonald, the warmth and charm of her portrayal is much needed and her
common sense invaluable.By all means, 'Goodbye Christopher Robin' is not without short-comings.
The biggest one being the one-dimensional and
without-redeeming-qualities character writing for Daphne which
consequently makes Margot Robbie portray her far too firmly and coldly,
even in the subject matter these approaches didn't gel.Short-coming number two is not buying and being put off somewhat by
Milne and Daphne's far too casual, uncaring even, attitude for
Christopher's welfare. This is something that makes one endear to them
even less.Overall, lovely, moving film. 8/10 Bethany Cox
