3
The train ride from hell: no stops, no upgrades

Third class on a train never felt so bad. No private rooms or showers,
and just one item on the menu. Don't even think about filing a
complaint with the conductor's black-clad goon squad; they don't take
kindly to dissent. But that's not the worst of it: you'll never get off
this train, since it comprises the only habitable environment left on
earth after global warming countermeasures triggered a new ice age.While the setting of Bong Joon-ho's film incorporates a few original
ideas, much will seem familiar to the post-apocalyptic film audience.
Society is divided between the first class minority, with their fine
tailors and cocktail parties, and the downtrodden masses, with little
more than the rags on their backs they can call their own. Of course,
revolution is in order, but the plan for regicide will require a trip
down the length of the train, with a few bloody battles and the
discovery of what life is really like "on the other side" filling in
the remainder of the story.Class struggle is naturally the topic of so many sci-fi films, from
classics like "Fahrenheit 451" and "1984" to contemporary derivatives
such as "District 9" and "Elysium." So taking up such a topic is a
little like opening a hamburger joint -- you really have to do it well,
and ideally provide your own twist, to have any hope of impressing your
clients.Unfortunately "Snowpiercer" follows the tried-and-true formulas a
little too closely to inspire, and it's hard not to feel like we've
been served a Big Mac of a film. There are caricatures, not characters:
the hero who doubts himself, the naive sidekick who worships his idol,
the wise octogenarian guiding the flock. There are even a couple of
video-game references thrown in for the kids in the forms of a martial
arts expert and the "boss" who comes back from the dead. We share in
the characters' wonder about the extravagant lives of passengers in the
front cars, but little else drives the plot. The script reads like
something written by a non-native speaker, quite honestly, and, as with
other films that aspire to the demands of an international box office,
the writers settle for brevity, simplicity, and imitation where
tactfulness and originality were called for.I didn't see Chris Evans in "Captain America," but I imagine that your
appraisal of his acting in that movie might go a long way in
determining whether you like his role in this one. In my mind, Evans
does little more in "Snowpiercer" than dutifully recite his lines and
chop down some bad guys, but judging from box office returns these
days, that's not necessarily a bad thing.For those who want to step outside the boundaries of Hollywood, I
heartily recommend you skip this film in favor of Bong's earlier Korean
works, especially "Barking Dogs Never Bite," "Memories of Murder," and
"Mother." Those films are wonderfully crafted windows onto Korean
society that touch upon real divides between class and generation
instead of the roughly hewn metaphors we endure in "Snowpiercer."
