8
Depending on what you look for in a film you could either consider to be an artwork or a let down

I went into the movie theater looking forward to this film. Expecting
something along the likes of Drive, which was a great cinematic
experience in my opinion, I got to see something which had similarities
in execution and style but turned out to be a very different movie from
the latter. Without saying too much I will say that this will be one of the
weirdest movie experiences you will ever get. It has the same type of
artwork that made Drive such a great accomplishment but it takes it a
little further. This is done to a point where you can either choose to
relate to its ruthlessness and brutality ( it is an extremely violent
film) or discard it for it. The setting and scenes are played out
beautifully but the pacing feels off as it builds up really slow and
never gains pace throughout the showing. At times you feel like you are
witnessing scenes from a wonderfully shot masterpiece, yet the next
moment it can be as if these scenes add up to nothing substantial. To
me it feels as if the director has been overly ambitious and at
particular moments he managed to make it work but overall it doesn't
hit home. It tries so hard to be memorable and refreshing that at times
it turns into a parody of itself. This being said I still enjoyed it for what it was and though the
brutality and violence won't be for anyone to be appreciated ( it gets
very raunchy)it's an experience I'm glad I did not miss out on. Some
other people in the theater where less forgiving ( no pun intended) and
left it running for the exit. It's not as accessible as you would want
it to be, and it's not as great as it feels it could have been but if
you want to watch a film you won't be able to wrap your head around
entirely for the next few days I'd say: give it a shot. You might find
it worth your while. I certainly found it to be so. A decent piece of
artwork or a let down? Depending on what you look for in a film you can
only consider it to be one or the other.
