8
A Moving Film That Makes Me Think About My Own Family and What's Important

If I stay is a beautiful, moving film about a teenage girl and the life
or death decision she must make. Mia is a teenage girl that has a
wonderful, quirky family, a boyfriend who loves her to pieces, and a
bright, ambitious future. But, all of that changes when she and her
family are in a fatal car accident. While Mia's body is in a coma, her
mind journeys back to all of her memories, triumphs, heart breaks and
future. She has to make the decision on whether or not to fight and
stay alive, or let go and leave this world. Will Mia stay? I love this movie. It made me laugh, cry and it helped me to see all of
the good in my own life that I should cherish, because you never know
when it could all change. The cinematography is beautiful. Most of the
film is filled with memories that Mia has and the way they are
portrayed is very neat. The music is also beautiful. Mia is a cellist
and a lot of the film focuses on her dreams of becoming a successful
musician, so the film is filled with beautiful classical music. My Favorite character is Mia played by Chloe Moretz. This film shows so
many aspects of Mia's life, so it's easy to find something to relate
to. She has a great passion for playing the cello and dedicates most of
her life to it. She has difficulties relating to her parents and even
her boyfriend since their musicals tastes are far more edgy than hers.
She has to face her insane loss and she has to choose between many
different things in life. There's something about her life that I think
anyone can relate to, so she's a wonderful character. Chloe does a
wonderful job portraying everything she's going through and she moved
me to tears many times.This film makes me think about my own family and everything I would do
for them. It makes me think of my life and all the joys and sorrows
I've faced. There was not a dry eye in the audience because this film
provokes unique memories for every individual. I felt especially
connected to Mia's family because I too have a younger brother and am
very close with my parents, so I was very touched by Mia's situation. I give this film 4 out of 5 stars and recommend it for ages 13 to 18
because of the intense emotions and mature content. Make sure you check
out If I Stay in theaters August 22nd.Reviewed by Raven D., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic.
