6
A passable romantic comedy

There are risks when romantic comedy is injected with "truth." Too
little, and it feels like a desperate attempt to give the film
credibility. Too much and it starts to feel uncomfortable as the comedy
is buried in what appear to be a string of life lessons. The Five-Year
Engagement tries to find a balance between comedy and truth and after a
bit over two hours, almost succeeds.That's not to say the film is bad. It's far from it, especially
compared to what usually passes for a romantic comedy these days. Its
leads (Emily Blunt and Jason Segel) have a surprising, easy chemistry
and director Nicholas Stoller (who co-wrote with Segel) uses the
talented supporting cast to add new perspective and layers to what is a
pretty straightforward story.Violet (Blunt) is a post-doctorate student. Tom (Segel) is a rising
star of a chef in San Francisco. They get engaged on their first
anniversary and while most romantic comedies would end here, The
Five-Year Engagement does something that romantic comedies fail to do -
showing what happens after the "happy ending." In doing so, we get to
see every crack, seam and bump in their relationship, from Tom's
resentment at leaving his dream job behind to follow Violet after she
receives a fellowship at the University of Michigan, to Violet's
increasing frustration at how Tom changes during his relocation.It's a credit to Segel and Stoller that the situations that arise do so
organically and don't feel forced in for shock value, and when things
start to deteroriate, we not only see it coming, we solemnly nod
because it is inevitable.The film has issues, though, and they almost capsize the film. The most
glaring one is the running time. The film clocks in at a bit over two
hours, and you feel every grueling minute of it. The pacing and editing
are a near disaster and at times, watching feels more like a chore than
a good time. This is partially because the film, while billed as a
romantic comedy, is only funny in spurts. The serious 'truths' of being
in a relationship take center stage, which is in itself not a bad
thing, but in a comedy, it really drags the film down.The ending is typical rom-com schmaltz, though, as if the filmmakers
snapped out of their malaise, thought "hey, aren't we making a comedy?"
and wisely ended the film on an acceptably quirky note.In the end, The Five-Year Engagement is serviceable entertainment, but
could have been a lot more had they been able to strike the delicate
balance they were trying for.Daniel FilmPulse.net
