8
A cute and clever satire of the famous tale.

I do find it ironic that Tim Burton remade his older short film
"Frankenweenie". For those that don't know, Burton started his career
as an animator at the Disney studio and made a half an hour live action
short film of the same name in 1984. The executives at Disney hated the
short thinking it was too scary and fired him from the company. Burton
later got hired as a director by Warner Bros. the following year and
the rest is history.  Almost thirty years later, Burton decided to
expand his original story into a stop motion animated movie. How were
the results you may ask? Well, here's my synopsis.The film is essentially a different retelling of Mary Shelly's novel. A
young boy named Victor Frankenstein (Charlie Tahan) is living a happy
life with his parents (Catherine O'Hara and Martin Short) and of
course, his dog Sparky in the town of New Holland. His happiness,
however, is cut short when Sparky is accidentally struck by a car and
killed. Victor becomes depressed and starts wishing for his dog back
when he gets an idea. After his science teacher (Martin Landau) shows
him the science of electricity on dead frogs, Victor builds a crazy
invention in the attic to successfully bring Sparky back to life. After
realizing what he's done, one of his pupils named Edgar (Atticus
Shaffer) blackmails Victor into showing him how the process works which
results in a chaos that should be seen to believed. I'd rather not give
anymore details.There are things that I think that the film did better than the
original short film. I liked how they gave more personality to Sparky
to make the audience sympathize with him more. I also really enjoyed
the details they included in the original in this film. But by far, the
best part of the movie was the climax which was so insane and crazy
that it really made me laugh. Even Burton reusing actors from his
previous films like O'Hara, Landau, and Winona Ryder was also a
welcoming addition.The animation once again, is great. I love how it
was shot in black and white to add to the comedy and also really liked
the crazy city they designed for this world. However, I did find the
character's designs a little too similar to the ones from "Corpse
Bride" considering that most of the crew that worked on that film also
worked on this one as well. Speaking of the characters, I really
enjoyed them as well. The fact that some of them even looked like the
characters from the 1931 original film was also pretty funny. However,
the film does have flaws. I do think that some of the emotional moments
could have been handled a little better, and some of the scenes were a
little pointless, particularly one involving the science teacher. But,
I digress."Frankenweenie" might not be one of Burton's best stop motion films,
but I think it's still a pretty good movie in general. I has a pretty
funny story, some great animation, and some funny characters. I think
the film may have been one of Burton's best film had some of the scenes
were handled a little better, but I think the film had enough charm and
humor for me to give it fair recommendation.
