10
Wow. Just wow!

This is my first review on here, and I was so blown away by this film
that I just had to come on here right after viewing it to share my
experience! First off, all I can say is WOW! My heart is still racing
and I still have tears in my eyes (and I honestly RARELY cry in
response to any film)! The characters are so well-developed and right
from the beginning (and literally to the very LAST moment of the film)
I genuinely felt for these characters and felt like I was actually with
them, experiencing a huge range of emotions from fear to sadness to
even some funny moments, all which are very sincere and portrayed by
top- notch acting. I'm so tired of all the bad, cheesy, cheap movies on
Netflix, but after reading so many great reviews of this film I decided
to give it a try - and boy am I impressed! This is not your typical
zombie film - Hollywood, please take note of this - THIS IS HOW A
ZOMBIE MOVIE should be! It explores so much more than just "zombies" -
it shows what is at the core of humanity and society; it explores
ethics and what people will do in a crisis and to fight til the end to
survive - all without going too deep or being too corny. The
cinematography is incredible and the acting is really what blew me away
- especially the little girl - I admit she won my heart and I was
crying along with her at the end when her father sacrifices himself for
her and the pregnant woman. If a film can truly make its audience care
so much for its characters like this film does (kudos to the
director!), it ups the tension even more and we feel a true connection
to these characters - WOW! That is a RARE but fabulous thing! Please
watch this movie - even people who don't like "zombie" movies will love
it - perfect mix of horror, drama, and suspense! I love how the
director used a very claustrophobic atmosphere and whittled it down to
being even more claustrophobic - amazing! You will not be disappointed!
I was glued to the screen the entire time while watching this! The best
zombie movie ever - and don't let the subtitles turn you off - it is
not overly dialogue heavy and the subtitles do not distract from the
film! What a thrill ride! I'm still on the edge of my seat! So
impressive, especially it being a foreign film - that might turn some
people off but give it a try - you will not be disappointed! HIGHLY
RECOMMENDED! I'm a huge horror junkie and it is a rare thing to have a
horror film affect me so much - but this is more than just a "horror"
film - it connects its audience with its characters in such a way that
you actually feel like you are on this train to Busan right along with
them! I can honestly say that I felt cramped, claustrophobic, and on
the edge of my seat the entire time watching this (and I admit I LOVED
it! What a ride)! I'm just so overly happy that I finally found an
amazing film on Netflix! "Train to Busan" is by far the best film I've
seen this past year! Simply blown away. :-D
