5
Schwarzenegger delivers a rare dark performance in this extremely violent but ponderous cop thriller.

From TRAINING DAY (2001), DARK BLUE (2002), HARSH TIMES (2005), STREET
KINGS (2008) and END OF WATCH (2012) at which he either writes, directs
or doing both duties, David Ayer has crafted quite a career for himself
as the go-to guy when comes to movie that explores the dark side of a
law enforcement. This year is no different as Ayer explores the same
territory again with SABOTAGE. But what's really interesting about his
latest effort is his first-time collaboration with the former '80s and
'90s king of big action icon Arnold Schwarzenegger playing the kind of
role unlike anything fans have seen him before... well, at least not
since 1984's THE TERMINATOR or to certain extent, 1997's BATMAN AND
ROBIN.WHAT IS IT ALL ABOUT?Following a successful drug raid to steal US$10 million from the
cartel's money, John "Breacher" Wharton (Arnold Schwarzenegger) and his
rugged team of undercover DEA task force -- James "Monster" Murray (Sam
Worthington) and wife Lizzy (Mireille Enos), Joe "Grinder" Phillips
(Joe Manganiello), Julius "Sugar" Edmonds (Terrence Howard), Eddie
"Neck" Jordan (Josh Holloway), Tom "Pyro" Roberts (Max Martini), and
Bryce "Tripod" McNeely (Kevin Vance) -- are happy to collect it later
where they hide it in the sewer pipes. However, they return to discover
that the drug money has gone missing. They are eventually held for
investigation and everyone ends up suspended from duty. But after the
authorities fail to land hard evidence against them, their superior
(Martin Donovan) put them back into action. Then, one by one from
Breacher's team members ends up dead in gory fashion. While trying to
find out the culprit, Breacher is subsequently working with homicide
investigator Caroline Brentwood (Olivia Williams) and realizes that the
murders as well as the stolen drug money is actually involving one of
them.THE GOOD STUFFAs with other Ayer's movies, the action is brutal and gripping enough
to capture your attention. Together with cinematographer Bruce
McCleery, Ayer also manages to create some creative shots including the
one where he utilizes small digital cameras from the tip of a gun
barrel's point-of-view during a shootout.The overall cast here is engaging, with Schwarzenegger gives a daring
performance as the cigar-chomping John "Breacher" Wharton with a dark
past. It's certainly nice to see him willing enough to change his usual
larger-than-life action image for something radically different. As the
emotionally-confused and relentless Caroline Brentwood, Olivia Williams
plays her role with enough gravitas to stand out on her own. The rest
of the supporting actors, including Sam Worthington (sporting a shaved
head and braided goatee) and Joe Manganiello (looking good with a
cornrow hairstyle), are equally adequate with their respective roles
but it was Mireille Enos who steals the show in SABOTAGE. Here, Enos
brings an uncompromisingly fearless performance as the tortured Lizzy
who is addicted to drugs.MOST MEMORABLE MOMENT(S)For all the blood, sex and profanities that showcased throughout the
movie, I can't singled out a moment worth placing here.THE BAD STUFFIt's a pity that the story here is major disappointment. Written by
David Ayer and Skip Woods, SABOTAGE does look promising with a nifty
concept that mixes Ayer's trademark gritty cop thriller with Agatha
Christie-like whodunit structure (particularly her famous novel of And
Then There Were None). However, the execution is rather poor or should
I say, lazily constructed, as the whodunit doesn't look interesting at
all. And worst, the story drags a lot throughout the movie.As exceptionally good as Schwarzenegger has put into his character,
there's a nagging feeling that he looks wooden when he is required to
deliver more stilted dialogues than usual. As the soft-spoken Sugar,
Terrence Howard does little to make his performance worthwhile in the
movie.As much as Ayer loves to showcase a lot of grits in his movie, his
penchant for shaky camera-work feels rather annoying, particularly when
he loves to do a lot of tight close-ups. Another flaw here is Ayer's
over-the-top display of gore and violence that somehow works better for
a hardcore horror movie than a gritty cop thriller.FINAL WORDSWhile SABOTAGE is far from both Ayer's and Schwarzenegger's best
efforts, the movie remains quite a jolting cinematic experience.
