8
You either like it or you don't

An interesting film.Straight off the bat you can tell it has a huge appeal to the male
demographic lol, but if you just want to see this for the partying,
boobs, bikinis, and women.. well that stuff is definitely there but
you'll probably be bored by the 30-minute mark and want to stop
watching (unless you're into watching all that alcohol-drenched
grinding chugfest). I have to say it started off pretty slow and
boring, and the story only really starts to pick up after you've
watched halfway through. Spring Breakers is labeled as a comedy/drama,
and even though I kinda smiled at a few parts, it really wasn't a
comedy. It was more of a dark/artistic drama. So if you're thinking of
watching it for the laughs, I'd reconsider if I were you!For those of you who haven't seen it, all I have to say is that it's a
bizarre movie which, if you can make yourself look past the 'shallow'
part of the film and accept that yes, it does seem to glorify a bunch
of skin-clad women, drugs, guns, gangsters, the 'American Dream' (which
is essentially what its whole premise is built around), then you'll be
able to see a lot more in the story in terms of a message or even a
subtle 'reality check' of the kind of mentality some teenagers face in
a generation like this. Now if you're watching the trailer and you're
thinking this is just another one of those films that sells sex appeal,
well, you are partly right. But nevertheless there are still a few
surprisingly beautiful moments/scenes in between all the hardcore
partying (that pretty much only happens in the first half of the film):
like the majestic, almost bonfire-like dance done by the spring
breakers wearing pink balaclavas and holding semi-automatic rifles to
the tune of James Franco playing Britney Spears' "Everytime" on a white
piano in his sea-side estate backyard. It was definitely bizarre, and
it was beautiful. I also want to point out that there is a lot of music
in this, and I can see why many people think this movie is just an
over-lengthy music video haha. I really liked the 'dark' parts of the
film though, when the party-vibe dies down, when the music becomes a
little gloomier, the characters; a little more confused.. it brings out
that contrast between the oh-so-lively, crazy, fun, wild party scenes
and that back-to-reality/'what-do-we-do-now' feeling.I feel like I can understand why a lot of people absolutely hated
watching this. I mean yeah, if you look at it from the start and from
all angles in an objective way, this film is a real mess. It really has
no strong plot, tries to be realistic (documenting the exposures of
teens today) and at the same time surrealistic (bikini's in court
rooms?), touches on some of the most dangerous and controversial topics
to bring into a film (some people automatically flip the 'no' switch
when they see an insane amount of taboos in a film), and is in general
a turn off to a lot of people who like to see strong, clever plots in a
film. But if you can see past all that and accept it like those things
were used as an art-form (even if you know they were not), then Spring
Breakers becomes an experience into the lives of four young girls and
their 'trip' of a lifetime. I do believe that things like what is
depicted in the film (although not as extreme, but maybe?) happen in
our world today so I think that it's definitely a good idea to gain
some insight into the way some of today's generation think and act. I
mean if you watch it and hate it, that's okay too. But I don't think
it's a waste of anyone's time to find out more about where they're
currently standing and how comfortable they are with regards to the
topics in this film.7/10+1 for James Franco's convincing transformation. (I didn't even know it
was him until after the movie.. haha)so.. 8/10
