4
Matt, you're not making this easy.

This tedious family adventure film is the latest contribution to the
popular and well established 'Where Are We Rescuing Matt H. Damon From
This Week?' genre.I like Matt H. Damon, I really do. But he's been making it very
difficult recently, and this 2+ hour marathon just doesn't help.Damon plays an astronaut accidentally marooned on Mars by a storm that
literally could not happen because Mars lacks the necessary atmospheric
conditions, where he must somehow survive with nothing but an unlimited
supply of electricity, an unlimited supply of water, an entirely self-
sufficient artificial habitat, half a dozen spare space suits, multiple
land vehicles and probes (all in perfect working order), food supplies
intended for half a dozen people, and a large quantity of magical
potato seedlings that grow to maturity in just a few days despite a
complete absence of soil nutrients.Since the first act establishes that Damon is so well set up he doesn't
actually need rescuing, Ridley Scott fabricates a second act
'emergency' in a vain attempt to raise tension (it doesn't).Damon keeps in contact with Earth via a magical transmission technology
that provides full HD streaming with no latency whatsoever, allowing
him to have real time conversations with NASA headquarters, where
everyone does and says whatever they want because there is no chain of
command even though it's ostensibly run by Jeff Daniels (played by Jeff
Daniels).His fellow astronauts remain hovering above Mars, beaming their own HD
stream to NASA by the use of a magical camera that automatically homes
in on Damon regardless of where he is on the planet.NASA builds a brand new rocket from scratch in less than 14 days so
they can send Damon a fresh load of unlimited supplies. It explodes
immediately after takeoff because Ridley Scott still has another hour
to fill. Meanwhile Damon accidentally blows up his potatoes.NASA's lone Chinese employee suddenly remembers that his uncle has a
private rocket he's never got around to using, so they phone China and
ask if NASA can borrow it. The uncle agrees so the Chinese government
sends it into space immediately, where it is instead caught by Damon's
astronaut colleagues, who nick all the supplies.Meanwhile Damon is travelling to the other side of the planet, where he
intends to escape using a previously unsuspected bonus rocket that just
happens to be lying around the place in perfect working order. Damon can't carry his unlimited supply of water and only has enough
room in his vehicle for a few sandwiches, but by a remarkable stroke of
luck it turns out that his body is capable of indefinite peak physical
performance despite minimal hydration and a complete lack of nutrition,
so that's OK. Also it turns out that the gravity on Mars is exactly the
same as Earth's, so he hasn't lost any muscle tone.Damon arrives at the bonus rocket and is told by NASA that it's
actually too heavy to lift off the planet despite being designed for
that exact purpose (???) The only solution is to remove the nose of the
rocket, which is actually easier than it sounds because the entire
spacecraft is made of Lego and can be easily disassembled by a single
undernourished man with no tools.With the nose of the rocket removed, Damon risks being killed by the
extreme physical pressure generated by takeoff. NASA points out that a
simple tarpaulin is strong enough to protect him, so he finds a spare
one from... somewhere... and straps it on.Damon's fellow astronauts pair their ship with his rocket using
Bluetooth, and take over the controls. Damon is almost crushed to a
pulp as the rocket leaves Mars, because it turns out that tarpaulin
isn't as strong as industrial steel after all.Somebody on the astronauts' ship blows something up because of reasons,
and this somehow makes it easier for one of them to rescue Damon, who
has jumped out of his rocket and is now flying towards their ship with
the aid of a hole in the finger of his space suit and an unlimited
supply of pressurised oxygen.NASA is helpfully streaming this heroic rescue to the entire planet
using their magical realtime HD stream, because of course they are.Damon and his fellow astronauts arrive home safely just a few hours
later, and Damon is rewarded with a free pair of glasses. Henceforth,
everyone must call him 'Doctor.' Because doctors have glasses.I rate The Martian at 13.32 on the Haglee Scale, which works out as a
mediocre 4/10 on IMDb.
