7
Better than Most are Making it Out to Be

I just got done watching a midnight showing of City of Bones. First off
I will say that I am a fan of the series and I will try to make this
review as middle ground as possible.I have spent the last few days reading over threads on the discussion
board and once the critics reviews came out I read most of those too.
Yes I know a lot were negative and abrasive, and sometimes even
childish in their mockery of the young adult genre. I went into this
movie as open-minded as possible knowing that there were some changes
made to the film.Firstly, several reviews, both good and bad, had issues with the
pacing. The time line is very condensed at the start of the film so
things do seem to be happening in a whirlwind. This is because they
condensed a few of the events from the novel into a shorter time span
to enable the movie not to drawl on and be way too long. I didn't mind
how they chose to change things up a bit and thought they tied things
together fairly well. I just could see it being a bit hard to follow
for the non fans that don't know what was cut out.I was worried about the romance being played up too much since some
reviews were so caught up in the triangle. It was a small part of the
bigger story much like in the book. Parts of it did come off a bit
cheesy, but overall it did not overpower the movie like I thought it
was.I really enjoyed the action sequences. They weren't too short or too
long and I felt they were well coordinated. There's definitely enough
action for the guys that will be dragged to this with their
girlfriends.Some of the changes will probably be unsettling to the fans or
upsetting because more of the film was different than I was warned or
expected. Many reviewers were adamant that it kept to the book most of
the time, but I would say it was a pretty even mix.Like most fans I had a certain idea how some scenes or characters would
be and I felt a little let down because characters weren't how I
imagined or expected them. Magnus falls flat and lacks the charisma and
attitude of his book counterpart. I also felt the way Valentine was
played/portrayed did not fall in line with how he was in the book. But
everyone who reads has there own interpretations and he wasn't close to
he Valentine I had envisioned.Lastly I feel this is a pretty solid movie for the fans and non
readers. I wouldn't say it's perfect, few movies have ever come close
to achieving that status. There are a lot of good elements going on
here and a lot of decent acting from people I least expected it given
the time they had to actually develop the characters. If you have any
interest in watching the movie don't let all the negativity sway you.
Go in with an open mind and make your own judgement. I won't say I
loved this movie, but I did really enjoy it and would definitely see it
again.
