4
When it's cold I'd like to die

Writer/director Joon-ho Bong made Memories of Murder and The Host, two
smart, sharp movies everyone loved. Then Jooh-ho Bong made Snowpiercer
and it's a mess, the kind of comic book adaptation which gives comic
books a bad name. What happened?1) Physics do not work this way. It might be science fiction is tricky.
In its cousins horror and fantasy, stuff just happens. The dark lord
forges magic rings; Jedi knights use the Force; vampires and werewolves
are simply there. If you say a scientist foolishly poured toxic wastes
into a river and created a monster, it's more than enough. Sci-fi,
however, should withstand closer scrutiny - especially sci-fi with
lofty ambitions of social commentary. It doesn't have to be airtight,
but it should hold against criticisms a fifth- grader could come up
with in a minute.Basic premise has believably sinister potential - mankind destroys
Earth through global warming, environment goes crazy, new ice age, homo
homini lupus. But Snowpiercer has the survivors huddled up on a giant
train which travels around the globe in perpetual motion on a railway
requiring no maintenance whatsoever. The laws of thermodynamics say
hello; logic says goodbye. The absurdity of this quickly becomes the
elephant in the room, and you can't follow what happens without its
trunk constantly nudging your attention.2) Social commentary does not work this way. Maybe the whole thing is
powered simply by fascist billionaire Ed Harris' smug zealotry. The
train, you see, has a stern class system separating the rich and the
poor. The rich thrive on luxury, sushi and orange gardens, while they
exploit the poor and feed them insect cookies. Without a strong
leadership the system would collapse, claims the villain, so what is
freedom worth, and yada yada yada. It's all so heavy-handed and on the
nose, it makes the hysterical Cloud Atlas look like Orwell's 1984.
Wells did it better a century ago with his Eloi and Morlocks, and that
didn't have a wide-eyed Chris Evans' clunky monologue about
cannibalism.3) Scriptwriting does not work this way. So the science is bogus, what
about the mere fiction? I understand the appeal of the premise for a
writer/director in terms of visual storytelling: the unique and
constantly evolving location; moments ripe with cinematic potential,
such as a chilling revelation involving an approaching gallery. Still, Snowpiercer falters with its uneven tone and misplaced comic
relief. Tilda Swinton's character, supposedly a Nazi-like figure of
cruel authority, is written and performed like a snippy Hogwarts
teacher. A bunch of axe-brandishing maniacs wave a salmon as a Monty
Python-ish threat to the rebellious have-nots (the hero later slips on
the fish during a fight, Wile E. Coyote-like). The result is
distracting and very silly.4/10
