8
Curse is a Blessing

Curse Of Chucky (2013), directed by Don Mancini. 95 minutes (unrated
cut: 97 minutes) Plot: Proving that you just can't keep a Good Guy down, everyone's favorite
homicidal maniac-trapped-inside-of-a-doll, Chucky (voiced by the
indispensable Brad Dourif), has returned for more shenanigans in "Curse
Of Chucky." This time he's landed in the lap of wheelchair-bound Nica
(Fiona Dourif), herself hosting a houseful of grief-stricken family
members. In an all-too-familiar fashion, members of her family start
mysteriously dying in a variety of grisly ways, casting suspicion on
the little red-headed chunk of plastic in the corner with a vacant
stare and an inexplicable grin splashed across his face. As the clock
winds down and the body count rises, Nica is in for a number of
surprises, as are fans of the "Child's Play" franchise. Friends 'til
the end indeed.Writing and Directing:In the wake of 2004's ultra-meta "Seed Of Chucky," writer/director Don
Mancini keeps the plot clean and clutter-free with "Curse," letting the
tension and bloodshed do most of the speaking. To that end, the film is
more horror than comedy, calling back to the Tom Holland-helmed
cult-classic that made us all so paranoid of Cabbage Patch Kids and
their ilk 25 years ago (!). Mancini, who has written every single on of
these films to date (and directed "Seed"), has his finger firmly on the
pulse of what his fanbase wants and delivers in spades. You want a more
stripped-down flick where Chucky returns to his patented brand of
sneaky slaughter? You got it. Do you want references and call-backs to
film's past that will put a smile on your face? You get that too. Just
make sure you watch the WHOLE feature. Franchise politics aside,
Mancini does an excellent job of squeezing as much atmosphere out of
his set-pieces as possible with a limited budget. The film looks and
feels like a theatrical release, when it was clearly intended as a
direct-to-video affair from the get-go.Cast: Fiona Dourif is a revelation as Nica. A regular chip off the old block,
Fiona resembles her dad not only on the surface, but also in her
ability to effortlessly pull off a complex character with limited
means. Hopefully we will be seeing more of her in the future. The man
himself, Brad Dourif, gets a significant amount of screen-time not as
Chucky (who barely utters a line until half-way through the movie) but
as Charles Lee Ray, the notorious Lakeshore Strangler from way-back. We
are treated to a great deal of flashbacks that wrap around nicely with
the franchise's origins, and not only does Dourif still look the part,
he gleefully embodies the role with all the necessary venom and vigor.
The rest of the cast is serviceable if forgettable by comparison,
barring a few 11th hour cameos that will have any fanboy (or girl)
clamoring for more.Music: Joseph LoDuca's score works well for the most part, but can get a bit
cumbersome in its final act. It's a far cry from the Graeme Revell and
Pino Dinaggio works of yesteryear (or even the heavy metal assault of
"Bride Of Chucky"), but it gets the job done.The Bottom Line(s): "Curse Of Chucky" is, in many ways, everything a fan could want from a
sixth "Child's Play" flick. Mancini knows this franchise better than
anyone else, so trust that you are in good hands. Relax, close your
blinds and put your toys away. Chucky's back.Lesson Learned: Never accept large parcels with no return-address, lest you be supplied
with a shotgun and plenty of ammunition.
