3
Way to Blow a Great Opportunity

Once a year laws do not exist. Once a year you can do anything you want
for twelve hours and not get in trouble. This is called The Purge and
it is designed to let humans let out their frustration on the world.
This apparently keeps society healthy, the economy up, and crime down.
I'm here to tell you that The Purge is a waste of time. A Waste of
money and should not be viewed by anyone with half a mind. I don't even know where to start with this mess. Let's start with the
idea of the purge. In 2022 the idea is that if we let people go crazy
for 12 hours they will be calm for 364.5 days. The logic and science
behind this is beyond far-fetched and it is really laughable. The fact
that anybody believes this works is out of their mind. Think about
this. Somebody pitched this idea to a group of people and those people
said, "yeah I believe that, we could make millions." Well I'm here to
say shame on you people and how dare you try and convince audiences
across the country of this crazy premise. To make it even worse
scientists and other people try to say the purge is an excuse to kill
the homeless and people who cannot defend themselves. It is an excuse
to get rid of the weak and allow the strong to survive. I don't like
the idea that this movie supported the idea of killing weak and poor
people is OK. The first half of the movie really focuses on these crazy
people trying to find this one particular homeless person. It allows
them to cleanse society and themselves. It makes zero sense and this
movie had potential and it was wasted on this piece of garbage.The story is basic. There is a family with a lot of money and they sell
security systems for the purge. Their house is huge and I will say I
would love to live there. So the purge is going on and their youngest
son sees a man in the streets calling for help and of course he lets
him in. Shortly after a radical group of lunatics come knocking at the
door looking for him and if they don't get him in a certain amount of
time then they will come in and get him. While they waste time at the
house they could have been running wild and cleansing the world of more
poor people. Instead they waste time on this one person.These people are completely out of their mind and it is impossible to
believe they are normal for 99.9% of the year. There is no possible
reason why they go nuts for 12 hours and go on a murdering rampage. I'm
not sure if they are supposed to be funny or scary either. While they
are outside they are dancing and prancing around being stupid with
their stupid masks. One is on the others back running around. The masks
are on and they pretend to make out with one another and it was really
failed comedy or an even bigger failed scare. I just sat in my chair
and laughed throughout the entire movie. I don't know if its horror
movies or me but I find them really funny. I laughed more during this
movie then I did during The Hangover 3.I will be honest, I did hate this movie but I don't regret seeing it
because I did have a good time and enjoy myself. I sat in a full
theater and listened to the crowd tear apart the movie. People hated
the daughter's boyfriend and the son's stupidity and the craziness that
was happening. Every time somebody died the crowd burst into cheers and
applause so that was awesome. I liked ripping the movie apart in the
theater. There was a scene where there is a giant glass bowl filled
with dominos and for some reason I thought it was the funniest thing. Other than the crowd I was entertained through this disaster of a
movie. The action scenes where bodies were flying and people were dying
were cool to see and what the movie should have been about. The selling
point of the movie was 12 hours of lawless mayhem. I wanted to see
chaos and the world go to hell. Instead I got a stupid story about a
family I didn't really care about being tormented by people out of
their mind. This movie tried to touch on human nature and how they
change in the heat of the moment and how they do things they won't
normally do. It doesn't work. The movie gives the wrong message and the
wrong counter argument to the message. Overall The Purge is a mess. The lame jump scares I saw coming thirty
seconds before they happened were not scary. The lunatics were not
scary or believable and reminded me of a silly version of The
Strangers. That movie was scary and the stuff they did made me scared.
The stuff these guys did made me laugh. I wanted something 100%
different from this movie and I got boring characters, a terrible
story, and a disappointment. This movie fails at almost everything it
attempted. It doesn't get a recommendation, it doesn't even get and A
for Effort. I haven't don't this in a while but The Purge gets The
WillyT Seal of DISapproval. Don't waste your time. Take my advice, save
your money, save your time, save the gas in your car. If you really
have to see it, wait a few months and get it off the internet for free.
You're welcome.
