4
Very Disappointing

There's a lot to love about Transcendence. Unfortunately, almost all of
it is killed by a very poor script. The film is so full of holes and
leaps in logic that it's hard to take any of it seriously or truly
enjoy it. Character's that should be villains turn into saviors and
characters that we expect to be allies turn into pariahs. There's no
one to really root for here and the story telling seems to exist only
to push certain ideas about technology and it's capabilities.The story is fairly simple and can pretty much be seen in the trailers.
Doctor Will Caster is a brilliant scientist working to push A.I.
technology drastically. When he is fatally wounded with a time clock on
his life, his partner in life, Evelyn, has the brilliant idea of
transplanting his consciousness into a massive super computer. From
there, we have a rapidly pushed story that leads to a bunch of silly,
almost cool ideas about what computers could become capable of.The first problem is evident in the first frame. We are immediately
aware of the ending, which left a bad taste in my mouth. The mystery of
how it is all going to end is immediately spoiled. So, all that's left
is the how. And the how is almost completely preposterous. We're led to
believe that the advancement of this super A.I. manages to grow to
unbelievable potential in only a matter of a couple of years. Somehow,
we're simply supposed to accept that everything we see is possible.
It's a massive leap of logic and one that is too hard to digest.
There's very little to suggest how any of it is possible, only simply
that it is and that very smart people are capable of making it all so.
We're also supposed to believe that the government never gets involved
and that the antagonists know what's going on, despite getting rid of
any technology that ties them to the world at large. You're simply
expected to go along with it. If you're able to, then more power to
you. I wasn't.Much of the rest of the film is well done. The cinematography is as
good as you would expect. The acting varies. Paul Bettany, Johnny Depp,
and Rebecca Hall are all sufficient here. Morgan Freeman feels wasted
as he has very little to do but get led around. But again, the entire
thing suffers from a poor script and story. It's hard to give praise to
something so completely let down by it's core, but there are glimmers
of brilliance here. This being Wally Pfister's first film, it's not too
surprising it falters. But with Nolan having his name attached and
surely having guided the cinematographer who worked on most of his
films, it's hard to believe that this managed to go through with such a
faulty script. There are far too many holes and leaps in logic to
ignore, which makes this a huge disappointment in my eyes.
