6
Almost inspirational, but slightly misses though still satisfying

There are moments in this film which will stand out the most. The
beginning was interesting and drew you into the story, and the ending
was equally heartwarming. I also thought Ben Stiller's directorial debut showed a lot of
maturity. He has an excellent eye for visuals, and often the
cinematography was quite stunning.The romance developing between Ben Stiller and Kristen Wiig was well
done and she played her part. The cast was good, Stiller's performance
was easily his best since Greenberg and a special shout out to Adam
Scott famed from Parks and Recreation, plays a horrible boss we've all
had at one stage or another.Furthermore, the story is something which should be inspirational- a
quiet middle aged guy with a big imagination in a rut looking for
someone special, never achievied anything particularly interesting up
to now or travelled. His spacing out moments hinted at opportunities
missed in his life previously. Which took an interesting turn of events
to convince him to take a wild journey and helped bring back his zest
for life and love and conquer the day-dreaming. its a heart warming
message.However, it does miss the mark at times. The 'spacing out' moments at
times were decent, but often the special effects were over done and
distracted from the purpose of the scene. His journey started off a little outlandish and by the end became
wildly improbable including a shark attack a jaunt up the mountains of
Afghanistan and offering Afghani warlords cake. At times it struggled to wrestle with whether it was a light hearted
independent comedy or drama mixed with a big budger. So it settled for
something uncomfortably inbetween, which detracted from what could have
been powerful moments. All in all a satisfying film coupled with a nice soundtrack. But also
slightly frustrating as it hinted at being a special film but settled
for pretty good instead the understated love story was the highlight.
I've given this a 6/10 but could also be a 7.
