3
Hate, movie

Sam Claflin and Lily Collins play Alex and Rosie, whom we watch grow
from childhood friends to awkward adults, separated by sea but bound by
heart. Bless. No contrivance is left uncontrived to keep them apart.
Bad relationships. Babies. Even worse relationships. It's life, Jim,
but not as we know it. Fans of the book may be dismayed to learn that
the film deviates from the text in the final act – although by then
they might actually be glad we're not going the whole hog.Conspicuously boring, the film lifelessly portrays the lives of two
remarkably cute yet determinedly unremarkable people who seem to be
making a conscious effort to build a semi-tragic love story while
leaving a trail of half-loved partners in their wake. It's all building
to an inevitable kiss. Unfortunately, a combination of poor editing,
and rapid-onset attention deficit syndrome on my part, meant I went
through the movie under the misapprehension that Alex and Rosie had
already got jiggy at the start, which may have undermined some of the
climactic impact.The supporting cast is comprised of pantomime villain boyfriends,
poisonously bitchy girlfriends, and an infinitely accommodating
pro-life Catholic family. Rosie's best friend is one of those handily
not-quite-as-pretty mates (Jaime Winstone) who says things bluntly and
whose impossibly simple personal philosophy acts solely to highlight
the needless complications of Rosie's own life.This is a ruthlessly formulaic movie in which I lost count of the
occasions that Alex or Rosie would come to the conclusion that they
love each other, only to discover in the same instant that the other
was committed elsewhere. Each dull revelation is followed by empowering
montage, propelled by a listless soft rock soundtrack. The early
slapstick humour – all baby vomit and lost condoms – is Carry On funny
(by which I mean not funny) and gives way to more "grown-up" jokes of
the blandly observational variety. Nothing that hasn't been noticed by
countless Saturday night stand-ups.This is unreal life depicted as a series of poetic coincidences, giving
the illusion of fate. It's utterly disingenuous. What, perhaps, wistful
14-year-olds might imagine adult relationships are like. The rest of us
are thinking: Get over it. Man up or move on. Somewhere there may be an
interesting film to made about the way in which bleeding heart
romantics skilfully maintain unconsummated tension over time, but this
isn't it.Claflin and Collins are likable leads, and with a decent script and a
plausible story they might have showed some chemistry. But it's hard to
connect cinematically over text, Skype, and eye-rolling narrative
contrivance. I fear that audiences may find it similarly hard to
connect with this film.
