6
Another boring and predictable love story, this time with a Pakistani person in it.

To paraphrase the leading actress of the movie, "You know that yawning
thing that happens when you watch a really boring film? That happened."
A lot. Like a sociopathic child dragging it's torn and half eaten teddy, I too
was dragged along to see this movie by my significant other, whose
depiction of the film was roughly of "a struggle for acceptance by an
interracial couple in the west." Unfortunately, this film was only
barely that. Yes, he is Pakistani. Yes, he is in a not-so-hot interracial
relationship. Yes, he seems to be rebelling against the stereotypical
beard wearing, head bobbing, rice eating, Urdu speaking family he
appears to be a member of, but the depiction seem to stop there. Firstly, the acting, like watching Bruce Forsyth perv on the dancing on
ice girls, was just barely tolerable through all the cringe worthiness
and specifically the casting of Zoe Kazan was just plain wrong. I
really didn't enjoy watching her; she can barely deliver dialogue, she
looked awkward and gaunt the whole time (even when she was well) and
there was no chemistry on screen with either Kumail or her on-screen
parents. The argumentative scenes were poorly dialogued and seemed too
hyperbolic and forced and just showed what an awful actor she is. Coming onto the story itself, it's basically a story of a Pakistani
stand-up comedian whose white girlfriend falls sick, gets better and
then everyone is happy - with very little of interest in between. The
pathetic little in-depth exploration of cultural differences and
intra-customary variations were only ever skid marks on the undies of
revelation and portrayed as quippy stereotypes and cheap gags. For
example *Pakistani accent* "why don't you grow a beard like your
brother" and "oh, Mrs 'whoever' was just driving by and dropped in"
(don't forget to roll the R's). Additionally, every brown character in
the movie seemed to have a Pakistani accent despite them telling us
some were USA born and bred - again this points to the forced and
farcical nature of the approach to humour in the movie. Furthermore, if you've read any of my previous reviews, you'll know I
detest medical inconsistencies in movies. I'm sorry but one minute
Emily has a chest infection (for which she would have received some
anti-inflammatories at some point - I'll come onto why this is
important in a minute) and the next minute she's so unwell she's
materialised five jargon jabbering Jar Jar Binks style doctors and
needs urgent surgery (for god knows what - she had no indication a
second ago of empyema/pleural effusion etc and I'm sorry but I've not
really heard of just cutting an infection out of someone's lung, even
TB isn't managed like that these days!) Then hey presto, Dr House
obviously came along and matched the swollen ankle tid-bit from earlier
with her apparent "inconclusive biopsy" (again - Huh?) and came up with
Adult Onset Still's Disease. Her condition then rapidly improved the
minute they gave her some anti-inflammatories - which dare I say she
would have got in the ER the minute she walked through the door for her
apparent chest infection, so, none of this medical mumbo-jumbo would
have happened anyway! Really, if they wanted me to care about her
medical condition they should have focused and put some effort into
getting the details accurate, because apparently it may actually have
happened exactly like that, if this movie really was based on a true
story. However, regardless if the medicine was accurate or depicted well, like
an impending meteor the rubbish that ensued whilst Emily was
unconscious had already sealed this movie's fate. An obligatory 9-11
related scene could never go amiss here, the bombing out on stage
(excuse the pun), the pointless screaming at a PA system over 4 slices
of cheese and the overall boring conversations just left me feeling
sleepy. I have no idea why the story then suddenly waffled on about
Emily's parent's marital issues - what on earth did that have to do
with the price of chips?Overall, this movie picked a great topic to explore but failed
miserably at exploring it. The focus here should have been on delving
into Pakistani culture, how the second generation are adapting it into
Western Culture and how both generations are dealing with this paradigm
shift. This should have been a film about Kumail's and Emily's parents
bonding and accepting each other's cultures through the eyes of their
children, especially as Emily battles for her life. This could have
been a movie about the younger American-Indian/Pakistani/whatever
generation teaching the older generations of their identity struggle,
how they strive to fit into both worlds and how the older generation
need to change to be more accepting of this brave new world. Yet,
instead this was a film about cheesy quips, borderline racist
stereotypes and just the usual white people issues and pointless
yelling, boiling down to just being another boring chick-flick type
romance movie with some basic comedic moments. Watch Bend It Like Beckham, East is East, Marigold Hotel or even Bride
and Prejudice *sigh* if you expect more exploration of cultural
differences. This is barely watchable. 6/10 as the funny bits are
funny.
