9
A Beautiful Touching Family Drama

I am gonna start by saying this really is one of the best movies of
2016 so if you haven't watched it I would do it as soon as possible.
This really is an amazing movie, it is one of those movies that
actually make you laugh and cry. It is one of those movies that are not
afraid to send a strong message, while still asking many important
questions. It definitely sends a lot of messages that most people don't
agree with. The only reviews I have seen that said this movie was bad, were all
basically complaining about it saying religion was stupid. But anyway
if you agree with the message, or is big enough to look past it and
just enjoy the movie, I promise you won't be disappointed. It gives a
refreshing new look on parenting, both in a serious way and a totally
non-serious way too. For me the movie gave a beautiful way of looking at life in both a
funny way and a serious way. I don't know the director, all I know is
he did an amazing job. The acting is brilliant, of all the family
movies I have watched, this movie is the one where it has felt most
like a real family. First Viggo Mortensen gives maybe his best
performance yet as the hippie, intellectual, loving father, in one of
the best movies he is in. I don't know the names of the children acting
in the movie, all I can say is I personally think they all did an
amazing job, especially the young ones for their age.The story is about a father living with his children in a beautiful
forest, in what looks like paradise. You see the family struggling with
living in the wild but mostly enjoying it, until one day they find out
that the mother of the children has committed suicide, while in the
hospital being treated for mental illness. When they found out her
parents are going to bury her, even though she wished to be cremated,
they set out on a journey to fulfill their mothers wish. I am gonna finish by saying this is definitely one of the best movies
about family I have seen in a long time, and I would recommend it to
everyone. I hope this review was helpful and I hope you will love the
movie as much as I do.
