2
What a load of sh*t

I had high hopes for this film, which were quickly quashed four scenes
later, when not a thing had happened.I think that it was a real shame, as the art direction was great, the
camera work was interesting and pleasing, and the acting was really
great. A particularly great performance from Garrett Hedlund as Dean. I
don't think any of the actors can be blamed for the poor film that it
was. What is to blame, in my opinion, was the script, direction and
editing. It did not have a plot, or direction, and seemed to make no
point. It was a series of scenes showing off how 'cool' these writers
were, and how pretentious the filmmakers could be without making any
real point.The thing that I disliked most about this movie was that nothing but
the costumes and sets reflecting the 1950s. The characters spoke as if
they were in the 2000's, were open about sex, homosexuality, drugs and
race. They seemed to face no repression or hardship whatsoever, they
were living in the great depression, yet all they did was drink, party,
do drugs, sleep with women and write. I found it very difficult how the
characters talked constantly about how bad their lives were, how they
wanted to die and were living in a society that was horrible. I saw
none of this!!! Their lives seemed wonderful, partying with friends,
writing and traveling around America with the ease of popping into any
passing car and meeting an array of interesting and friendly people. What was amazing about the true story of these writers was that they
were emerging from a society of repression, they were the first
intellectual writers emerging from an uneducated society due to the
depression. They were opening up to the 50s as a modern generation, the
first beat poets. However the writers within this movie faced no
repression, the only hardship was money – but even money issues seemed
to be solved, finding work a couple of days later. And the main
character could even return to his mother if things got too bad. The people they met were filthy, with clothes that looked old enough to
be falling off them – yet they lived in houses with huge expanses of
rooms, candles and fantastic ornaments, in even greater locations. I
found myself saying, why not just have a shower and wash your clothes
in one of your 5 bathrooms?Although the reason for my issues with this film is its
unrealisticness, the reason that I hated the film was because it had no
plot. Now I am fine with movies that have no plot, but they need to say
something, about ANYTHING. This movie was about a group of young
writers who were trying to gather enough experiences to write a novel,
but at the end of the film I found myself thinking – why was I involved
in that? What did they want to say? Was there any point to what I just
watched? It went for two and a half hours, one hour easily could have been left
on the cutting room floor. Don't even get me started on the useless
character of a third chubby male who travelled with them and seemed to
serve no point, and a elongated series of scenes at a house of two
heroin addicts who had no real relevance to the story. It was self
indulgent, pretentious and had no idea what its own reason for
existence was. You just need to look at poster after watching the film
to see that the filmmakers don't know what point they are trying to
make. What a useless load of sh*t.
