9
The Heart of Darkness

As I passed the Golden Arches each day on my way to school in a small
western town I'd look up to see the number of burgers sold. It was
particularly gratifying when it reached a million. "Way to go
McDonald's!" Later, when I was nearly homeless my one meal a day was a
Big Mac. I was addicted to the sauce and pickles."The Founder" is the story of the man who built a fast food empire
under those Golden Arches, a story rendered into film, produced at the
remarkable low cost of $7 million. The timely screenplay by Robert D
Siegel is pitch perfect, navigated by the faultless direction of John
Lee Hancock, supported by a fantastic production team with special
mention for art director Hugh D. G. Moody and his construction crew.I cannot overstate the relevance of this film in 2017.Ray Kroc (54), lonely, bitter, venal, sets out to achieve money and
power using "Persistence" as his mantra. Failing as a kitchenware sales
rep, he takes a road trip from his home turf in Illinois to uncover the
secret of the phenomenal success of the brothers McDonald with their
hamburger stand in San Bernardino, California – the template for what
will become the biggest fast food franchise in history to date.Actors Nick Offerman and John Carroll Lynch play the brothers Dick and
Mac, so different in size and manner, so perfectly suited as brothers,
and with just the right touch of comedy, they convinced me they were
indeed men of integrity and creativity.Kroc, expertly played by Michael Keaton, desperate to break the middle
class ties that bind him, wheedles his way into the family business as
franchise manager of what he foresees will become a super efficient,
micromanaged fast food empire. Within two years Kroc outright steals
everything the brothers created, including the family name.How Keaton is able to portray a character with such a hole for a soul
is a feat of both madness and brilliance. As much as his performance
haunts, it repels, one more testament to Keaton's breadth and skill as
an actor.It is always a pleasure to see Laura Dern on screen, and it is
especially gratifying to see her negotiate the murky shallows of
husband Ray's vapid mood swings. The Dern / Keaton scenes transcend
acting in a subtle dance of a marriage unraveling.Kroc is not a salesman to provide essential or public services like,
say, school team uniforms, or to offer health services. He is not a
salesman because he is inspired to it, or fated to be, he does so
because he is so unimaginative, so unproductive, so without a clue, the
only option is to perform as a salesman, hiccuping pre-digested
pitches. Even his eventual fast food franchising claim to fame was
prefabbed in the early 1920s by the White Castle Restaurant chain.The script interprets Kroc's rules of engagement impeccably: "Business
is war. It's dog eat dog, rat eat rat. If my competitor were drowning,
I'd walk over and put a hose right in his mouth." A ruthless white male at age 54 making his last stand – but on what
foundation? A subscriber of a 1950s self-help course, Ray finds his
perfect match in a phonographic sales guru who articulates: "One word …
PERSISTENCE. Nothing in this world can take the place of good old
persistence. Talent won't. Nothing's more common than unsuccessful men
with talent. Genius won't. Unrecognized genius is practically a cliché.
Education won't. Why, the world is full of educated fools. Persistence
and determination alone are all powerful." The mantra becomes Kroc's, revealing a deep and abiding hatred of
talent, genius, and education.Once Kroc steals everything from the brothers, he has to have the
McDonald's name. After all, his phonographic guru has convinced him
he's the founder. Even so, deep down he knows none of it originated
with him. None of it. However, he did come up with one innovation,
repurposing the American Dream as the Kroc Dream of unlimited
self-serving power.Steal every innovation Ray, make America great, and take no prisoners,
including democracy.
