1
A strong contender for worst movie of the year

And also, one of the worst sequels ever to be made. The truth is, like
some other films, Independence Day: Resurgence didn't have to be made.
Why it was made, I can't tell. Perhaps 20th Century Fox needed a to
resurrect this brand to compete with other studios. And as the ending
makes sufficiently clearly, there's more coming (please, spare us from
it!). There's truly nothing to be recommended here: the story is dumb,
the script very poor (some lines or scenes are unintentionally
laughable), every single joke falls flat, the characters are one
dimensional, the performances from the veteran actors could have been
phoned in, and those from the young ones are rather stiff and
uninspiring. Relationships have no chemistry and one doesn't really
care for anyone. Boring is a good word to describe what happens on
screen at every turn. There's never any real tension built, nor there
is ever a sense of urgency. And they make the mistake of merely making
the threat merely bigger (absurdly so; then again, Star Wars has
recently stumbled upon that same rock). The film boasts a democratic,
all inclusive, multicultural, globalist vibe. It also features a very
prominent same-sex relationship from a significant, albeit secondary,
character. It may be a SJW dream of a movie, since every requisite box
of social justice is checked. In this sense the movie turns out to be
quite lofty. If it proves anything, it is this: than the inclusion of
such topics, or their filmic depiction per se do not better a film. It
may just have the opposite effect, since all felt rather tiresome and
fabricated. The movie fails in every department: story, script, acting,
soundtrack, editing. But also in special effects. Imagine that! One of
the main draws of the original ID4 was, precisely, its SFX. This one
also boasts special effects galore, but they aren't of very good
quality. It looks like everyone is in front of a green screen all the
time. Objects don't have weight to them and all the presentation feels
very cartoony. If you stay away from this movie, you will have made
yourself an enormous favor. You won't have wasted any money nor two
precious hours of your life.
