7
The Purge Sequel: Less Anarchic than the First

Here is how I see it. The second installment (to what promises to be a
yearly occurrence) of the Purge was a lot better than the first. But it
isn't because The Purge: Anarchy is a significant film. It's because
Writer/Director James DeMonaco is finally able to incorporate the
underlying theme of class hierarchy that was completely misguided in
its predecessor. The big mistake with the first film was making it a trite home invasion
thriller. With Anarchy, we explore the outside world during the 6th
annual Purge, and it proves, without a doubt, to be ten times more
thrilling and suspenseful. We see the nut cases in freaky masks (one
with GOD written on it) wielding their weapons of choice. We see the
upper class citizens holding each others hands reciting the "New
Founding Fathers" motto that feels like some satanic cult. In our
seats, we feel that we have to look around all at times, because there
could be a killer ahead or behind us.There are three revolving stories of people who are entering the night.
One is Eva and Cali, a waitress and her daughter. There is Shane and
Liz, a crumbling couple with no killer instincts at all. And then there
is Leo, the sergeant, the "kick ass and take names" guy. Leo is out to
revenge Purge. The others find themselves wandering the street. Leo
winds up having to protect them. Will his generosity effect his main
goal? Can Leo really save everyone? Frank Gillo makes for a very
convincing and likable hero. While we watch and the story unfolds, we
learn that The Purge, and its purgers, aren't so much anarchic as they
are regulated. With it's unique premise the Purge is always able to separate itself
from the average horror/thriller film. Most importantly, Anarchy is a
step up because it realizes its potential to be truly scary from the
realism of its "legal murder" concept; rather than just bludgeoning
people left and right. Unlike the first film, your instinctive
fascination with such a nightmare concept will multiply here, not
diminish or turn into a laughing stock.I can recommend Purge Anarchy. Not only does it save what looked to be
a profitable franchise, but it is a decent film too.
