8
Strong Emotional Journey

Another of the many World Premieres showcasing at the Toronto 

International Film Festival with hopes of Oscar glory is, The 

Impossible, the true story of a family's struggle to reunite after 

being violently separated when the tsunami hit the beach of sun soaked 

Thailand in 2004.



The film stars Ewan McGregor and Naomi Watts as the two parents of 

three young boys that were vacationing in Thailand over Christmas when 

the tsunami devastated the country and shocked the world.



With a prerequisite set-up of the main characters, the tsunami hits 

early in The Impossible and packs an incredible punch. As the wave 

crashes through the hotels pool area and sweeps away the five members 

of the family, we watch in terror as Maria (Watts) and Lucas (Tom 

Holland) struggle to stay above the raging water and within arms 

lengths of each other.



Once the water settles, the badly injured Maria and Lucas begin a 

journey of survival without knowledge as to the fate of the missing 

three members of the family. Lucas is forced to mature beyond his years 

and assist in getting his mother to a hospital for immediate emergency 

attention and is the key to the more emotional scenes that conclude the 

film.



The Impossible is only the second film made using new 3-D sound 

technology (the film is in 2-D) and the crashing and fast flowing water 

sequences can be heard, and almost felt, throughout the entire theatre.



When not fully engrossed in our characters' plights and emotionally 

tied to their survival, we are thoroughly repulsed by the graphic 

scenes of bodily destruction that blood soak the screen. Director J.A. 

Bayona is no stranger to horrific make-up effects as he was the genius 

behind the camera for The Orphanage (2007) and he pulls no punches 

here. Some audience members were seen turning their heads unable to 

ingest the graphic nature of effects and few were even seen exiting 

while the scenes played out in long detail.



Thanks to the trailers, we know (generally) how the movie concludes. 

But just like Ron Howard's masterful Apollo 13, J.A. Bayona still keeps 

us at the edge of our seats even with an ending that is both clear and 

true to the original story.



The Impossible does have its shot at some Awards glory. Watts and 

McGregor pull off incredibly emotional and physical scenes and films 

that deal with real life tragedy and the human spirit that overcomes 

those tragedies usually find favour with award voters.



But whether or not The Impossible gets any gold plated hardware it does 

not take away from the tiring and emotional journey that audiences will 

take with their characters. The Impossible is the best depiction yet of 

the Indian Ocean tsunami and the horrors that succeeded it. It is also 

one of the best movies we have seen so far this year. Packed with equal 

scenes of tearful drama and graphic horrors. And although the wave is 

the catalyst that propels the plot, the characters are so strong that 

the big wave that hits the resort will hardly be the thing you most 

remember.




