9
Not a Great Movie, but Still a Good Movie

I went into this film prepared to be disappointed. Tim Burton's Alice
in Wonderland felt a bit lifeless to me (except for Johnny Depp's
Hatter) and I couldn't help but compare this movie to that one in my
head. So, I went and saw this one with reservations.I'm a huge Oz fan. I love the original books. I love the movie. I love
Wicked (book and musical), Tin Man, Return to Oz, The Wiz (the musical
more than the movie), and even Geoff Ryman's oh-so-depressing novel
Was. There's no such thing as an "official" version of the story
anymore, so I don't mind a little pastiche here and there. After all,
Baum's Witch was short, wore an eye patch and a very tall hat, and
brandished an umbrella, but Margaret Hamilton effectively erased that
version in favor of the glorious green-skinned villain we all know and
love. So talk of "the real version of the story" is pretty much moot at
this point.This movie didn't disappoint me at all. Yes, it had some issues, but I
didn't really mind overall. I left the theater with a big goofy grin
and I'll probably go see it again. It was an enjoyable romp through a
gorgeous landscape with enough insider references to merit multiple
viewings. It rarely takes itself too seriously, and never tries to step
on the toes of any other version of the story. There are references to
events in the books which, before now, have never made it into any
other adaptations (such as the China Girl), as well as many familiar
visual cues from the 1939 film (the guard's outfits, the spiral where
one fork of the Yellow Brick Road begins, and even a shot of the Kansas
horizon with a scraggly grasping tree seem comfortably familiar). There
was even a visual cue that, while it may not have been taken from this
source, certainly suggested a character from Tin Man. I felt that Mila Kunis came across as a bit flat. Her character arc
seems too forced and we don't really get to see much progression. I
didn't mind James Franco, to be completely honest. He was appropriately
sleazy when he needed to be and charming in a goofy way when needed. I
think he could have invested his character with a bit more depth, but
it never really turned me off his character at all. Superficiality is a
huge part of his character, and I thought it worked, overall. The side
characters were a delight, with some of the best comedic lines coming
from Oz's traveling companions. And, of course, Rachel Weisz steals the
show with a delicious performance, embodying a great number of classic
villains from Snow White's Evil Queen to Star Wars' Emperor Palpatine.Visually, the film is a delight. Sam Raimi turns Oz into its own
wonderland without it ever seeming predictable or tired. One criticism
I had with Burton's Alice was that it didn't really give the audience a
chance to luxuriate in the bizarre landscapes of Underland all that
much. It had great character design, but the landscape seemed a bit
low- key. Raimi, on the other hand, gives audiences exactly what
they're looking for. Gems, flowers, waterfalls, mountains, rock
formations, sunsets, etc. that are completely breathtaking. Not only
that, but the CGI is crisp and clean.Danny Elfman's score was...OK. One thing I've noticed with him lately
is that almost everything he does now sounds less and less unique.
We've got the requisite haunting waltz and the spectacular pounding
swirling opening credits theme, but other than that, I found almost
everything to be a bit forgettable, which is sad because Elfman is one
of my favorite film composers. The music isn't bad, but it just doesn't
add as much as it could have. But overall, I really enjoyed this movie. It's a delightful romp
through a colorful wilderness that asks nothing more from its audience
than a chance to have fun. This isn't a thoughtful, complex
Oscar-winner nor is it a gritty realistic fantasy a la Lord of the
Rings or Game of Thrones. It's a kaleidoscopic portrait that seems at
once familiar and new. Children will love it (though very young
children may be scared by a few of the antagonistic creatures) adults
will enjoy picking out all the loving homages to the books and the 1939
film. It's a fun way to spend an evening, and you won't be
disappointed, just don't go in expecting deep, complex high fantasy. If
you liked Burton's Alice, you will definitely enjoy this film (and
you'll probably enjoy it more, if I may so myself).
