10
The Big Sick is a cute story about the sacrifices between family traditions and significant others

What's more important? Your significant other or your family? That can
be a challenging question when it comes to your development as a human
being. While it doesn't say much about you and how you react to people,
it certainly says something about their personality. Should they side
with their lover, then they are willing to dodge bullets and rarely
care about the opinions of other people. If they chose family, then
they have a lot of beliefs in classic values don't want to lose a
possible safety net from their parents. As a white guy from a middle class family, I already have to process my
thoughts if I'm going to go against my parents. I can't imagine how
much harder that has to be for those from backgrounds with thicker
backgrounds. A good friend of mine is marrying into a Mexican-catholic
family despite being nonreligious. He's told me that it's taken him a
while to win over his brides family and to be accepted into their
traditions. Another friend of mine married an African-American, despite
some resistance from his family. Today, I know them as one of the most
loving families around. The Big Sick examines love and conflicting with
traditions.Uber driver Kumail (played by Kumail Nanjiani) is an aspiring stand up
comedian who is on the verge of acquiring his big break by possibly
getting a spot in a popular Canadian comedy festival. He also does a
one person play about his experience of growing up in Pakistan and the
U.S.A. and how he's adopted the American way of living, despite his
family staying safe within their Pakistan values. This includes weekly
dinners where his parents keep trying to set him up with potential
women from Pakistan to lead into an arraigned marriage. This changes
during one of his shows when a heckler stops his show.Aspiring therapist Emily (played by Zoe Kazan) talks to Kumail about
his act and the two end up going home. Though they keep claiming they
won't do it again, it leads them to date (without Kumail's parents
knowing of course). After a fight and her walking out, Kumail gets a
phone call about her in the hospital. He agrees with the doctor to put
her in a medical induced coma and uses her phone to contact her
parents. Her father Terry (played by Ray Romano) and mother Beth
(played by Holly Hunter) arrive as the two and Kumail try to help them
deal with their daughter. The Big Sick happens to not only be very
cute, but this is a nice examination at these kinds of relationships.
You usually don't see many interracial kinships (with the exception of
this years Get Out), but this one examines a lot of the complications
that arise from both families opinions to between the lovers. It even
manages to subvert a lot of tropes you typically find in these romance
comedies, like how the couple has their "blowout" much earlier, which
only makes the situation even more complicated if she recovers.The main star and scriptwriter, Kumail Nanjuani, clearly has based this
off of his experiences (just wait for the end credits). He knows how to
juggle the balance of what probably happened and which moments were
exaggerated. He also understands just how much he can hurt his family
and how high the consequences were. Though his performance as himself
was good, the bigger surprise comes from both Ray Romano and Holly
Hunter, both actors I haven't seen in a while. If you think Romano is
just repeating his character from Everybody Loves Raymond, then you'll
be in for a surprise by how sincere his character is. While I can't
spoil the best parts, I can be sure he may have earned himself an Oscar
nomination.The Big Sick also dwells into stand up comedy, which is rarely done on
film, into new territory I haven't seen. While most deal with trying to
be funny, this one seems to care about how much storytelling is
involved. As someone whose done some stand up, I can say that the film
is accurate and honest about how hard it is to get noticed. While we're
not all trying to get on Saturday Night Live, we at least have
different perspectives that are worth addressing.I'll give this ten stuffed giraffes out of ten. I was taken aback with
how much I liked this and hope that a lot of people realize that all
kinds of love are worth talking about. The biggest sacrifice you can
make depends on what you value, and I hope that this movie can help. I
can definitely recommend The Big Sick.
