3
Just too Depressing!!!

After watching the first 71 minutes of this 110 minutes of nauseatingly
painful to watch and/or endure celluloid rubbish, what I was expecting
was to put a gun in my mouth and pulling the trigger Geez, Louise!!!
Can someone please reassure me that something "GOOD" occurs once you
find out that your: one-night stand, baby-mama, wife, step-mother, or
"Dances with the Stars" booty call finds out that she's
pregnant!!!??!!! This is one of those ALL-Star multiple plot line movies in which the
thread that binds all these stories together is so thin, it may as well
not exist. We have the Hollywood couple of Cameron Diaz (Jules, the
health guru) and Matthew Morrison (Evan, professional dancer) who meet
on Evan's TV dance show and formed a relationship. Jules helped Gary
(Ben Falcone) lose 100 pounds on her weight-loss show. Gary is married
to Wendy (Elizabeth Banks), who finally gets pregnant after two years
of trying. Gary's father is Ramsey (Dennis Quaid), an ex-professional
car racer married to his young wife, Skyler (Brooklyn Decker) also
pregnant, and probably the best thing this film has going for it.
Skyler's cousin is Rosie (Anna Kendrick) who has a one night stand with
Marco (Chace Crawford). And to round out this celebrity cast is
professional baby photographer, Holly (Jennifer Lopez) and her boytoy
Alex (Rodrigo Santoro) who cannot have a baby, are in the process of
adopting.The film is called "What to expect, when you're expecting"; however,
the better name would be "What are the worst possible things to happen
when you are expecting". I mean EVERY POSSIBLE BAD thing that could
possibly go wrong during your pregnancy is definitely explored in this
film!!! The film is such a downer in the first 71 minutes of this film;
I felt that I needed to start taking anti-depressants just to make it
to the end of this film. Though the film does start to lighten up in
the final 39 minutes, by the time that occurs, the damaged is done, and
it's WAY TOO LITTLE TOO LATE to save this "comedy" or rather
"drama-medy" or just call it what it really is a "tragedy" !!! I did
not enjoy this film, not in the least!!! I was looking for an evening
of light comedic entertainment, and was beatdown with bad relationship
issues, a miscarriage, hemorrhoids, breast feeding, and the pro and
cons of circumcisions and I was NOT HAPPY!!!! Maybe there is an
audience out there for this film; however, if you are a male 18-80,
this film is not for you!!!! Do not be fooled, by the images of Chris
Rock and others loaded down with every baby buggy bundle bobble on the
market, and say, "Hey, that looks like it could be funny". Because
IT'S NOT!!!!! However, it's definitely a chick flick, so view
acoordingly.SEE MORE OF MY REVIEWS ONFB @ "THE FARIS REEL"
