8
Captivating, yet disturbing look at a college experiment gone mad

The Stanford Prison Experiment is a film, directed by Kyle Patrick
Alvaraz, that honestly did not get the attention it deserves and was
way overlooked due to its limited release. This film takes an
enthralling, yet dark look at a controversial project that took place
at Stanford University back in 1971. The film dramatizes the story of
twenty-five Stanford University students who were selected by
Psychology professor Dr. Philip Zimbardo (played by Billy Crudup) to
participate in two-week project known as the "Stanford Prison
Experiment". This involved each student being placed in positions as
either a prisoner or a guard. With half of students taking positions as
guards and the other half taking positions as prisoners, the idea of
the experiment was to teach the students the psychological conditioning
of felons who are thrown in prison, although it is only vaguely stated
in the film. A hallway was cleared out with faculty and staff cleaning
out offices and placing spring beds to give the empty rooms the looks
of prison cells. However, the experiment quickly went awry when the
students taking the roles of prisoners began taking the project too
seriously, up to the point where the students were no longer clear
whether they were still doing a project, or the real thing.Featuring the supporting cast of Ezra Miller, Johnny Simmons, Michael
Angarano, Moises Arias, Nicholas Braun, Thomas Mann, Tye Sheridan,
Logan Miller, Ki Hong Lee, and several others; this docudrama pulls no
punches when portraying the events of this controversial experiment
that turned out to be more troubling than Professor Zimbardo as well as
the staff expected it to be, and this is all done by the strong
screenplay and direction by Kyle Patrick Alvaraz and Tim Talbott. As
this is based on true events, the scenes here are quite fact-based and
faithful to the real-life event. The film focuses on how these students
acting as guards take the project way too seriously and treat the
students acting as prisoners in a very degrading manner, and thus,
robbing them of their innocence and their humanity. We watch as these
characters develop, and their lines between right and wrong gradually
become blurred. Lot of the material is very tense and disturbing, and
some of which get to the point of being discomforting to watch. Aside
from this is a subplot involving heated debates between Professor
Zimbardo and the staff on whether or not the project is going in the
right direction, which plays a significant role in the story. Director
Kyle Patrick Alvaraz and writer Tim Talbott handle with the story very
maturely, and with authenticity. The writing by Talboot is ingenious,
and the direction this film goes is quite interesting, and by the end,
will leave audiences filled with questions.The characters are also handled very solidly throughout the picture,
and the performances are creditable for this. Billy Crudup is pretty
solid in his role as Dr. Philip Zimbardo, the psychology professor who
suffers a major moral dilemma when conducting the experiment. Ezra
Miller and Tye Sheridan who plays prisoners do a fantastic job as the
characters, but the actors who really stand out are Michael Angarano
and Nicholas Braun who play the guards. These actors are very committed
in their roles as the guards who strip their innocent guy images and
turn into ruthless students with sadistic intentions. Angarano and
Braun have collaborated in a few films in the past, and are not very
known for taking on sadistic roles like these. Watching their
performances are quite shocking, though sometimes comedic; especially
when listening Angarano shout in "rednecky" accent. The Stanford Prison Experiment is a very captivating and thought-
provoking film that is worth a watch. Yes, this film can be difficult
to sit through and most likely not recommendable to all but mature
audiences. Nonetheless, it is a film that tackles an interesting topic
and may very likely lead to some discussions after viewing.
