8
A film worth seeking out.

'Hell or High Water' is a bit of an odd duck. Mainly because it got a
wide release. This is the only great film that has released in 2016
that got a wide release. I mean, there are only four or five films that
I thought have been really great and all of them have either got
basically no theater release or a limited viewing. I truly hope that
this spurs more films like it though. More well crafted movies that
actually have characters you can get invested in. There have been so
many films this year that have completely failed due to poor character
writing. Now, this film isn't perfect. So lets just get the negatives
out of the way before we get into what makes this great.There aren't many problems here. The only big issue for me lies in the
films story. It's really not that good. Once you step back to examine
it, it's actually pretty by the numbers. If you've seen any heist movie
ever than you probably know where this film is going. It follows a very
standard formula that rarely deviates from it's by the numbers
approach.But it wasn't until I took a step back that I noticed it. That's due to
how well executed it is. It's one of those films that's so finely
crafted that you don't really notice it's issues. That's what I loved
about the film. It has such great characters that the familiar beats it
hits actually feel genuine. Because you get to know these people and
you feel like their choices matter to what's happening on screen.Which came as a breath of fresh air in a time when films have become so
predictable and convenient. Our three main characters are played by
Jeff Bridges, Chris Pine, and Ben Foster. Who were all at their very
best for this movie. Foster was the weakest of all but when acting
across from Bridges, is hard to really stand out. Yet, that is exactly
what Chris Pine does. I have never seen him give this kind of
performance.I'm glad to see him taking on nuanced roles that legitimately show his
range. It felt almost like his performance in 'Z for Zachariah' but
he's far more compelling to watch here. Which really adds to his
character. He is the one that you have to feel for most. And his sad
yet determined personality really pushed you through the film.On the other end, Ben fosters character introduced the most conflict to
the film. To avoid spoilers, I won't go into his character much but the
film respected him enough to not make him the bad guy. It's so easy to
make a character like that the films bad guy but he never becomes that
person. It respects its characters enough to make them humans with
problems instead of saying this guys the bad one and this guy is the
good one.And it's all shot and directed with the utter most care and effort.
With nearly every shot you can feel the attention to detail and the
work put into making this the way it is. It may not be Alejandro
Inarritu levels of ingenuity but I loved seeing effort being put into
making the film. It's very rare to see great directing and inventive
cinematography in wide release films like this.'Hell or High Water' is rare breed. It's a great film that got a wide
release. There is a lot of love and care put into this and it shows.
It's well shot, directed nicely, has a solid score, is brilliantly
acted, and offers excellent characters. This is definitely worth going
out and seeing. That being said, It falls just short of being amazing.
The story is pretty by the numbers and it's ending doesn't really seem
to know what it wants to do. However, it remains a great film and is
definitely worth supporting in theaters.
