6
Begins as art, ends with a fart

Steven Soderbergh is a chameleon of a director and one of the few who
has the ability to move from critically acclaimed Hollywood
blockbusters, like Ocean's Eleven, to dramatic art films like The
Limey. He is also one of the hardest working filmmakers today, taking
on such roles as producer, writer, director, cinematographer and
editor. As a director, he has been able to pump out two feature length
films in a single year and he has done this more than just once.
However, over the last decade his films have become weaker as it seems
as though not enough time has been invested into exploring the
emotional depths of the stories he is bringing to life. Therefore they
lack the ability to conjure genuine emotion from their audience. It
almost seems as if he does not care about whether or not audiences are
moved or entertained, but rather is just doing his job, moving from one
project to the next.At the beginning of the year it was announced that Soderbergh was
retiring as a director and that SIDE EFFECTS would be his last
theatrical film release. In an interview with New York Magazine, he
stated: "The worst development in filmmaking—particularly in the last
five years—is how badly directors are treated. It's become absolutely
horrible the way the people with the money decide they can fart in the
kitchen, to put it bluntly."Rooney Mara plays Emily, a woman who seems to be suffering from some
sort of mental disorder after her husband, Martin, played by Channing
Tatum, returns home from prison. After a failed suicide attempt Emily
is introduced to Dr. Jonathan Banks, played by Jude Law, a psychiatrist
who tries to help her by prescribing her an anti-depressant. As Emily's
symptoms worsen, her psychiatrist and her try to find an
anti-depressant that works for her. After many failed attempts Dr.
Banks takes the advice of Emily's previous doctor, played by Catherine
Zeta-Jones, and prescribes her a new experimental medication called
Ablixa. The side effects attempt to destroy both of their lives.Side Effects is shot and paced like a serious, well-crafted art film
studying the truth behind depression which slowly builds into one hell
of a tense thriller. What hold the film back is the ending. By the end
this serious, well-crafted art film has succumb to a Hollywood twist
gimmick popcorn flick better suited for the late 90's. I couldn't help
thinking that someone had farted in the kitchen. I do not know if
Soderbergh was just following the screenplay or if he was told to give
it a happy ending that over-explains everything, leaving no sense of
mystery and easily spotted plot-holes.Of course, even with the out-of-place, poorly written surprise
conclusion, Side Effects is still better than the majority of thrillers
being produced today. And though it disappoints, the ride up until that
point was mesmerizing and thought-provoking.
