10
Don't believe the negativity.

I refuse to believe that this is an awful movie that users around here
with such abysmal ratings and thoughts wants you to believe it is. If
you happen to read those reviews you'll find that they are only
perturbed that the movie and it's story is predictable, filled with
clichés, fast paced or being an idiotic film or the fact that they
still don't like the idea that Marvel is being owned by the Disney
Company and it's certain characters have received some brief changes.I'm really starting to think that those users didn't take the movie
seriously, just because a certain movie happens to be a "Disney" movie
it does not mean that every movie from them should be the considered
for doing the same typical actions. Big Hero 6 delivers more than just
of those prejudices for what Disney is famous for.If you really want to know how the movie was, let me "just a little
bit" tell my experience with it. First of all the beginning of movie
worked fine, it showed a good-spirited brotherhood with Tadashi for
caring his little brother Hiro and giving him his thoughts of what he
really should do with this gift.Hiro as the main character reminded me a lot of Peter
Parker/Spider-Man, sure just like him Hiro was a flawed character but
in the movie it showed him how he shouldn't be squandering his gifts as
well. I didn't find him bratty or annoying, you will find that deeply
inside of him he's a good person despite being a little shy to show it.The supporting characters are not ghosts or unnecessary filler they are
indeed one of the important keys to this movie and its title. We do get
to learn them well enough. What's wrong with a movie that happens to be
a little fast paced? Fast paced movies can be entertaining too guys,
remember Inception? But unlike that movie I got to learn the supporting
characters well and they're likable as well with their own
personalities. Just to inform it wasn't that extremely fast to follow.What about Baymax? He is in my personal opinion one of the best robots
in movies I have seen. I was glad to see him being both likable and
smart at the same time. I had so much fun to see him learning about the
humanity from both Hiro and his friends especially the Fist-Bump
scenes.Of course this movie was based upon the Comic books but I don't really
understand why some people think that it's title should have been
changed just because it didn't become the movie they expected. Look the
movie is about how the team got created in the first place while
showing a good story and reason to their build up. I strongly disagree
that it should have been called Big Hero 1 or 2 no, no, no you must be
kidding here :P.But most importantly I'm happy to see that Big Hero 6 managed to
deliver good moralities. I haven't seen a Disney movie having so many
good thoughts since "Wreck-It Ralph". I dare to say that this movie
surpasses my disappointment from "Frozen". This is not an idiotic film,
there's plenty of both the entertainment and good moralities that I
don't think I've seen from other previous Disney movies. Like (just an
example): be careful for someone you don't know or trust yet. See?And another thing, ignore those who says its a kids flick and that
stupid prejudice about "animated films are for kids only". No! Everyone
no matter the age should see this. I wasn't angry at all to find out
that it won its Oscar for Best Animated Feature Film and I'm happy that
finally a movie with such good-spirited presentation got what it
deserved.
