7
Sing is not worth singing praise about. It was just alright. Mediocre.

Besides Disney & Pixar, Illumination Entertainment has been on
something of an animation roll as of late, ever since 2010's
'Despicable Me'. Despite, most of their films, not being hits with
critics, their movies continue to make mad cash. Sadly, their newest
movie 'Sing' is one of their weakest. Directed & written by Garth
Jennings and co-directed by Christophe Lourdelet, the film tells the
story of a group of anthropomorphic animals such under-appreciated pig
mama Rosita (Voiced by Reese Witherspoon); the gentle son of a gorilla
crime boss, Johnny (Voiced by Taron Egerton), punk-rocker porcupine Ash
(Voiced by Scarlett Johansson), arrogant mouse street performer, Mike
(Voiced by Seth MacFarlane) and shy elephant, teenager Meena (Voiced by
Tori Kelly), who has the pipes but not the confidence, all entering a
singing competition, hosted by an ambitious theater-owning koala Buster
Moon (Voiced by Matthew McConaughey), who needs a hit show to save his
beloved theater from foreclosure. Without spoiling the movie, too much,
I have to say, the way, they introduce all these characters in the
beginning of the film, was very awkward. The quick fast jump
transitions was just too much. It seem, early second that it was
moving, without giving enough time to establish, who they truly are. I
really didn't like it. The film pacing was all over the place. Another
problem with this movie is how many songs, were feature in this film.
80 songs ranging from the 1940s to 2010's is way too much for a jukebox
musical. Because of this, the film's music felt more like an endless
amount of swiping through Pandora than a great use of storytelling
device. Plus, of the many, many pop songs used in this family film's
soundtrack, there are a few that are rather explicitly not
kid-friendly, including "Butterfly" by Crazy Town, which is subtly,
about cunnilingus, and "Anaconda" by Nicki Minaj, which is explicitly
about having intercourse. So that was weird. Honestly, the movie could
had work better, if they allow a few songs to sink in, throughout the
film. Instead, it felt more like white noise, for most of the 110
minute film, until the final act. Despite that, I do like the last bit
of the movie, where the songs do come to characterization the revealing
thoughts and feelings of a given character. For example, 'Shake it off'
by singer, Taylor Swift, show Rosita's story arc, as she wants to prove
to her family what a talented singer she is. Another is "I'm Still
Standing" from music artist, Elton John is about someone who was under
a negative influence, and who managed to break out of it and stand
strong without it. A perfect fit to Johnny's relationship with his
father. The same, can be, with 'Set it All Free' by songwriter, David
Bassett, 'Don't You worry about a thing' by Stevie Wonder and 'My Way'
by singer, Paul Anka. It reflects about their live, and having no
regrets on how they lived it. All amazing performances from all the
voice actors, even if the Seth MacFarlane one seem the most generic in
how much, he sings it, outside from this film. Still, if I had to cut
one, it would be, his, since it didn't seem like his Mike character had
a personality arch to be nicer. He is a rat in the beginning, and
still, a rodent in the end. All he manage to do, is waste screen time.
However, I can praise the other actors in the roles, they were given.
Each one of them, made it, their own, despite some of their cartoon
animal counterpart having some characteristic stereotypes that can be
view as racism like having black gorillas as violent thugs or sexism,
like one character being ignored by her husband until dressing up in a
promiscuous cat suit, trigger him to like her. In my opinion, it wasn't
too jarring as it was in Disney version of talking animal kingdom,
2016's 'Zootopia' with its gender, socioeconomic status, and ethnicity
thoughts of prejudices and discrimination. While, 'Zootopia' is by far,
the better film, since it was thought-provoking and had better jokes. I
thought 'Sing' did have some moments that really pull you in. The movie
did had some humor that was a bit interesting. Great use of
foreshadowing, and like I said before, the characters backstory is what
makes this movie and their drive to win the money, unique. Yet, I do
have to say, I hate how the film abandoned the competition part, toward
the third act. It lesser the pressures of them, trying to achieve their
goals. I would love to see, some of them, fail at it and one had
success, like any other competition show. Yes, it would had be, risky,
but it would be more like it is in life and would show that not
everybody can have success. In my opinion, the ending was a little too
child-friendly. After all, in true-life, not everything can be patch up
with music. If anything, solo success destroy family units, not bring
them, closer to together. Overall: Due to a few missteps, 'Sing' is not
worth the price of admission. Still, it worth checking out as a rental.
It's a fun movie, but it falls short of being great.
