6
An Entertaining Mess

Modern exploitation guru Quentin Tarantino serves up historical revenge
once again. His last film, INGLOURIOUS BASTERDS, had the German Nazis
getting theirs, and now, with a good German on board (in fact he's the
villain from the last film) we're out to set things right in the
American Deep South, two years shy of the Civil War… Although the first half takes place on the road from Texas to
Mississippi as bounty hunting dentist Dr. King Schultz recruits a slave
named Django to help him find three outlaw brothers (Django alone knows
their appearance). These are the more spirited and deliciously
cutthroat segments as our heroes partner up and, as Django puts it,
"Kill white people for money." Christoph Waltz (Schultz) and Jamie Foxx
(Django) are a good team, and while making mince meat out of their
targets, the bloodshed is something to marvel. But Tarantino throws in awkward bouts of humor, derailing the intensity
of the moment. One particular scene where a group of rednecks complain
about not seeing through masked eyeholes (including a very distracting
cameo by Jonah Hill) feels like Mel Brooks clumsily intruding Sergio
Leone.After Django helps Schultz with his job, it's time for the doctor to
aid his more-than-capable partner rescue Django's wife Broomhilda, who
resides at "Candyland," an infamous Antebellum plantation run by the
sinister though much too youthful Calvin Candie.While Leonardo DiCaprio has more than capable acting skills, and savors
the gloriously tyrannical racist dialog, there could have/should have
been a backstory on why the owner of a plantation looks fresh out of
finishing school.For a man who's supposed to have a lifetime of seething venom oozing
from his veins, those desperately piercing blue eyes seem more confused
and frustrated than cold and calculating, making Tarantino's purposely
overboard racism more of a crutch than weapon for the DiCaprio
character (perhaps Don Johnson, who played a wily brothel owner in a
previous scene, could have taken this role… he had the age going for
him and with that, soulless eyes that look like he's seen – and been
through – pretty much everything).But Leo's not alone. He's helped along by the most wicked of Uncle
Tom's played by Samuel Jackson, whose spitefully cantankerous Stephen
figures things out before his boss. This is a nice role for the QT
stock actor, who has sleepwalked through many roles post PULP FICTION
and JACKIE BROWN. Although his feeble mannerisms often slow down the
performance.The main problem with UNCHAINED is how long Tarantino stretches scenes
with dialog. While the actors, especially Waltz and DiCaprio, have a
blast with colorful monologues, you'll often forget there are other
characters on board – and most of the speeches fail to serve the plot.
That being: the duo pretending to buy Mandingo slave fighters when they
really want the girl.With all the deals and discussions going on, the much-anticipated
reunion of Django and Broomhilda is lost in the mix. Not even Django's
surreptitious trigger finger (whenever she's treated badly) adds worthy
suspense, which, during this overlong stint at Candyland, is very much
needed.But there's not all downtime at the mansion: a particular Candie
lecture involving a slave's skull does successfully perk things up,
providing DiCaprio a good five minutes of sheer unapologetic villainy.
Then, after a shocking twist, it's Django alone who must save his girl.Jamie Foxx, having played a quietly brooding second fiddle to Waltz so
far, makes up for lost time with heated gusto. This third and final act
involving a group of Australians being duped by Django, who's learned
the art of waxing poetic, is replete with the bare-knuckle action we've
anticipated all along: although the large chunks of bloody guts flying
off each gunshot victim seems like Tarantino doing an imitation of
himself. There are some really neat montage sequences and beautiful locations,
but some of the music, especially that of the rap nature, seems too
modern for the time portrayed. And the editing feels somewhat limp
without QT's longtime collaborator Sally Menke, who died a few years
back: Particular flashbacks and hallucinations are often confusing and
awkward.A pretty good ride, much better than Quentin's last two films (BASTERDS
and DEATH PROOF), yet there needed a much tighter/sharper vehicle for
our title hero to deserve the fanfare of the literally explosive
finale.For More Reviews: www.cultfilmfreaks.com
