1
A New Low For X-Cremental Filmmaking

Project X (2012) Stars: Thomas Mann (Thomas), Oliver Cooper (Costa),
John Brown (J.B.), Dax Flame (Dax) Director: Nima NourizadehDown through all the years of movie making, there have been certain
films that leave a unique taste. Some leave a taste of satisfaction,
whereas others leave the opposite. Yet even the worst films can be
saved by something. Maybe the music is great, or a character is
interesting. It may be unintentionally funny. Then there are films like
''Project X''. That rare cinematic beast: the movie with no redeeming
features. I've seen a diverse amount of films, and I can safely say
that ''Project X'' is the worst one I've ever encountered. I'm not
exaggerating. To elaborate...The ''plot'' is simple enough. It's Thomas' 18th birthday and his
parents are leaving for the weekend. However, his ''friend'' Costa
wants to use the occasion to hold ''the most epic party ever'', all at
Thomas' house. With the help of a nobody called J.B., Costa hopes the
party will make himself and Thomas ''cool''. Soon enough, Thomas' house
is flooded with hundreds of high-school idiots and everything
predictably goes to hell. Filming this terror is Dax, a quiet kid who
becomes creepy for no real reason. Can our loser heroes resolve the
carnage before Thomas' parents arrive home? Not if Costa has anything
to say about it...The ''shaky-camera'' style of filming is headache-inducing as always.
Each ''plot point'' is separated by a montage of unerotic shots of
girls lifting their shirts, and idiots gurning at the camera. All of
this is scored to hip-hop drivel and booming bass that assaults your
senses. But where ''Project X'' truly fails is in its characters and
''comedy''.Simply put, Costa is the most horrible character I've ever seen in a
film. He makes Eric Cartman look pleasant. This tanktop-wearing scumbag
dominates the film, and is obviously meant to be the ''funny''
character. The one everyone quotes. Yet his onslaught of racist and
homophobic bile makes you want to punch him even harder. Other
characters treat him like a king of cool, and he treats them like dirt.
For example, he brands the non-drinking Dax a ''faggot'', casually
blows fag smoke at a baby and manipulates his ''best friend'' in order
to get laid. Result: He ruins everyone's lives, destroys Thomas' home
and gets away with it without a shred of remorse! Not only that, his
actions are glamorised at the film's end. Ferris Bueller he ain't.The other characters don't fare any better. Thomas could be sympathetic
if he didn't blindly follow Costa. J.B. is the obligatory ''fat kid''
and only exists to be the butt of Costa's depraved jokes. Dax is only
there to film the insanity and hide in the bushes, covertly filming
peoples' private business. The only sympathetic character is an angry
neighbour who comes to complain about the noise. For his troubles, he
is shot with a taser, threatened by two junior psychos and nearly has
his home torched by a drug-peddling maniac. We're told this innocent
man has a baby! So, this apparently makes his suffering ''hilarious''
and makes Costa look like ''da bomb''. What a party-killer. To make a long story short, the film's bizarre message is that as long
as you look cool, it's okay to destroy peoples' lives and houses. Even
Thomas' dad is impressed by the chaos his son has helped to create, as
well as some newscasters and Jimmy Kimmel(!) So, disgraceful
characters, mind-numbing music and crass stereotyping of teenagers help
make a truly monumental piece of cinematic vileness. I lost hope when a
dog was tied to balloons and sent into the air, while an idiot went
''OMG it's a flying dog.'' Cue facepalm.Please spare yourself from this film. You won't regret not watching it.
I already did that so you won't have to.
