7
This is a highly suspenseful and cerebral mystery , filled with twists and turns

Mystery , intrigue about bizarre facts happen in a morgue .The same
team - actress (Belen Rueda) , producer (Mikel Lejarza , Mar Targarona)
, screenwriter (Oriol Paulo) , cameraman (Oscar Faura)- who made ¨The
orphanage¨ and ¨The Julia's eyes¨ bring us another suspenseful film , ¨
The body¨ or ¨El Cuerpo¨ . The picture is thrilling and some moment
brilliant , and the actors are quite reliable as Jose Coronado and Hugo
Silva . And again a wonderful Belen Rueda as a nasty woman in a movie
with intense sequences of tension and suspense . It deals with a
veteran detective called Jaime Peña (Jose Coronado) searches for the
body of a femme fatale (Belen Rueda is sensational in one of her best
films along with ¨El Orfanato¨) which has gone missing from a morgue .
As main suspect there appears her husband Alex Ulloa (Hugo Silva) .
Alex is detained and finding alone in the morgue , he is terrorized by
strange events , surrounded by corpses and then weird deeds take place
. The film contains tension , thriller , drama , mystery , plot twists
and shocks , including decent scares with tense sequences especially in
its final part , in a unexpected denouement , near of the end .
Hitchcock-style psychological thriller , being surprisingly good and
compellingly realized . The original as well as entertaining idea is
overspread throughout the movie , but not totally satisfactory ,
including conventional pitfalls . The main cast is frankly fine , such
as José Coronado as Inspector Jaime Peña who bears a dark past , Hugo
Silva as upsetting Álex Ulloa , Belén Rueda as Mayka Villaverde , a
selfish and domineering woman and the young lover Aura Garrido as Carla
. The motion picture is pretty well , although sometimes stagy and
packs excessive turns ; however is entertaining for continuous suspense
. Sinister and mysterious atmosphere plenty of lights and shades , it
is finely photographed by cameraman Oscar Faura . Suspenseful and
stirring musical score by Sergio Moure who previously composed
successful films as ¨Unconscious¨ and being expert on frightening
atmosphere such as ¨Thesis on a Homicide" and ¨Kidnapped¨ . The film was well produced by various producers , such as Joaquin Padro
, Mar Targarona and Mercedes Gamero ; all of them have produced a lot
of successes in the new Spanish cinema . Being professionally written
and directed by Oriol Paulo who formerly realized only short movies and
wrote ¨The Julia's eyes¨ . The movie will appeal to suspense
enthusiasts and Belen Rueda fans . Rating : Good , better than average
. It's well worth watching and contains some really thrilling scenes
and disturbing images .
