2
An Affair to Forget

Apparently, the novel this movie's based on came out more than half a
century ago and the movie version should've been released in about half
that time in order to be fresh, daring, original or topical. But,
today, it's just out of place.Sure, Carol, the movie that is, shows us a ton of 1950s women who like
to smoke and eat in restaurants. Repeatedly. It's a wonder none of them
coughed once or gained weight since that was the bulk of the film. In
between those smoking and eating scenes were dry spells of two
character drawn to each other for chance coincidence of two women
liking other women. As good of actresses as the leads are, I never
bought their chemistry or depth other than they both happened to be
lesbians.Basically – and that's what this is, basic – two women meet. One rich,
the other aimless. One getting divorced, the other clinging onto
affection. Suddenly there's a road trip to clear the title character's
mind after the thought she might lose custody of her child in the
divorce. Forced romance ensues and…the rest is spoilers, albeit
obvious.I didn't find the story compelling, or even interesting enough to care
about any of the characters. Rooney Mara's Therese, the lost one,
spends the grand majority of the film just staring off into nothingness
while, I suppose, we're supposed to see depth in her. (Hint: I didn't.)
Cate Blanchett's Carol, the richie one, seems to be in another movie,
in another room, just reading lines from the script.It would be easy just to call this movie boring and dismiss it. But, it
really is that. Barely anything happens and the stuff that does, I've
seen countless times before in both gay and straight forbidden love
films. Only, those movies had complexity, decent to great
cinematography and chemistry between the leads…so we could, you know,
root for the forbidden love.Hell, this one was so dry, I was only told the mother, Carol, is
heartbroken she can't see her child after the divorce. I never once
believed Carol couldn't live without her daughter. She was, again, just
reading her lines.Sadly, I don't have much positive to say about this. I wanted to like
Blanchett, as I almost always do, but I didn't. I wanted to marvel,
once again, at Mara, but she seemed as lost as her character. I did,
however, really like the ex-lover character of Abby, played by the
wonderful American Horror Story regular, Sarah Paulson. She would be my
only vote here for an award nomination. But, even then, I wouldn't be
voting for her underused part.I didn't hate this, or even really dislike it that much. I would've had
to care more to think that hard on it. It's just a movie I do regret
seeing and won't be visiting Carol again.
