2
Superfluous, meaningless, self-indulgent, teenage twaddle

Right, where to begin? I was recently driven away from watching the
final 40 minutes of this film at The Showroom in Sheffield by a
complete lack of any story/plot and some of worst dialogue I have heard
in a very long time. As another (unfavourable) reviewer commented
previously, the dialogue is that of a 1st year Arts student trying to
sound cool and interesting in front of their teacher who they are
obsessed with- when in reality it sounds like a car-crash in the form
of words. Just to provide some context, this is only the 2nd film I
have ever left the cinema before the end for- the 1st being Gus Van
Sant's 'Paranoid Park', another totally uninspiring, pointless film.
And I don't want to give the wrong impression, I actually LIKE slow
films when done well *See 'Once Upon A Time In Anatolia' by Nuri Bilge
Ceylan or 'Stalker' by Andre Torkovsky- masters of that particular art
form, they make this film look like it has been made by Usain Bolt in
comparison. But where Ceylan and Tarkovsky succeed in intriguing the
viewer with meaning and engaging characters, this is pretentious drivel
of the highest order.There are not enough words in my vocabulary to express my absolute fury
& disgust at what I was made to endure, and when I said "made", that is
purely my own insistence on seeing things to the end, in case the film
comes up trumps. In this case, I doubt that anything so fantastical
could have happened in those last 40 minutes to make me change my mind
about this film.The only positives you can take from this are that the music is good
and the scenes of Detroit and Tangier are pleasing on the eye. The
acting is OK but they are made to spout the most pointless claptrap
that you start to question just how good these actors are, which is
definitely not fair on them. After deliberating on whether to leave the
cinema before we did for a whole 20 minutes, the final straw for me
came when Eve said Adam, "have you got a bit of old carpet?". I would
rather have spent my afternoon disposing of my old carpet down the
skip.
