4
Yet Another Clichéd and Predictable Young Adult Film

The age of the young adult franchises are upon us now more than ever
with yet another entry in the 'Divergent' series being released. Maybe
it's just me, but I'm growing tired of weak films filled with same old
clichés and unoriginal story lines based around the genre of 'young
adult sci-fi'. Sure, a lot of people can say the same thing about the
overabundance of superhero films, but there's a clear difference in
quality. But the bottom line is that I'm just not the audience for
these films.Allegiant directly follows the events from Insurgent after the demise
of Kate Winslet's Jeanine character. Naomi Watts reprises her role as
Evelyn and pretty much follows the same unfortunate path that Jeanine
did as leader of the dystopian Chicago. Four and Tris, played by
Shailene Woodley, lead a small group of survivors into the outside
world which was teased at the end of the last film. From there, every
cliché you can possibly think of, follows. The characters who you think
will die, die. The people who you think will be good or bad, end up
being good or bad. There is nothing surprising or noteworthy about the
film's plot.The positives do however come from some of the performances. Theo James
continues to be a pleasant surprise and does as much as he can with a
weak script. He has a definite future in the film business. Woodley is
solid as she usually is and so is Jeff Daniels and Naomi Watts. The
problem is that the film around them is average at best. The pacing is
painfully slow at times and nothing really happens until the final 20
minutes. Of course, it's set up for an unnecessary and unplanned 4th
film purely for the reasons of making money, because there could have
easily been an ending here. Overall, a weak script and horrible green
screen moments end up making a disappointing third entry in the series.+Music+Performances from James and others-Green screen moments-Pacing-Nothing original and full of clichés4.8/10
