8
A breath of fresh air

I just saw an early screening of the movie at a local Cinemark in
Texas. It was really good! Had a very unique and fresh feel to it. Hailee Steinfeld did a fantastic job selling the role and coming across
naturally as a seventeen year old trying to figure out life. She has a
natural talent for comedic timing and she was just downright enjoyable
to watch in this movie as her character Nadine. While being a immature
teenager with next-to-no friends who feels like she has the worst life
ever, she surprisingly has a lot of depth. Most of her conflicts she causes herself due to her stubborn and
self-loathing personality. These things along with her insecure
personality make for a realistic approach to a seventeen year old
constantly desiring to fit in but not possessing the social abilities
to do so. She is not the most likable person but as the movie
progresses she slowly starts becoming more tolerable. Other conflicts relate to her brother Darian (Blake Jenner) who she is
envious and resentful of, best friend Krista (Haley Lu Richardson), and
occasionally her mother (Kyra Sedgwick) as well. The cast great job
overall and I would have to say there wasn't really any performance
from this cast I did not enjoy watching. I already mentioned that Hailee nailed her role, but it was Woody
Harrelson as Nadine's teacher Mr. Bruner that completely shined in
every scene he was in. I could have watched Nadine and Mr. Bruner in a
classroom for the entire movie, because their comedic chemistry was
such a pleasure to watch. Mr. Bruner is a cynical school teacher that
is constantly being bombarded by Nadine with the drama and troubles she
goes through on a frequent basis. The scenes with his character always
had the theater laughing and he added a great touch to this film as her
teacher. There were only a couple of issues I had. While Nadine was an very
enjoyable character to watch, it was sometimes hard to believe her
situation being as bad as it was. Being played by Hailee Steinfeld, she
is not exactly unattractive even without make-up. One scene when she
dresses up in the movie she is downright stunning, which makes me
wonder why she didn't just dress this way all the time? That is instead
of complaining about how much she hated her face, voice, etc. They did
a good job attempting to dress her in a way that she would not appear
as attractive, but you can only do so much as Hailee is naturally
attractive and this made her troubles at times unbelievable. There would be several scenes in the movie where she would be unable to
relate or socialize with others, such as at a party. She would state on
several occasions that she hated how insecure she was and hated several
of her characteristics, but then scenes later had no issue going
swimming alone with a boy for several hours and not appearing socially
awkward in the least. These inconsistencies made it a bit hard to
narrow down her personality but it did not take away from the
entertainment value of the movie. Overall I really enjoyed the movie and believe it was very well done.
Nothing too serious but definitely a breath of fresh air in this type
of genre.8/10
