6
An amiable diverting film about a family of writers and their experience of love over the course of a year.

In its short life this film has undergone several name changes. For its
debut in Toronto it was entitled Writers, then it got changed to Stuck
in Love to now A Place for Me. Personally I prefer Stuck in Love.
Bookended by the thanksgiving holiday it's an amiable diverting film
about a family of writers and their experience of love over the course
of a year.Poor William Borgen's (Kinnear) is having trouble writing after his
wife (Connolly) left him for another man. He is having a "friends with
benefits" relationship with his neighbour Tricia (Bell). To pour salt
into the wound his daughter Samantha (Collins) has just had her latest
novel published. But Samantha is unhappy to, unable to be emotionally
intimate with men and permanently angry with her estranged mother. A
class mate (Lerman) a fellow writer and part time musician attempts to
get to know the real Sam. William's son Rusty (Wolff) a Stephen King
devotee is in love with the pretty troubled Kate (Liberato) who decides
to take his father's advice 'a writer is the sum of his experiences: go
get some.' Over the course of a year the writer/director Josh Boone
explores the travails of this family of writers. Boone's film recalls a better film of its type Curtis Hanson's Wonder
Boys which had an acerbic script from Steve Kloves. That told the tale
of a writer struggling to deal with his wife leaving him amidst a bout
of writers block. Amidst the comedy it had an edge which this film
lacks. It feels a little underdone a draft shy of memorable. The cast are all fine though, Kinnear underplays nicely, and he is an
observer to the action going on around him. Kinnear is one of cinemas
best reactors. Connolly and Collins even look remarkably like a mother
and daughter, Collins (daughter of Phil) has the juicier role and Boone
gives her some smart dialogue to highlight the intelligence behind the
beauty. Wolff a newcomer is a promising newcomer as Rusty.By the rather trite yet optimistic conclusion love has been rekindled,
delivered heartbreak and even the death of a loved one is rather
coarsely explored. As the family gather around the table overlooking
the glorious ocean, about to gorge on a turkey the music rises and the
melodrama of the last year has finally ended.
