2
Revenge of the Department-Store Manikins

This movie cost a reported $120,000,000. In only 2 weeks, it's already
doubled that take at the box office, but what I'd like to know is where
all that money went. Not on sets or locations, since it's mainly set in
the woods. Elegant costumes, to be sure, but you're not gonna blow 9
digits' worth of bucks on epaulets. The effects are sparse and nothing
special. Fersher not on the writing (execrable screenplay by Melissa
Rosenberg).So it has to have been on the actors. And boy, did they ever NOT get
their money's worth. The entire film consists of people standing around
like statues, reading dialog to each other, with an occasional flicker
of attempted facial expression. Really, this is not an exaggeration.
80% of the film is literally people just standing there like an array
of department-store manikins, spouting inane, vapid dialog.The entire premise of the film is based on the idea that the Volturi,
self-appointed overlords of the vampire world, will not tolerate a
human child being turned into a vampire (with some justification, based
on terrible experiences in the past, when the tykes had tantrums and
couldn't control their appetites). And now the Volturi mistakenly
believe that Bella and Edward's new child, the regrettably named
Renesmee, is one such, and they're coming to wreak vengeance on her and
the entire Cullen clan — having politely given several weeks advance
notice. All of this could have been cleared up with a little home
video, or perhaps a Skype call. Ditto for the Cullens' attempts to
round up witnesses to little Nessie's amazing growth spurt (newborn to
an apparent age 6 in a couple of weeks). Could they just ring up their
friends on their cell phones or e-mail them? Nooooooo, gotta travel
twice around the world to ask them in person. And then they all show up
in the Pacific northwoods, where they get to stand around like statues
like everyone else. When there finally IS a flurry of action, the
cameras move so rapidly and jerkily that you can't get any sense at all
of who's doing what to whom.This is a terrible movie, all posing and posturing and protestations of
undying love less sincere than a Twinkies commercial.
