5
Star Trek: Middle Age Crisis

The ages-long rule says that whatever the case, the captain is the last
man to abandon his ship. So when in the very opening of Star Trek
Beyond we find out that James T. Kirk grew tired of the burden of his
father's legacy pressing on his shoulders and wants to give up the conn
for good, it's not the most promising start. As it turns out, Captain
Kirk is far from the only person out here whose mind is occupied with
the heavy thoughts of existential nature: this time the whole film
feels like a reflection on one's duty, destiny and purpose. Pretty
symbolic, considering that just recently we've lost two actors playing
prominent Star Trek characters...Still, on the surface, there's nothing wrong with the mission of
Enterprise this time. The ship and its crew still boldly go where no
one's ever gone before. However, it seems that, by following the trend
of exploring the deep space of character psychology, the film loses
focus on the mission itself. The potentially catastrophic decisions are
made with a childly easiness and without proper preparations, the
captain decides to put the whole ship at risk because of some
stranger's words. And the further we go, the sloppier it gets.My first guess is that, in the vastness of space, the filmmakers simply
ran out of ideas. Star Trek used to be the (mostly lighthearted and
optimistic) adventure kind of space movies, but since Into Darkness
we've witnessed the arrival of Guardians of the Galaxy, the epitome of
unseriousness, so I guess the writers didn't want the franchises to
feel too similar, especially since they both have Zoe Saldana as a
major character. So when the old screenwriters quit and Simon Pegg was
summoned to make up for it, apparently he had to bite on more than he
was able to chew.So, at the end of the day, Star Trek Beyond feels really
half-processed. No true consistency, no impressive adversaries, a total
McGuffin as the main threat, a lot of undercooked secondary characters
and a plot spread so thinly across so many small details that it feels
all over the place. Even the references to the old school, the
trademark that made GotG cute and standing out, feel forced and
ridiculous here. So, after the gripping intensity of the previous
installments, Star Trek Beyond feels painfully slow, overloaded with
non-necessities and, at times, plain dull. This is definitely not the
legacy that the franchise deserves, so I really hope they do it justice
the next time, or don't do anything at all.
