8
Wonderful Dark Adaptation of the Classic Fairytale

Once upon a time, King Magnus (Noah Huntley) and his Queen have a
beautiful daughter, Snow White, who is raised with her best friend
William. When the Queen passes away, the King grieves her death but has
to fight against a dark invader army. He rescues a beautiful prisoner,
Ravenna (Charlize Theron), and on the next day he marries her. On the
wedding night, Ravenna stabs King Magnus on the chest and brings the
enemy army led by her brother Finn (Sam Spruell) that destroys the
King's army. Ravenna imprisons Snow White on the Northern Tower of the
castle while William, his father The Duke and a few survivors escape
from the castle.Years later, the kingdom is completely depleted and Queen Ravenna, who
is an evil witch, keeps her beauty draining the youth of young ladies.
When the Magic Mirror tells that Snow White would be the source of her
immortality, she asks Finn to bring the princess to her. However, Snow
White (Kristen Stewart) escapes and flees to the Dark Forest. Queen
Ravenna brings a Huntsman (Chris Hemsworth) that misses his wife and
she promises to bring her back to life provided he catches Snow White
to her. But when he captures Snow White, he discovers that the evil
Queen lied to him and he becomes the protector of the princess.
Meanwhile William (Sam Claflin) learns that Snow White is alive and he
heads to join Finn's men to meet her. The Huntsman and Snow White meet
the eight dwarfs that bring them to the magic Fairytale Land. When they
are attacked by Finn and his men, William also finds them and the group
heads to the Duke's castle with the intention of beginning an uprising
against the Ravenna. But the evil Queen will try to get her aimed
immortality."Snow White and the Huntsman" is a wonderful dark adaptation of the
classic fairytale "Snow White" by the Brothers Grimm and adapted to the
cinema and immortalized by Walt Disney. The story is excellent, despite
minor flaws like for example Snow White running and swimming after
years imprisoned in a dirty tower, and is supported by a great
screenplay, magnificent cinematography and CGI and good acting. There
are unbelievable negative reviews in IMDb and my only remark is that
the talented Kristen Stewart has never been more beautiful (actually,
he uses the word The Fairest) than the gorgeous Charlize Theron,
despite their difference of ages: the Magic Mirror is wrong. My vote is
eight.Title (Brazil): "Branca de Neve e o Caçador" ("Snow White and the
Huntsman")
