8
Drac's pack is back+1

When I first heard this movie was announced I did not know what to
think. The first one was entertaining, witty and brought a new spin the
old story of a dad not thinking the "slacker dude" is good enough for
his daughter. There have been many occasions where sequels either
aren't as good as the original or wear out the original concept too
much. This movie thankfully does neither of those things. From start to
finish this movie feels fresh and unrestricted by the expectations set
by the first.If you've seen any of the previews you already know the plot.
Johnathan, the human from the first movie, and Mavis, Dracula's own
daughter, get married and have a child which they are raising in
Dracula's hotel. Count Dracula, proud of his own heritage as a monster,
wishes for his grandson becoming a vampire like himself and is
concerned when he does not show signs of being a monster. He also
wishes to raise him the traditional monster way. This of coarse begins
to clash with the human teachings from the other half of his family and
cause the conflict of the entire movie. Said conflict is whether or not
young Dennis should be raised in the hotel or in the monster-less safe
human world. Though this plot sounds like the first one remixed, I feel
it is more of a continuation as good sequels should be. The animation is on par if you've seen the first movie, which is not
bad. The animation of the first movie was active and full of life and
that same attention drawing quality animation is here again. Everything
in this movie flows to an unseen rhythm and nothing feels stiff or
artificial. That's not saying there aren't a few scenes that are more
dynamic then the first movie, because there is, but as a whole if you
liked the animation from the first movie you will like it here as well.As far as the characters go everyone is as kooky as they were in the
first movie. Adam Sandler's brilliant comedic version of Dracula taking
center stage, leading the still funny renditions of classic movie
monsters. As Dracula, Sandler is just the right amount of hammy without
it being off-putting. Such a performance makes it seem as if the over
the top way movie monsters acted in our films was just the "old way" of
acting for them.The mood and colors used in the movie are a great mix of themes. The
moody backdrops with dank dark colors fit the horror movie style the
characters in the movie originate from perfectly. Then add some bright
colors to mimic the happy comedic tone of the movie. Combining this
together you have a brilliant mix of happy and spooky that made both
the first movie and this one enjoyable for everyone. When it comes down to it Hotel Transylvania 2 is a heartwarming family
movie full of comedy that everyone, whether you're big or small, can
enjoy.
