5
'Sex and the City' for Single Guys

"That Awkward Moment" is a romantic/sex comedy about three male best
friends in their twenties living in New York City. Two of them, Jason
(Zac Efron) and Daniel (Miles Teller), work all book cover designers in
a publishing house. The other, Mikey (Michael B. Jordan), is an
emergency room doctor. While Jason and Daniel are happily swinging singles with their rosters
of girlfriends, Mikey has just been told by his wife that she wants a
divorce. All three guys promise to each other that they would all
remain single together. Unknown to his friends though, Mikey strove to revive his marriage with
wife Vera (Jessica Lucas). On the other hand, Jason meets and gets
close to a new girl Ellie (Imogen Poots). Daniel begins to see his BFF-
and pick-up partner Chelsea (Mackenzie Davis) in a different light. Can
all three yuppies actually keep steadfast in their fraternal pledge?Zac Efron is undeniably fit for this charming yet shallow and arrogant
character. It seems though that he had a step backward from his serious
portrayals in "The Paper Boy" and "Parkland" to find himself in rather
embarrassing scenes in the first third of the film (they were funny
though). However, in the final third, Zac was more in his element. His
final monologue alone reaffirms his status as romantic lead. This was
despite my opinion that his Jason and Ellie do not really jive
together.Miles Teller plays the raunchy, noisy, annoying friend here. He is the
funniest and the most relaxed of the three main actors. He remains very
likable despite his smart-alecky character, coming across as a young
Andrew McCarthy. His chemistry with his partner Mackenzie Davis was the
best of the three pairs in the film. Michael B. Jordan is fresh from his acclaimed performance last year as
an ill-fated ex-con in "Fruitvale Station". His character is the most
stable of the three friends, and his character does not really get too
idiotic situations. He finds himself in more dramatic than comic
moments here, which makes his character feel like an odd man out.The comedy aspect was only occasionally hilarious when an actor makes a
total fool of himself. There are two big comedy gimmicks here that will
make this film memorable. One was when they show Zac and Miles try to
pee while Viagra was still on full effect. The other was when Zac goes
to Ellie's birthday party with his awkward sense of "dress up." Other
than that, nothing really funny, more of annoying, grating and forced.The romantic aspect fared better. It was actually quite well-written,
though treading on very familiar ground of male-female relationships
and commitment phobia. When is going out just simply going out? The
film was quite frank on scenes and language of a sexual nature though,
with scenes of semi-nudity of the three actors. I was surprised to see
this rated only R-13 locally. This should at least be an R-18 for me
because maturity is required to properly understand this aspect of the
film.
