9
Train to Busan Review: An impressive action thriller with surprisingly amazing display of emotions!

Movie: Train to Busan (A) (Why, CBFC India?)Rating: 4.5/5To be very honest, I had never watched a zombie film in my entire life.
I had heard about such films and also realized that mostly Hollywood
produces such films. TRAIN TO BUSAN is an exceptional addition not just
to the list of the best zombie apocalypse action thriller, but also to
the list of best films of world cinema which portray human emotions in
the most realistic and heart-touching way possible. Yes, it's that
excellent. TRAIN TO BUSAN is the first South Korean film to have a wide theatrical
release in India. That attracted too. It was released in India in
English, Hindi, Tamil and Telugu. I watched the film first in Korean
with English subtitles, and then in Hindi. And I realized that the film
manages to convey its message and make you reciprocate emotionally for
the film, whether you watch the dubbed version or the original version.
The Hindi dubbing was good enough to add to the positive feel.The art South Korean filmmakers know is how to add an emotional feel to
different genres. Thus, TRAIN TO BUSAN is no exception as it makes you
feel for every character. Gong Yoo takes his performance to a higher
level and raises the bar for world cinema actors in the climax. He is
extremely likable and excellent. Ma Dong-seok is brave, lively and
energetic too. Jung Yu-mi impresses big time with her beautiful &
emotionally active character. Kim Su-an is cute & impresses with her
strong act in sequences which one can't expect from a child artist of
her age. Other actors too deliver performances great enough to make you
care for them. The film's scale is big, and the visual effects are amazing.
Cinematography is excellent and captures the locales & thrilling action
sequences with plenty of intrigue, while also succeeding in sending
chills down your spine through the emotional sequences. Thankfully,
it's not an Indian film, otherwise filmmakers won't have rested without
adding songs & unnecessary romance. Whatever you see in the film, looks
very, very realistic. The tension is very well built and neither do you
deviate from enjoying the film, nor does the film deviate from
storytelling. The story and screenplay are both excellent, and the editing is
excellent. The only thing that disappointed me was the A certificate
given to it by the Indian Censor Board called CBFC. Why? No nation of
the world gave this film an 18+ rating except India & Malaysia. Leave
Malaysian Certification system because they follow equal rules for all
films Irrespective of the target audience. But in India, films with
dozens of gory violence & bucket loads of vulgarity get a UA (PG)
certificate. TRAIN TO BUSAN is a clean family entertainer despite the A
certificate it has been subjected to. But it's not a mistake of the
makers, so there was no flaw I found in the film.Overall, TRAIN TO BUSAN is a must watch film for any movie enthusiast.
Irrespective of language and nation barriers, the film deserves to be
watched by one and all. And yes, I forgot to tell. This film was the
first one that actually made me cry. No film before had compelled me to
shed tears, but this film did. Even the emotionless will emote. Such
strong is this film. Go, watch it with your family and enjoy it fully,
along with respecting the safe life we have from zombies in reality.
