8
The ugly side of the human condition.

I've always been fascinated by the original Stanford prison experiment.
It always had the ingredients for a fascinating study of human
behaviour. Its conductor Dr. Philip Zimbardo knew that, it just had to
be played out. Of course, The Stanford Prison Experiment is a story
that's been notably portrayed before, such as the 2001 German film Das
Experiment. I remember being a fan of it when I first saw it, but I
admit I can't quite recall it enough to make a comparison here.
Nevertheless, this American version which doesn't make substitutions is
a preferable version, one that makes resourceful use of today's
technology and young talent. There's a dual study going on here. One,
the part that writes itself, a document of the actual experiment. And
the other, an examination of the ethics of the experimenters. Here is
the ugly side of the human condition and our desires to push one
another to feel the sweet taste of superiority.While it may lend the obvious yet compelling results of what imaginary
power and authority does to people, it still needs to be well executed
to work. Fortunately director Kyle Patrick Alvarez and writer Tim
Talbott have the right handling of the material, working with great
economy in balancing its dichotomy's. At first it's disarmingly casual
in the way the volunteers are selected and summoned, making a point of
its randomizations and often offering an endearing and natural sense of
humour. While superficially bleak, it's having fun with the 70s clothes
and oversized moustaches, without peeling back their integrity. But
then real tension, real anguish, and a real sensation of danger and
dread creeps in and The Stanford Prison Experiment becomes deeply
unsettling in its dehumanization techniques. With a careful sense from
Alvarez of how far to escalate each sequence, it rings true to human
sensibilities of what would happen in this unique situation. There's
always a reminder that it isn't real, but it doesn't stop you from
feeling unbearably trapped. This is nature at work, combined with a
touch of modern cruelty.There is a tendency in the film's inherent and forgivably episodic
narrative that it gets you attached to a character they're focusing on
only due to their upcoming exit. Thereby the film loses steam bit by
bit. It gradually wins you back afterwards, but each time it takes a
little longer. Ezra Miller in particular is a highlight of the first
half of the film, formulating some of the most memorable instances of
the prisoner's rebellions and reluctances. He's missed, but his absence
only breeds more tension and vulnerability as we're left with weaker
willed volunteers. If anything, this film is an impressive display of
the best talent from the next generation of actors. Hopefully all to
soon be familiar faces; Johnny Simmons, Tye Sheridan, Brett Davern, and
a guard with the most inventive choice of wording, Michael Angarano,
all stick out among other strong performances. While a crowded ensemble
does mean no character gets to be fleshed out to their full potential,
Alvarez and Talbott at least give room for everyone a time to shine
without any dim spots.On the experimenters end, Billy Crudup is perfect casting as Dr.
Zimbardo. Donning a beard that gives him an uncanny resemblance to
Satan, it doesn't remove that trustworthy glint of compassion in his
eyes. His usual warmth is countered by his malicious intent to shove
the volunteers to their limits and it creates an enthralling inner
conflict where he's finding his own limits. The film admittedly does
lack a female presence giving the nature of 24 volunteers and all the
scientists being men. Its only example is Olivia Thirlby as Zimbardo's
girlfriend who later involves herself in the experiment and becomes a
voice of reason, but a very welcome one. It may have blind spots and a
few stumbles, but it doesn't hinder what the film does right. As I was
completely wrapped in its deft and dense confrontations, I kept waiting
for the film to explode. Perhaps recalling the more gritty approach Das
Experiment took to its second half, instead this implodes, which is a
much more restrained and satisfying conclusion to watch these invisible
social constructs dissolve rather than erupt.The Stanford Prison Experiment's wealth of strong material and
performances are matched by its technical ambitions. The slick
photography makes it cinematic with liberal collages of close-ups and
swift camera moves but still keeping it intimate. When the scene calls
for rigid obedience, any time the camera moves out of line we hold our
breath. It's graded with a washed-out atmosphere, relishing in the
moody darkness. I've been irritated with indie films that abuse a
shallow depth of field in their photography for no good reason, but
this film uses it to isolate you in its grasp and as a result the film
shook me up for the rest of the day. While it gets under the skin of
the prisoners and the scientists, I did find myself wanting to get
behind the motivations of the guards, the most vocal contributors of
the experiment. Instead, thats saved for an epilogue that feels like a
wise afterthought, but it's a powerful note on the personal experiments
we run just because the opportunity is there. The Stanford Prison
Experiment is an ideal taut psychological thriller that bristles with
youthful energy and will mostly likely remain standing as one of the
best of the year.8/10
