4
As worn as the joints on all these aging action heroes

Pierre Morel's "The Gunman" is such a menial cinematic actioneer that
it isn't even worth existing. Being that it's from the same guy who
brought us "Taken" back in 2008, which at least had occasional bouts of
excitement and peril, it's amazing to see a film by him so sterile and
feeble. Worst of all, the film feels so much like a cut and paste
effort to please studio executives with another beginning-of-the-year
action release, made up of odds and ends men in suits think we'd like
to see over what we'd actually like to see, that it's as if we're
watching a film nobody asked for.One of the few positives of "The Gunman" is that it gives Liam Neeson
time to take a hot bath and lather his entire body with Icy Hot. Sean
Penn, the latest candidate in this exhausting line of aging action
heroes proving they can keep up with guys half their age, steps up to
the plate here, playing Jim Terrier, an ex-soldier living in the
Democratic Republic of Congo. Jim works for a humanitarian
organization, and, one day, creates civil unrest and turmoil by
assassinating a corrupt official for a foreign mining company.
Following the event, we pick up eight years later where Jim's wife
(Jasmine Trinca) is now his ex-wife, married to his former coworker
Felix (Javier Bardem in perhaps his weakest role yet), his health is
greatly deteriorating with chronic headaches and fainting, and goons
out to make him repay for his assassination in the Congo.Penn is almost always the center of attention in "The Gunman," which is
fine, as Penn has proved through diverse roles he's capable of carrying
a movie, but the talent on display here is really cut short and given
stupid, half-baked roles to fill. Bardem is laughable, as he spends
some of his desperately little screen time drugged out of his mind,
Idris Elba shows up just when you think the studios forgot to erase his
name off the poster for less then eight minutes, and Ray Winstone, who
plays Terrier's longtime friend, isn't given enough time on screen
either, even though every time he appears he gives "The Gunman" some
sort of life and drive. Why pay the actors so much and give them
prominence on the poster when they you give them nothing to do and make
their appearance nothing more than a glorified cameos? We're living in
an age that's beginning to disprove the power of the Hollywood star
system, yet Hollywood doesn't want to believe that.Not to mention, the aging action hero concept is not only dying out,
but it's getting to be an ugly retread. "The Gunman," in a way, feels
like a direct replica of the Kevin Costner aging action hero vehicle "3
Days to Kill" that simmered in publicity before anyone got a chance to
buy a ticket (though it's one of the few of the genre very much worth
seeing, more so than any "Taken" installment). From the way Penn's
character passes out and gets overcome with headaches and dizziness and
the state of denial his character lives in, "The Gunman" is very much
like the failed clone of that film. The main difference, however, is
while the drama in "The Gunman" feels like a nonsensical, love triangle
convention, "3 Days to Kill" used its drama as a route of humanization.
The "aging action hero" concept has prevented the early retirements and
the wealth of endorsement possibilities for people like Arnold
Schwarzenegger, Sylvester Stallone, Liam Neeson, Kevin Costner, and now
Sean Penn, as a means to make a living, but it's a concept as worn as
the joints on all those men.I feel like erasing my entire review of "The Gunman" and replacing it
with Leonard Maltin's review of "Scooby Doo 2: Monster's Unleashed,"
which ranks as one of the shortest film reviews ever written. "It is
what it is," Maltin simply surmised on the film, an oversimplifying
statement I try my hardest to avoid in life and in writing, but here,
it applies greatly. "The Gunman" is what you'd expect: the acting is a
collection of star-powered mediocrity, the action on display is
surprisingly gory, but wholly unsatisfying in the sterile way it is
carried out, Frédéric Thoraval's editing is all over the place, and the
themes explored in the film are about as generic as the film's title.
Whether or not you'll enjoy it depends on how desperate you are to see
violence, in which case, I'm sure there's something on TNT later
tonight that will serve your need for an adrenaline rush in a much more
effective way, and you won't have to pay any more than you already are
to see it.
