8
Doesn't Deserve the Hate; a dialogue-driven spy movie that does entertain

"The Bourne Legacy" is prequel/sequel/spin-off/reboot of the Bourne
Series. Yes, I know; there aren't many pre-se-reboot-spinoffs out
there.In "Legacy", Jason Bourne is sidelined for Aaron Cross (Jeremy Renner),
another spy in the Bourne universe. Though, Cross is a product of
"Outcome", a program that gave the agent pills called "chems" that
improved their intelligence and physique. Yet, in Langley, Eric Byer
(Edward Norton), an operations director, decides to "cut the program",
which is spy language for "kill everyone involved". Cross teams up with
scientist Dr. Marta Shearing (Rachel Weisz) as they head to the
Phillipines to get the chems, while every operative with a finger and a
gun is on their trail."The Bourne Legacy" has garnered very mixed reviews; some really like
it, some really hate it, some are in-betweeners. I am one who really
liked it. Comparing "Legacy" to the originals, more specifically
"Ultimatum", is like comparing "Batman Returns" to "The Dark Knight". A
good movie to a fantastic one. If "Legacy" was a regular spy movie with no connection to Bourne, it
would definitely be in higher regard. But, as it has the "Bourne" name
associated with it, certain things were expected: 1. Insane non-stop
action. 2. Insane non-stop action. 3. More action."Legacy" is extremely dialogue driven. About 3/4 of this movie is
dialogue. And the dialogue is very technical, and very scientific, and
it flies way over some people's heads. The previous Bourne films were
not filled with this technical jargon. The performances, though, are very good. Renner and Weisz are
absolutely perfect in their roles. Renner perfectly captures the
manhunting super agent with ease. He's a natural action hero, and one
of my favorite actors. Though Edward Norton is devilishly underused.
His character merely sits behind a screen and barks orders. The Verdict: When you go into "Legacy", don't expect insane non-stop
action. Yes, when the action happens, it is really awesome. But this is
a dialogue-driven spy movie with lots of high-vocabulary dialogue. I
really enjoy dialogue-driven films, and this film does entertain. A-
