1
A movie written by frat-boys

I don't usually like to give movie reviews - but it was a hot weekend
and I figured maybe I'd venture out and see what the culture had to
offer. So just how bad was "The Martian?" So bad that after an hour I
realized I would rather be back in the sweltering 97 degree heat than
sitting in an air conditioned theater listening to anymore inane dialog
(lines like "F**k you Mars!" and "I'm going to science the S**T out of
it!") In fact it would appear that a prerequisite for going into the
space program is at least six months of doing stand up. (BAD stand up.)
Why does everyone (and I mean EVERYONE) in the movie sound like one of
those guys on "The Big Bang Theory?" Snarky and idiotic and always
cracking wise. Also: Why did every character, while typing, READ what
he's typing out loud? Has anyone ever done this EVER? And what was with
all the expository dialog, (the whole script was expository as far as
I'm concerned) Throughout the movie Matt Damon talks into a video
camera, making a diary and yet he only says things that everyone who
would potentially WATCH the video would of course already know, things
like: "Oh yeah, did I tell you? I'm a botanist." It's clear he was
attempting to speak directly to the viewer and NOT the imaginary
audience in the movie itself. This is the laziest kind of writing there
is. They don't know how to deliver plot anymore except to dump bowling
balls of ham fisted information in your lap; telling you things you've
already figured out in the most obvious way possible. That meant that
there was absolutely ZERO tension. It was like reading an instruction
manual for a microwave oven. "How do I grow potatoes? Oh look there's
some poo." (cue the laugh track) And Ridley Scott's direction was as
slack as an industrial film. False stakes, false resolutions, false
falseness. Now,I know I only managed to make it through the first hour
or so; maybe it got really good after that, but I was starting to feel
my brain cells beginning to atrophy so it was from a sense of self-
preservation that I skedaddled out of there when I did. (And don't get
me started on the disco songs and requisite jokes about 'bad musical
taste.' It was just more target-market reconstituted nostalgia-bait.)
If there is a more unoriginal, un-involving, unbelievable waste of time
out there, I haven't seen it. So of course: Line up the Oscars!
