3
Boldly Going... Nowhere!

The Star Trek universe, resplendent in Gene Roddenberry's vision of a
future wherein mankind has finally "got its act together," while its
social and economic problems are generally a thing of the past. Not in
JJ Abrams' universe however, in which a corrupt Starfleet Admiral and a
freshly revived genetically engineered 'John Harrison', an alias for a
more familiar Star Trek adversary, take it upon themselves to create
havoc with savage acts of treason and terrorism respectively.With seeming discount made to Roddenberry's unique take of Star Trek,
evolving around the prevalent Hollywood ethos of filling seats at the
local multiplex, Abrams' crafts, what I would term, a popcorn movie
with plot-holes aplenty. With its target audience seated in place
however, doubtlessly willing to overlook the obvious whilst
simultaneously blinded by the startling visuals and 'tacked-on' 3-D
(the film wasn't originally shot in 3-D, instead the process being
added in post-production) this 'casual' viewer can safely check their
brain at the door and, in all likelihood, enjoy...In this befuddled story, with its foot stuck firmly in Trek's The Wrath
of Khan (1982), Into Darkness hauls its audience onto a seeming
roller-coaster ride, dragging the viewer from one outrageous action
set-piece to another, while its central characters are barely given a
chance to 'grow' into their respective roles.In a likely nod to Trek VI – The Undiscovered Country, Sulu is afforded
a brief turn in the captain's chair (a role which at least offered the
actor some nifty poker-faced dialogue), whilst Chekov is contrastingly
tucked away within the pipework-strewn bowels of the Enterprise' engine
room. Scotty, meanwhile, refusing to sign for a delivery of
conspicuously 'shielded' torpedoes, resigns himself into the background
with his unusual but interesting little alien friend. This is clearly
Kirk's film however, while his relationship with Spock (and by
extension Spock's relationship with Uhura) being about the only things
explored here. Worst of all however is Karl Urban's Doctor 'Bones'
McCoy, who is virtually confined to pitching nostalgic-tinged quips:
"My God man, I'm a doctor not a nuclear torpedo technician," a
character so painfully underused here – particularly given the actor's
obvious talent in this role.Evolving around two villains, each of whom possessing completely
different agendas, 'John Harrison' (Benedict Cumberbatch) and a
warmongering Starfleet Admiral (Peter Weller), the latter of whom
taking command of a freshly constructed battleship class vessel named
USS VENGEANCE. Despite a promising start however, having chased
Harrison to his conspicuous Klingon hideout, Kirk is somehow
'manipulated' into seeking the terrorist's help; an inconceivable
decision given the character's explosive introduction - which also
ignores the obvious danger he poses. And let's not forget the supposed
personal anguish felt by Kirk, of which Harrison had been its
mastermind. Oh well, things disintegrate further when its finally
realised just how incredibly stupid Kirk has been, trusting a known
terrorist whilst the viewer, during the film's final reel, is woefully
pulled along during their frantic re-attempts at his capture.With an ending pulled directly out of The Wrath of Khan, albeit with
Kirk and Spock on opposite sides of the radiation screen doors, I was
beginning feel as though I had been robbed of my admission: the
contrived nature of this protracted scene, deriving itself virtually
word-for-word from its thirty-year-old original, played out while the
audience undoubtedly watched in astonished déjà vu. I use the term
'contrived' given that, not unlike the life-restoring 'Genesis Planet'
seen in Trek's The Search for Spock (1984), the answer to Kirk's mortal
dilemma was really only a hypo-spray away...As a Trek fan, I was bitterly disappointed here: the filmmakers might
well have just re-shot Nicholas Meyer's film entirely. Sincerely what
an utterly shameful and wasted opportunity all this hokum was.When I emerged from the cinema, I was somewhat stunned; processing what
I had just witnessed on-screen. And after having slept on it, I was
finally able to articulate the next day. What I had seen wasn't so much
Star Trek – a series I so dearly love and consider myself a lifelong
fan of – but some cheap (albeit very expensive, costing well over £120
Million) and certainly pale imitation of a film series that deserved
far better scripting and storyline than this. These wonderful
characters – legendary even – each of whom a household name, whilst
some having inspired many a fan to seek similar professions in the real
world, reduced here to mere caricatures' of their namesakes.Over-shadowed by the film's ample and certainly showy special effects,
these characters seemed stunted and confined instead of simply being
allowed to develop properly.Such a shame. 3 out of 10
