8
It works for the most part

From what I read in the credits, this is based on the characters
created by Clancy, and it seems to have the right idea, and a very
talented writer to set the basis for it. Chris Pine has done great work
as Kirk in the "Star Trek' newest reincarnation, and I was a bit
hesitant to accept him in this new role. Then I thought if Harrison
Ford had managed to embody three or four of cinema's most interesting
action characters, Pine had at least a good chance. Pine does very well
in live interviews and is a decent actor, very charismatic. Ford is
great on screen even though he's not the most exciting interviewee. The
premise might work.Then I saw that Brannagh would helm the picture and costar in it, with
a little help from another interesting actor, Costner. He started as
the double-spy in "No Way Out" and did well. There's a dark side to
him, so I figured he would do well as CIA operative. The film seemed to
be moving well."Shadow Recruit" has Pine working as financial CIA agent who discovers
some rather covert manipulations of the market. He knows he has to
travel to Moscow in order to set things straight. Somehow it was never
explained to him that he might have to face bullets, race cars, and
endanger his life. After a brief introduction which lets us know how he
is recruited and gives us a bit of moral background, Pine is off and
running all over Moscow, facing the film's archenemy, his fiancé, and
some really bad traffic in Moscow.The film has good pacing, and the effects are pretty decent. Yet, there
is a bit missing the target. It might be the underdeveloped villain,
and the whole complicated situation which combines the financial
maneuvering with the possibility of very lethal damage to a big
metropolis. It works best when our hero tries to avoid elimination, or
he's trying to stop someone from hurting him or his wife.It's a January film, so there might not have been much expected from
it, and if it develops into its own franchise, it has a strong
likelihood it will succeed. Pine has very good chemistry with his
co-star. I hope they come back.
