1
Yeahhhh!  Graphics! Action scenes!  AWESOOOME!

Let's kick off with the score I've given it. 5/10. That's for the
reasonable job with the comedy, design, and things not related to story
and pacing (with the exception of Gollum and the cave scene). I am
tired of saying "The graphics are great, but..." I have rated it 1 here
to reduce the average in order to reflect reality and not the fanboy
love-in.I am not going to sugar-coat this film or give it a good review just
because people tell me I should. I am sick to death of sheep. I don't
care if this is Tolkien or Jackson or how much money it took to make
the film. If it's bad, it's bad.Graphics count for nothing. The reason I watch a film is primarily for
a great story and well written characters (I have to CARE about what is
going on). I don't get dazzled by graphics anymore (if I ever did at
all), and 3D action films do not make a film good. So right there is
the problem with The Hobbit. The story is shallow and pretentious and
cardboard. Let's run through why the film had me rolling my eyes
throughout:- The introduction is way too long.-The pacing is dire (and scenes that weren't in the book have been
added).-One brainless action scene after another for no other reason than to
eat screen time (because the book is 300 pages and they are trying to
maximise profits by having 3 films at 3 hours each). Watching 2 rock
monsters fight for minutes is not captivating or cool, it's boring.-Implausibility factor 10. I understand this is a fantasy. I understand
that if everything was ultra realistic it would end up boring, but for
heaven sake, that does not mean you can get away with what happens in
this film. EVERY single scene shows something that would ordinarily
kill someone. Fall down multiple ravines, battle 100's goblins with
just a few men, rocks the size of cars flying at you... and no
scratches, no deaths. It just doesn't work.-Lazy writing. You know you are witnessing a lazy-ass story when your
heroes are saved at the last minute EVERY time in multiple scenes.
Where does that leave us? It leaves us with all main characters intact
and no dramatic tension. Every scene you see a massive rock crush a
character you know they aren't dead. Every time you see them perilously
close to the edge of a cliff, you know that even if they fall, they
will be saved and/or survive. Further to this point, smaller problems
exist such as Bilbo never handling a sword to suddenly taking on killer
beasts like he has been to He-Man training school.-Cliché crap. The way Bilbo goes from being an outcast to being
accepted is contrived and rushed and totally obvious. It just smacks of
lazy cliché writing. The acting that goes with it is not good either.
Kind of like "I once said... you weren't one of us... OH how wrong I
was!" *Roll eyes time*. Then you have the White Orc that Thorin said he
had slain, and you just KNEW it was coming back at the end for some
sort of showdown, didn't you? Talk about obvious. I blame the film for
this because the scenes involved in the exposition were way too
see-through... might as well have had Thorin wink at the camera! That
brings me onto the whole "Thorin dislikes Elves" angle, where you know
the Elves are suddenly going to become important allies just so we can
have a totally obvious and expected reversal. Wow, Thorin, you got
Bilbo wrong and you got the Elves wrong too! DRAMA.-Lack of character development (Think Final Fantasy XII if you are a
gamer). This was the stake through the heart of this film... Most of
the dwarfs are completely redundant and I could not identify or even
accept Bilbo. This was due partly to the lack of character development,
partly to the script and partly to the actor. Same goes for Thorin
except the scenes he is in feel more like a bad soap opera than they do
a "blockbuster" film.It is just dull and lifeless and stupid. You shouldn't do things just
because you can. The LOTR trilogy for the most part had decent pacing,
and it didn't do things too fast, too soon, or for the sake of it. The
original trilogy suffers from some the complaints above AT TIMES, but
nothing like The Hobbit does... The Hobbit is in a league of its own. I
went to watch an engaging movie and I got a cartoon.The use of CGI is also glaringly obvious and fake; like with the
prequels of Star Wars, when the movie cuts between humans and CGI
blobs, your brain is onto it. Stop relying on CGI for everything. It's
getting annoying, not to mention OLD. At least Jackson makes real sets
so it isn't a total wash out.There is some real potential in this film and it is squandered; whether
that's because Tolkien wrote a flawed book, whether it is because he
wrote a book that doesn't take well to a feature length movie or
whether it is because Jackson messed it up, that's what we ended up
with.The Hobbit should have been 2 films, and making it 3 has been the final
nail in the coffin.So, I am sat here mightily annoyed that once again graphics and self
indulgent, completely pointless action scenes have trumped good
storytelling and pacing.Of course, the film is still entertaining at times and the 3D visuals
are fun, but for me it is a massive disappointment.Visuals can not MAKE a film, but when used like in The Hobbit, they
sure as hell can break it.
