7
Pixar's latest effort enchants us with stunning visuals, and charismatic characters, but misses the X factor that makes Pixar film's great

This should have been an easy review to write. Brave should have been a
film that cemented itself as one of the all time greats, a necessary
addition to any Top Films list. It should have been a film that claimed
a place in our hearts as so many other Pixar films have in the past.
But it's not. And writing this review is proving anything but easy.
It's hard because I'm sitting at my Dell Latitude feeling bewildered at
how a film from the best animation studio in the world left me feeling
lukewarm at best.A bit of background on the film first; this film went through two
directors. After Brenda Chapman left the film for reasons I don't know,
Mark Andrews was hired as a shoe in. This wasn't the first Pixar film
to have multiple directors, just unplanned multiple directors. This is
where my major problem with this film stems. Everything from Brenda
Chapman is textbook Pixar class and charisma, but once Mark Andrews
gets the reins (and you WILL know when it happens), the film takes an
abrupt and uncomfortable shift towards the dark, and really challenges
the boundaries of PG. It feels like two different films tacked on to
one another with Gorilla Glue, it's as if the directors had no
collaboration with each other. A real shame because up until it takes
this dark turn, the rest of this film is a class act bursting with
potential.However to lament on the pitfalls is to ignore the positives. Pixar
created two characters with copybook classic credentials in Princess
Merida, and her father Fergus. Merida as the independent,
self-confident, inurbane princess has a tongue-in-cheek charm and a
personality that brings a genuine smile to your face. The other hero of
character is Fergus, his character of a bumbling king with an
overpowering queen is cliché, but he's executed brilliantly and is the
provider of the majority of humor on Brave. Another immensely
impressive aspect is its supremely dazzling animation aesthetics, the
resplendent beauty of the Scottish countryside sometimes stealing
scenes from its characters. Whether or not you agree that's brilliant
is more subjective.Now this may seem like the ranting of a spoilt wannabe movie critic
weaned on delusions of grandeur, and hollow satisfaction from demeaning
films with hype behind them, but I can assure you my size 10.5s remain
firmly on the ground. This film is still a damn sight better than a
majority of animated films out there, and it no doubt sets a new bar
for animation quality other films won't be able to reach without a pole
vault. I generally like this film and its good moments are plentiful
and remind you why we love these films so much. Pixar films are utterly
infectious when done correctly, Brave isn't up to the standards of
their best, you won't fall in love with it, but forget the scale of its
predecessors and you'll definitely be impressed by it.
