7
I don't get the negativism about this one ...

I see only samurai before me.After reading some reviews about "47 Ronin", I expected a terrible
Hollywood attempt to make a film about a Japanese legend. In the
international press, the movie has been mercilessly, how appropriate,
put to the sword. Some of the jargon on "Rotten Tomatoes" : cloddish,
dour, tedious to watch, a funeral march, humorless as your junior high
principal, as Japanese as a grocery-store California roll, Keanu Reeves
looks as miserable and bored as the audience ... ". And it goes on like
this. The 13% score is in that case logical. It's obvious that Keanu
Reeves is seen as unsuitable for this role as a samurai.Well then there is something wrong with me, cause I didn't really saw
it that way. Personally, I have a feeling that this is just another
exaggerated hassle and rabble rousing in a negative way. "Gravity" was
praised by the experts and overwhelmed with Oscar nominations
(erroneously , except for the technical part of course). "47 Ronan " in
contrast gets the full load and then got slated.On 3 February 1982, there appeared in the weekly magazine "Spirou " a
new comic hero, Kogaratsu, a samurai who became a ronin, made by
Michetz . On the front page it said « Kogaratsu , a comic like you've
never seen before ... ". Since the 70s , I am an avid reader of this
magazine, and have therefore read the first episodes with growing
amazement. It was a totally different way of approaching a comic and I
also devoured these stories . What was so unique about this comic
besides the style ? That was the introduction to a unique Japan : the
traditions and customs that surprises us western people, the loyalty,
the honor, the calmness and serenity, the rituals, the mystical and
magical atmosphere. All contained in this comic, and to be honest, I
thought that was also present in "47 Ronin" .This action-adventure film went on for two hours and was finished
before I knew it. Kai (Reeves) is a half-breed, half-Japanese,
half-British, which was found by Lord Asano in the woods. Asano took
him under his wing. However, Kai was never fully respected and
ostracized by the other samurai led by Oishi. One day their master
Asano is sentenced to death by the shogun Tokugawa Tsunayoshi and the
samurai are banished and became ronin. Kai is removed and sold as a
slave. Eventually these samurai take revenge with the help of Kai for
what was done to their master.Keanu Reeves actually did a great job playing the role of Kai. He looks
a bit Asian and he also has the right appearance. Reeves really has
such an apathetic and emotionless facial expression. But most Japanese
people also have that look, so he fits very well in between those other
samurai. Besides, Tom Cruise already played such a part as samurai in
"The Last Samurai". And to be honest, I really think Cruise wasn't
suitable for that. That the Japanese are speaking a flawed (although
not as flawed as stated) stuttering English, didn't bother me. You can
enumerate many WWII movies where the Germans always speak English with
a greasy dialect. Or even more recent in the movie "The Family", where
an entire village in France speaks flawless English. You can be certain
this was a commercial decision to keep it English and ask Keanu for the
title role.The film has a variety of beautiful images of nature and the community
where Kai resides. Smooth action and battle scenes with other samurai,
mythical creatures and magical characters. And a lovely surrounding
with lavish and colorful settings and costumes. Various times we are
treated with stunning digital effects. The orange-colored monster with
six eyes and an immensely dangerous swishing tail. The witch Mizuki who
repeatedly changed form, moving around like a flapping garment and
adorned with Medusa-like winding tresses. The most successful effect
was the low hanging clouds which formed human figures. The test the
samurai had to undergo in the forest Tengu was pretty exciting. The
grand finale is the storming of the palace of Kira.An underrated action movie mixed with elements of a fantasy. I was
afraid that Reeves would look like a Japanese "Neo", but it turned out
better than I thought . A wonderfully successful film for me.More reviews at http://opinion-as-a-moviefreak.blogspot.be/
