10
Neitzche, Darwin, Bergman, McCarthy

The film may be judged upon different merits. Technically, it is a
thing of great beauty in the style of super-crisp cinematography and
high-level production values frequently seen in Scott's contemporary
films such as American Gangster and Prometheus - there is nothing to be
faulted in this area of the film's construction. I believe that the
writing is that which has created the vast disparity in professional
reviews. The New York Times (?) reviewer gave the film her highest
marks whereas others viewed the film as being sub par or even
disastrous. How could this be? Perhaps because of the origins of the
script, from the hand of McCarthy, a literary master. I was recently
watching a Tennessee Williams play adapted for the screen by Kazan, and
I could feel the weight of its literary origins. This was how I felt
watching TC. The plot, setting, and, more generally, the world,
McCarthy creates are vehicles for the theme, that of the human
condition, man's striving, reaching, cunning, and ultimately, his
animal nature. This was the risk taken by Scott in allowing such a
heavy-weight to pen the script, that the film would be driven by theme
rather than plot, and that it would not quite fit in with today's
banal, CGI-infected cinema culture, which, perhaps, it pretended to be
by its glossy exterior. The "overly-long" dialog was especially trying
for short attention spans but those who may have enjoyed the great
cinematic classics over the past century will adore this creation.
Through thematic contrivance is created a jungle filled with various
inhabitants. Through a form of Darwinian selection, the weak are slowly
exiled from this unforgiving world until only those with an appetite
for blood and an intolerance for weakness are allowed to remain. There
is enough blood and perversion to keep you smiling, but the weight of
its humanity will grip your soul. Please ignore the critics, Mr. Scott,
and continue allowing your cinematic muse to light your path, even if
Hollywood keeps telling you that you must help pay the bills. (See Mr.
Welles, not Mr. Spielberg.)
