8
No need to press your luck viewing "Logan Lucky"

Logan Lucky tells the story of Jimmy Logan (Channing Tatum), a man down
on his luck. He lost his job on a construction site because he has a
limp he didn't report when he applied (and doesn't affect his job as a
driver). He's divorced with a wife moving away who has full custody of
his daughter. He has a brother, Clyde (Adam Driver), a bartender who
lost his hand in one of the many wars. It's referred to locally as the
Logan Curse. The Logans' simply seem unable to catch a break.Perhaps, there's a chance for their luck to change. Jimmy reveals to
Clyde a complex heist plan he's put together that could help their
lives exponentially. The plan is so complex it even involves breaking
Joe Bang (Daniel Craig) out of prison, getting his help, and getting
him back in prison without anyone noticing he's gone.Logan Lucky is a fun and quirky movie. It's filled with characters that
could easily be cut from the film and bare no impact on the final
product. Seth MacFarlane's Max Chilblain, Katherine Waterston's Sylvia
Harrison, and Sebastian Stan's Dayton White could all be cut from the
film and the story would play out exactly the same. Their inclusion in
this film is baffling.However, much of that is moot since when this movie works, it very
entertaining. From the cast, the real highlight is Craig's Joe Bang. A
man who appears rather simple and is very crass, yet proves through the
movie that is he unusually intelligent. In many ways Tatum's Jimmy
Logan has many of these qualities though not nearly as crass.Although, I can spend the rest of the review praising the cast for all
doing a great job (even the unnecessary ones), the real star of this
film is Steven Soderbergh's direction. Returning to the chair after a
very short lived retirement. He shows that his four year break has done
nothing to dampen his eye for film.This is that rare film that is equal parts style and substance. There's
a clear story here about how we can create our own luck as long as
we're willing to take the opportunities when they present themselves.
Logan Lucky is hardly a flawless film by any means. It does have a
tendency to meander, but never too far off. Two hours with the Logans
are two hours you won't regret.
