1
The Mummy is a complete car crash

So… Universal want to rival Disney and Marvel by creating a Dark
Universe – a new world reboot of all the classic monster movies such as
Dracula, Frankenstein and The Wolfman. Good for them, it's a brilliant
idea. However, they have shot themselves in the foot with this first
attempt, The Mummy.I usually like to start with the good in a review, but it is difficult
to find anything good about this film. I will give the filmmakers
something – the use of practical effects in the movie was great to see
and I hope more films realise how much better it can make action scenes
look on the big screen. Sadly, this did make the film's poor CGI stand
out like a sore thumb – in particular The Mummy's undead sidekicks
looked like something out of a 90's video game.Tom Cruise plays the same role in this film as he does in every other
film he's in. I'm not a Cruise fan at the best of times; I would like
to say he was miscast and should not have been put in the role; having
said that, I have no idea who should be in the role as it was such a
poorly written character in the first place. The screenplay team (David
Koepp, Christopher McQuarrie and Dylan Kussman) are not a bad set of
writers; but I do sometimes think that the more writers you have, the
worse the script can be. Everyone was clearly throwing ideas all over
the place and then trying to tie them together in to some kind of story
and it didn't work. It's almost like they were so focused on trying to
begin this Dark Universe that they completely neglected the story of
The Mummy. In fact, half way through the film, Russel's Crowe's
dreadful attempt at playing Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde becomes the focus
point of the story!The Mummy is one of those stories that could have strong female leads.
Kurtzman's version fails at this miserably. Annabelle Wallis' presence
in the film is virtually non-existent and the writing made everything
she did very hollow. Rachel Wise as Evie in the 1999 film was a much
stronger and well-rounded character. Then we have Sofia Boutella as the
Mummy girl herself, a tough independent woman, who spends the majority
of the film chasing her lover (sorry...Chosen One!) Nick (Cruise)
across London (yes that's right London, not Egypt!) until she can
finally lock lips with him.The Brandon Fraser version in the 90s was not perfect, but it got so
much right – the action, the adventure, the humour, the story, the
characters. This 2017 reboot has trashed all of that in one very dull
swing. Throughout the film, all I could think to myself is "what the
hell is going on!?" and that is never good.LAST MUNCH: The Mummy is a terrible start to the Dark Universe series,
a huge disappointment for 2017's film output and one of the worst
big-budget movies ever. I just hope Universal learn from this mistake
and try to take this monster world in a whole new direction, or I fear
another car crash may come our way.
