3
So much potential wasted

This film features a comedian cast list that could bankroll a small
country. But even together they could not make a film I want to ever
watch again. I imagine their pay-cheques were so high, they could not afford to
venture out of his apartment, as thats where 75% of the film is set.
They have a few scenes in a school cafeteria and one in a studio for a
TV show, but alas neither of them has Simon's character in them. The talent they had available was exceptional and if Simon was given a
scene on the talk show about the book he was apparently writing - it
would have led to many great one- liners. But the scene never happened.
If he had used his powers on the naughty students in his class, there
is comedy gold to be had. But instead he just does nothing. Its as
though there were tons of set-ups but sadly no pay-offs. Since most the film is set in his flat, I have to believe its due to
budget constraints after paying all the artists and animators. Even the
world changing issue we only ever see through his TV set as a news
report, and never actually see any of it. Then we have Kate, who is a 10 in anybodies rating, and Simon who is
not even in her Universe. She felt so out of place in this film. You
could tell she had three hours of makeup before every scene and her
pedestal lifted her well beyond the reach of Simons character. Nothing
against Simon, but I just didn't feel any connection between them
whatsoever - there was no romance, other than what we were being told.
Then we have the fact that she had three guys making moves on her - she
becomes nothing but a sex object. She had no purpose, plot, story and
even her job which had ties to Simon was ignored. Its just who will be
the first to rape her, and eventually it becomes the one person it
shouldn't have been. Speaking off the rape scene - it appears the editor realised their
mistake and quickly edited in a cartoon excuse to try and soften the
blow a little. But it was too little, too late. She even calls him out
on it later, and then forgives him for it. Why?God Almighty, this film is not. Limitless showed better use of his
powers than this. Even Lucy had a better explanation for how they are
received. It just felt like a rush production in all areas and they
used up too much money on the cast, which could have been put to much
better use travelling the world with the powers he had. His search for
happiness continues.
