9
Jonathon Glazer continues his ascent with another fabulous movie that will entirely divide its audience

You have never seen a movie even remotely like this.It's been a long time coming. Ten years in development, to be precise,
and I've followed the saga throughout.My interest was based on my love of the source novel by Michel Faber
which is a modern classic.Clearly the 10 year development period demonstrated the difficulty with
which the novel would translate to the screen but, in my opinion, it
was worth the effort, and the wait.When I heard that it was in Jonathon Glazer's hands (Birth and Sexy
Beast) I was encouraged, and when I found out that Scarlett Johansen
was to play the central character Isserley (unnamed in the movie but
credited as Laura for some reason) my heart skipped a beat.I was not disappointed, but let's make no mistake, this is a Marmite
movie. My wife was bored to tears. And I can see why one IMDb reviewer
headlines his review "Tedious. Thoughtless. Empty. A failure in all
ways." But I disagree entirely. It's fair to say that the pace is
laconic, but it's a thing of beauty and a movie packed full of ideas,
unique special effects and greatness.If you haven't read the novel you might be forgiven for asking what the
hell is going on in this story and, yes, there are elements of it that
are fully explored. The long section of the movie where Isserley combs
the streets of Glasgow, looking for her victims, with the help of
hidden cameras bringing a documentary feel to the whole proceeding, is
long and a little repetitive. But it's necessary to show the exhaustion
of her task and her eventual disintegration. What's more, it does not
paint the city in an entirely positive light. To that end Creative
Scotland should be commended for supporting it. It's a movie packed
with visual metaphor. There are some moments of horror but they are far
from gratuitous and all completely emotionless which is to be expected
given that Isserley is an alien, devoid of emotion, sent to earth to
farm unattached males for her home planet (not that you'd work that
out).From the opening sequence in which Isserley's eyes are created, to
replicate humans', the imagery is breathtakingly disconcerting. It's
underpinned by an outstanding soundtrack by Mica Levi.Johansonn is magnificent. Isn't she always? She is brave to take on a
role this opinion dividing, and she manages to exude a total lack of
emotion throughout in such a way that, unbelievably, you kind of
sympathise with her role as human culler.Glazer is magnificent. But he always is. Birth is a much underrated
movie and anyone who saw his debut, Sexy Beast, cannot fail to love the
guy.This is a great movie. Rammed to the rafters with original thought.
It's just a great pity so many of you will dislike it so much.
