1
Poor Film Making

I saw the The Master today and was greatly disappointed & here are some
of my thoughts.Joaquin Phoenix is probably to old to play the part of a returning
seaman from WW2. He's in his med to late 30"s and the vast majority of
sailors were in their late teens or early twenties at wars end, little
more the kids fighting wars! Also the accounts I've read about navy
life state that "odd balls" were weeded out pretty quickly as they had
a detrimental effect on morale. Maybe his character had enlisted
straight after Pearl Harbour in late 1941 & they were taking 30+ year
olds at that desperate time & his mental illness wasn't apparent?
Anyway he just appears to old for the part.The promotion of the film suggests that it's about a cult leader and
how he manipulates, after all the film is called The Master. Yet the
film is not about Hoffman's character but Phoenix's so maybe it should
be titled "A Troubled Mind" the diary of a sick violent alcoholic?I don't know if we have received a different cut of the film here in
Australia but Amy Adams has only a very slight role in the film with
only two significant moments. One where she is stimulating Hoffman &
another near the end of the film in England. She is grossly under-
utilised.Phoenix's character is painful, watching this performance was what I
would think it would be like sitting next to Charles Manson on a flight
from Sydney to London. The flights around 22 hours and the film feels
like the same time span. As other reviews have pointed out the story line is, lets say, unclear
and drifts. I've always thought Darryl F Zanuck was onto something when
he would cut any & all scenes that didn't move the story forward, in
this case that's a lot of cut scenes.I was also annoyed that the Hoffman character was only briefly
challenged directly about his teachings. I feel that this was a wasted
opportunity to examine a cult behaving under pressure. Instead we only
see the reaction of the mentally unwell violent Phoenix character.What a shame, this could have been an interesting examination of how
cults build & work but instead we got an incoherent ramblings from a
writer director that in my view has only delivered one film of note.One last thing, 26 people started watching the film, 8 walked out, 3
fell asleep & from what I could gauge no one enjoyed it. I saw 2 people
encouraging the group waiting for the next session to exchange their
tickets for anything else.
