1
A loathsome, painfully unfunny affront to comedy

That's My Boy is content with being a belligerent vulgarian comedy that
it is willing to concoct any setup, any one-liner, or any character as
long as it's on par with its irredeemable crude standard. It's first
fatal flaw is that it erects so many raunchy situations that it
completely undermines the characters that are involved in them, which
is the whole reason we laugh. We laugh not at the situations
themselves, but how these characters react to them. But this is only
the icing on the cake of disgust.Such topics covered in the film are teacher-student molestation,
strippers, poor parenting, child abuse, browbeating the less fortunate,
incest, and many more. Only Sandler would take such heartless and
degrading topics and throw them all into a film where no wit, soul, or
morals can be found. They are employed with such carelessness and such
a disregard for humanity that it becomes utterly revolting. The only
laughs to be found come from, not a main character, but one that shows
up at the end of the film (something you should expect from a Happy
Madison picture). He is Abdoulaye N'gom, who was also in the Sandler
produced Grandma's Boy. How come somebody didn't think to put him as
one of the side characters? The story can be summed up in fragmented
words such as lazy, overwritten, camaraderie, inconsiderate, offensive,
demeaning, and mean-spirited, but let's focus on the plot itself. It
starts out on the ever-so bright note of teacher-student molestation,
where young nitwit teenager Donny Berger is happily seduced by his
teacher, Miss Mary McGarricle in a closet. It results in an unexpected
pregnancy, where Miss McGarricle goes to prison, and their baby is left
with the teenage Donny, who can barely take care of himself, let alone
another child.Donny names the kid "Han Solo Berger," and at eighteen, the kid becomes
estranged from his parents, telling people they died in an explosion,
changes his name to "Todd Peterson," and begins a new life. Donny
(Sandler) went on to live off a six figure deal to sell his story to a
Television show, and carelessly blew all the money, forgetting that he
needed to pay taxes on the earnings. Donny now owes the IRS $43,000,
and winds up striking a $50,000 deal with a filthy reality show
executive to get him, Todd, and his mother (currently in prison) to do
a reunion event on camera. It's scummy and outlandishly selfish.Todd is Andy Samberg, who is stunned to see Donny show up uninvited and
quickly tells his wife's family that he is a close friend of his, and
this leads to some contrived shouting matches between the two as to how
Donny was the worst parent ever. This is true. It's a too little, too
late effort, but Donny decides it's time to make nice with Todd, so he
stays at their house during the wedding to reconnect with his son,
while trying to conceal the fact that he's only there for money.This is yet another Sandler film I like to dub an "anti-character"
study. First off, there is hardly a likable character in the film,
except for Todd, who is just a poor man's version of a neurotic success
story. The character Donny comes equipped with Sandler's most
horrendous accent since his character in The Waterboy, and this could
very well be Sandler's worst film in years (I have not seen Jack and
Jill). It aims to go for the baddest of laughs, but due to the lack of
discipline, plausibility in the writing (why isn't the baby given to
child services?), and the removal of heart in its material, it's a
middle finger to morals and an ode to chaotic, mean-spirited
circumstances.That's My Boy inhabits a world of such cruelty to almost everyone
involved. The males are incompetent caricatures, motivated by ego and
greed, the women are no better than the size of their breasts and
buttocks, shown in a misogynistic light almost saying that women exist
to either show off parts of their body or to be ditzy, foul-mouthed
bimbos, and every middle-age side character is shown as an amoral
horn-dog, both men and women alike. Remember Big Daddy? One of the few
Adam Sandler films sort of slanted and aimed more for children? It
involved a louse who is stuck raising an illegitimate kid for his best
friend. You could sort of label That's My Boy the raunchy sequel to Big
Daddy, an explain it extracted the heart and sentiment out of it. But
saying that would give the film more purpose than it's entitled to.
It's a loathsome, painfully unfunny affront to comedy.Starring: Adam Sandler, Andy Samberg, Leighton Meester, Susan Sarandon,
Will Forte, Nick Swardson, Peter Dante, and Abdoulaye N'gom. Directed
by: Sean Anders.
