7
God Bless the United States of Fun-Stupid Conservative action movies

Like Milius' Red Dawn (though not quite as accomplished technically),
it's both completely indefensible substantively and yet a very
enjoyable action film all the same. It knows what it is - jingoistic,
idiotic drivel - but it's well shot and competently acted idiotic
drivel if that makes sense. Fuqua, in the mold of Milius, really has his heart-thumping loud and
proud as an All-American, but he injects real red-meat and vigor into
his direction of the action, which has its chaos but is never hard to
follow or disorientating (or it's more controlled chaos to put it
another way). Gerard Butler is... as good as he can be, which means
he's alright, as an action hero for the first time in a while, and more
believable than a Leonidas or whatever. Aaron Eckhardt was just one
second away from accidentally yelling "RACHEL!" ala Dark Knight. And
Morgan Freeman looked mostly tired, but could still command the screen
better than half the rest of the people in the room save for Robert
Forster. Oh, and did I mention this movie has a lot of logical gaps
(Dylan McDermott's character, for example), and the CGI, such as when a
certain rectangular monument is destroyed for no real reason except for
cinematic eye-candy, looks so awful that your Windows 95 screen-saver
was more convincing? There is that. Olympus Has Fallen has an innumerable body count, effectively
nasty-cum- stock villains, dialog that is to-the-point and story driven
(even if that story, again, can be pretty stupid, and when it comes to
those nuclear launch codes really needs a Dr. Strangelove in a
wheelchair to come in and explain it to the Pentagon people), and I had
a fun time watching the violence ensue. Perhaps when stacked up against
actual bulls**** like Taken 2 or a Die Hard 5, its cinematic sins are
slightly less egregious- it borrows from other films, liberally one
might say (a little *original* Die Hard here, Air Force One there, any
given hostage- crisis flick there, oh and how about most 24 episodes
crammed into the climax), but somehow it trusts its audience to either
be dumb enough to enjoy the ride, or that the smart people know its
dumb but can enjoy its own dumb logic on its own terms. In other words,
it's patently absurd, and all it's missing is a bald eagle to swoop in
at the end to congratulate the heroes.
