1
Hex-Rated Rubbish!!!

"The Last Witch Hunter" casts spells that are far from inspired and
mediocre at best. "Dungeons & Dragons" aficionado Vin Diesel toplines
this ponderous, PG-13 rated pabulum as an 800-year old protagonist who
struggles with the help of the Catholic Church to preserve a precarious
peace between witches and mankind. Not only does Diesel appear
incredibly miscast as an immortal "Highlander" type medieval warrior
careening around contemporary New York City in a sports car, but also
this witchy washy yarn doesn't surpass superior witchcraft fantasies
such as "Snow White and The Huntsman" (2012) and "Hansel & Gretel:
Witch Hunters" (2013). The chief problem with this lavishly-produced,
CGI-laden extravaganza is that it takes itself far too seriously. Apart
from its dire shortage of humor, this dreary potboiler suffers from a
dearth of quotable dialogue, banal adversaries, and second-rate
supporting characters. Gifted thespians like Oscar-winner Michael Caine
and Elijah Wood shrivel in lackluster roles as our hero's sidekicks who
are designated as 'Dolans.' "Sahara" director Breck Eisner and three
scenarists, Cory Goodman of "Priest" along with Matt Sazama and Burk
Sharpless of "Dracula Untold," have conjured up a synthetic storyline
that generates neither charisma nor spectacle. Actually, they appear to
have imitated the sensational Wesley Snipes' vampire saga "Blade" right
down to its rebirth of an ancient blood demon. Similarly, "The Last
Witch Hunter" should have bristled with non-stop momentum, violently
outlandish combat sequences, and a coherently contrived mythology.
Instead, it degenerates into a dreary mumbo-jumbo melodrama. The most
ambitious CGI scene pits our hero against a clumsy beast known as 'the
Sentinel,' and he destroys behemoth with a sword as if he were a
bullfighter straddling it. This unruly creature resembles a huge tiger
that appears as it if were assembled from wicker and features a jet
engine afterburner for its gullet. Our hero's chief adversary is a
hideous Witch Queen swarming with creepy crawlies who looks like she
has spent too many centuries in a mud bath. Moreover, she boasts none
of the imaginative flamboyance of Charlize Theron's enchantress in
"Snow White and the Huntsman." "The Last Witch Hunter" unfolds during the chilly Middle Ages. A group
of stalwart souls armed with swords trudge through snow-swept,
mountainous terrain to storm an eerie cluster of haunted trees. A
despicable looking dame known as the Witch Queen (Julie Engelbrecht of
the TV mini-series "The Strain") inhabits this stronghold raging with
fire and brimstone. Predictably, she isn't glad to see these bearded
gate-crashers with their religious iconography. This homicidal hag with
her hatred for mankind has already decimated humanity with a black
plague and incurred our hero's wrath. The Witch Queen's pestilence
exterminated our hero's wife and daughter, and his happier times with
them are recounted in several flashbacks. When Kaulder (Vin Diesel with
dwarfish dreadlocks) and the Witch Queen tangle, our fearless witch
hunter skewers her with his flaming sword and finishes her off.
Ironically, Kaulder survives this trial by combat, but his survival
becomes a tribulation. "I curse you," howls the wounded witch. "You'll
never know peace. You will never die."Afterward, "The Last Witch Hunter" shifts its setting from the 13th
century to the 21st century. Our brawny, shaven-headed hero with
neither dwarfish facial fuzz nor noggin fur prowls a passenger jet as
it encounters foul weather. Actually, an ignorant young witch has
smuggled a dangerous collection of runes aboard the aircraft, and she
is to blame for the increment weather. Naturally, our erudite hero
invokes his age-old wisdom and defuses these volatile artifacts.
Nothing about this scene creates either suspense or excitement. As his
own personal reward, Kaulder seduces a nubile stewardess before he sits
down for the last time with his 36th Dolan (Michael Caine of "The Dark
Knight"), a revered Catholic cleric who has spent the last 50 years
chronicling our protagonist's escapades for posterity. Incidentally,
Dolans are members of a covert Axe and Cross society within the
Catholic Church. Like Kaulder, they have devoted themselves to
maintaining an uneasy truce between humans and witches. In "The Last
Witch Hunter," witches walk the earth with mankind, just as vampires
did in "Blade," but few people know about their phantasmagorical
presence. Kaulder and the clerics act as intermediaries who work
alongside the crafty Witch Counsel to keep these necromancers in line.
Kaulder captures witches who illegally practice black magic, and the
Witch Counsel entomb them in a maze of caves.The 36th Dolan is poised to retire, and the 37th Dolan (Elijah Wood of
"The Lord of the Rings" trilogy) prepares to replace him. Although he
saved the 37th Dolan from a coven of witches, Kaulder doesn't
immediately recognize this newcomer. Meantime, dramatic complications
occur when the 36th Dolan appears to have been murdered under
mysterious circumstances by a shape-shifting sorcerer. Kaulder
discovers black magic at the scene of the crime and suspects that his
ancient adversary, the Witch Queen, may have been playing possum all
those years. Along the way, Kaulder recruits a 'good' witch Chloe (Rose
Leslie from "Game of Thrones") to help him sort out the mystery.
Chloe's claim to fame is her ability to cavort in dreams. Happily, she
rescues Kaulder from one disastrous dream after another when the Witch
Queen's evil cronies attack him on several occasions. Our hero believes
the solution to his quandary lies within his "Matrix" like dreams.Ultimately, "The Last Witch Hunter" is largely incomprehensible
gobbledygook. Eisner and his scribes have enormous problems mapping out
their complex witchcraft mythology. They sprinkle bread crumbs of
information about these conjurers throughout the muddled melodramatics,
but seldom does anything about them come across as palatable. Two
surprises occur during these sluggish shenanigans, but neither are
genuine revelations if you have paid attention to the formulaic plot.
The villains don't stand out from the background, and the Witch Queen
is stuck in the mud from the start. Eisner orchestrates several
big-budget action scenes, but these emerge as sloppy exercises.
Altogether, "The Last Witch Hunter" qualifies as hex-rated rubbish.
