8
Charming and endearing!

I admit walking into the theater, I was very excited but also a little
apprehensive. I should not have worried at all though, Fantastic Beasts
and Where to Find Them was incredibly enjoyable! Rowling's magical
world is as alluring and fun as ever! For me, the best thing about this
movie is exactly that. Exploring this world.In the Harry Potter saga, with the exception of Deathly Hallows, most
of the action was confined in Hogwarts. When we were taken out of the
school, the main characters, being underage, were not allowed to do
magic. The novelty in this movie is that we get to follow a fully
fledged adult wizard in an entirely new environment and observe the
dynamics and workings of the magical society.Said wizard is Newt Scamander, a magical zoologist that traveled the
world in order to find and document rare creatures, which he carries in
his magical suitcase. When this suitcase gets mixed up with one that
belongs to muggle Jacob, some of Newt's creatures escape and cause
problems in New York.Eddie Redmayne shines in this movie. He plays a very clearly British,
endearing and slightly awkward Newt, but the character's kindness is
obvious by the loving and friendly way that he treats his magical
creatures. Dan Fogler does a great job as Jacob Kowalski, the muggle
who is suddenly thrown into a world of wonder that existed beside him
all along. He is the one the audience can best relate to, since he
mirrors our sense of marvel. Katherine Waterstone and Alison Sudol also
do a good job as the two vastly different magical sisters, who aid Newt
in his adventure. If I had a small gripe, it would be that the
excellent Colin Farell was in my opinion under used.All in all, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them is a solid and
visually stunning movie that manages to achieve three things.First, although it takes place in the Harry Potter universe, it stands
apart and has its very own story, which can be enjoyed separately from
that of the famous young wizard. Second, it drops quite a few hints and
names, which not only tie in nicely with the stories that we know, but
also serve to set up the next installments, which are rumored to
document Dumbledore's past and connection with Grindelwald. Finally,
the movie features a bustling 1926 New York, which coupled with the
intriguing character dynamics, offers a brand new insight into Rowling
magical world and leaves us poor muggles asking for more.After following Harry's adventures, many of us were left wanting to see
much more of the story and luckily for us, it seems Rowling has that
much more to offer. Personally, I can't wait for the next movie, great
job!
