5
One Chance

There have been many deserving winners and stars that have come from
Britain's Got Talent, including Diversity, Susan Boyle, Ashleigh and
Pudsey, and Richard Jones, but everyone remembers the first ever
champion in 2007, this film is all about his journey, directed by David
Frankel (The Devil Wears Prada, Marley & Me). Basically Paul Potts
(James Corden, with the real Paul Potts as his singing voice) is a shy
young man who suffers terribly at the hand of bullies, and damaged his
teeth following an accident, he has a great love for operatic music. By
day Paul works as a mobile phone salesman for The Carphone Warhouse,
alongside incompetent manager and friend Braddon (Mackenzie Crook), but
in his own time he dreams of being a professional operatic tenor, like
Luciano Pavarotti and Andrea Bocelli. Paul also has a romantic
relationship with supermarket worker Julie-Ann "Julz" Cooper (Alexandra
Roach), he travels to Venice to attend a professional singing school,
where he is mastered at one point by his hero Pavarotti (Stanley
Townsend), who unfortunately gives him hard feedback, and he suffers
terrible ailments that put his singing ability into turmoil. But Paul,
with the support of Julz and his parents, Yvonne (Julie Walters) and
Roland (Colm Meaney), pulls through, and he finally plucks up the
courage to prove his love for Julz and sing for her, they later are
happily married, and Paul is amazed that his singing voice returns.
Then Paul sees an opportunity to achieve his dream to become an
operatic singer, he gets an internet pop-up advertising auditions for
the new talent show, Britain's Got Talent, he and Julz flip a coin to
decide whether to go ahead with it, and the application is sent. Paul
takes his one chance to stand on stage, introduced by presenters
Anthony McPartlin and Declan Donnelly, to perform before the three
judges, Simon Cowell (producing this film), Amanda Holden and Piers
Morgan, and the theatre audience, with his rendition of "Nessun Dorma",
he stuns everyone and goes through to the next round, in the time that
follows Paul becomes a YouTube sensation with his auditions, and goes
on to win the whole competition, make a number one album, and perform
at the Royal Variety Performance before Queen Elizabeth II, and the
success continues for Paul . Also starring Jemima Rooper as Hydrangea,
Valeria Bilello as Alessandra, The Inbetweeners' Alex Macqueen as Dr.
Thorpe and Trystan Gravelle as Matthew. Corden is likable as the every
man with a passion for opera and triumphs over adversity, the film is
played out like a long version of the introduction video you get before
a talent show contestant's audition, with sob story and stuff to tug at
the heartstrings, it is cheesy in many places, but when you know the
true story you can just sit bit and enjoy the amusing moments, the
classic music and the feel good factor, all in all it is a nice
biographical comedy drama. It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best
Original Song for "Sweeter than Fiction" by Taylor Swift. Worth
watching!
