9
Tension galore

"Green Room" follows a vagabond punk band traveling through Oregon,
where they book a show at what they come to find out is a neo-nazi
skinhead punk club. The show goes well enough, but after they become
witnesses to a murder, the group—along with a female regular at the
club— are held hostage at the instruction of the community's head
honcho.I went into "Green Room" with little expectations, unsure of what
exactly to expect; I'd heard good things about it, and the fact that it
was filmed in the area I grew up in further piqued my interest. The
film undoubtedly deserves the critical and public attention it's
gotten, especially from horror fans, though I'm hesitant to necessarily
label it a "horror" film. It's more a suspense-thriller akin to
something like "Panic Room," except with a starkly different setting
and a group of twenty-something punksters in place of the family home
invasion prototype. What is perhaps most jarring about the film is that its entire premise
springs out of a wrong-place-at-the-wrong-time scenario that spirals
entirely out of control. The script and direction lend an increasing
oppressiveness that comes on like a vice grip; the audience can easily
sympathize with the arbitrariness of the entire premise, and the
claustrophobic sense of inescapability is well-drawn out on screen. The
film is nicely shot with emphasis on darkness and its titular color,
and the photography of the landscapes effectively capture the
ominousness of rainy Oregon backcountry.Solid performances from all involved further elevate the film. For a
film that's plot is so constricted, the material demands solid
performers, and we get that from the young cast, with Patrick Stewart
effectively playing counterpoint as the aloof villain-in-charge with an
army of intimidating henchmen. The film's finale is extremely
effective, and, barring a few convenient plot devices, is more or less
believable.Overall, "Green Room" was one of more tense experiences I've had at the
movies in quite awhile. The way writer/director Jeremy Saulnier is able
to spin such an arbitrary, unfortunate situation into an oppressive,
character-driven splatter thriller is remarkable. It may not be enough
to turn off punks from their waking-up-in-urine-and-beer lifestyle, but
it's enough to make any prospective venues in the Pacific Northwest
backwoods seem at the very least questionable. A recommended nailbiter.
9/10.
