8
Not quite horror, but very strong

The Gift isn't strictly speaking a horror movie, but it is a movie
about ghosts. No, not the translucent specters of the dead, but the
ghosts we live with every day, the echoes of our decisions, both good
and bad, and how they affect us years later, change our lives, define
our identities.The story begins with Simon, a well-to-do lawyer running across Gordo,
an old acquaintance of his in a chance encounter after moving to a new
town. Gordo starts stopping by Simon's house unannounced, dropping off
little gifts, chatting with his wife, Robyn. There's nothing inherently
menacing about any of these gestures, but Simon begins to suspect that
there's something just a little off about Gordo. Robyn believes Gordo
is just trying to make friends, but Simon insists that something is
wrong.To delve further into the specifics of the plot would risk spoiling a
deftly plotted mystery. This is a film that is best seen with as little
information as possible, partly because the very genius of the story is
how it plays on the audience's ingrained preconceptions. The element of
mystery isn't just a gimmick leading up to a cheap twist. It's a tool
that's used in the indictment of the viewer, a device that forces us to
consider how we choose who to trust and who to dislike. The film
doesn't just present a skewed perspective, it makes us complicit in
accepting that perspective.The Gift is reminder that the past isn't a thing that simply
disappears. The things we have done come back to haunt us when we least
expect it, and though we might change how we look and where we live,
the core of who we are often remains unchanged, for better or worse.From a technical perspective, The Gift is yet another example of why
Blumhouse is such a powerful presence in the world of genre horror
today. There's nothing too showy or "big budget" happening here, but
the impressive filmmaking craftsmanship on display serves the story
perfectly, and the lead actors all bring incredible nuance and subtlety
to their characters.The Gift is a thriller and a mystery, but it's also a character piece.
It's a lesson about how difficult it is to truly know someone, how
difficult it is even to know ourselves. It draws us in and then makes
us think, and it holds up a mirror to our souls.For more reviews like this check out HumanEchoes.com
