6
It's seem like nobody was home in Daddy's home. This comedy had little laughs from me.

This family duo comedy from mega-stars Will Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg
was no 'The Other Guys' (2010). Directed by Sean Anders, the movie
follows a mild-mannered, devoted stepfather, Brad Whitaker (Will
Ferrell), struggling to connect with his two new step-kids, Dylan (Owen
Vaccaro) and Megan (Scarlett Estevez) after marrying their mother,
Sarah (Linda Cardellini). But just as his new family is warming up to
him as a father figure, the kids' real dad, Dusty Mayron (Mark
Wahlberg), comes to visit with his sights set on winning back his
family. And, as you probably guessed, a battle for the right of
fatherhood ensues in a depressing, unfunny bitter childish action.
Don't get me wrong, I get that Dusty has the right to see his kids, but
here is the reason, why this set-up fails. Who in the right mind, would
allow, the ex to live with them, so he can have time with his kids? Not
only, is the plot so easily could be solve with a strong 'no' from Brad
or his wife, or settle in a legal action, logically, but it doesn't
make any sense, for Brad to keep him, around, after the two started to
butt heads with each other. The conflict was so drawn out, that it
becomes so unrealistic and unwarranted. Not only has this gag, gotten
beyond borderline stupid, but it also became too frustrating to watch.
I really, don't mind, most comedies, when they do this fighting for
custody bit, like 1993's Mrs. Doubtfire or 1979's Kramer Vs Kramer,
because they somewhat give the subject, somewhat emotional weight;
however, in this film, it's still all play as laughs. Seeing, these two
fighting endlessly over the love of their children isn't that funny,
it's just sad. Add, the crass, cruel, and mean-spirited jokes, and you
have a receipt of a very unpleasant movie. I really couldn't stomach,
watching most of this film. If anything, the trailer for this film is
more interesting to watch, than the movie. After all, it showcase most
of the good slapstick humor that mostly got a laugh from me. Other than
that, it's not funny. The characters are all one-dimensional, over-the
top stereotypical and even somewhat recycled. I really felt like
everybody talent was wasted by the horrible written dialogue. Like,
honestly, who in the hell, talk like Brad in this movie!? 'I'm a hot
habanero pepper!?" Who says, things like that!? At least, he's doesn't
have, too many, irritating yelling and screaming scenes in this film,
like his other films. I also hate the fact, that Will Ferrell's
insecure Brad is mostly the same character as he was in 'The Other
Guys', just not a cop. The same can be, said with Mark Wahlberg's
character of Dusty. Supporting actors like Linda Cardellini got it
worst. Not only does, both Will Ferrell and Mark Walhberg don't share
any sign of chemistry with her, at all. She barely has any lines and
barely a character. It's sad, because she's a fine actress. I hate that
she has little more to do than look pretty and warn Brad that Dusty is
a master manipulator. It was a very lackluster role. You would think,
maybe, she would play a bigger part in the film, but no. She has no
say, in anything, what Brad and Dusty is going to each other. Then,
there is the bizarre & completely random subplot featuring Griff, the
repairman (Hannibal Burress) who moves in with the family because Dusty
invited him. Not only does Hannibal's character get really annoying
with the film's overused 'racism card' jokes, but he also takes away,
most of scenes that could had been reserved for Linda Cardellini's
character. It could had been Sarah commentary about why it is wrong, it
was, for Brad & Dusty to fight against each other than this minor
character. If there was anybody, that look good in this film, it had to
be Thomas Haden Church as Brad's womanizing boss, Leo Holt. He looks
like he's having tons of fun and had some semi-alright jokes. Yes, he
doesn't really play much into the plot, but for me, it's was a
blessing, just to have, something different than seeing these two
father figures fight like morons. Overall: Despite the movie, not being
that funny, there are some positive messages to take from this film
about, the benefits of biological and stepparents being around and
getting along, and the fact that jealousy, while understandable, is
toxic to healthy relationships, but in the end. Daddy's Home is a far
cry from Ferrell and Wahlberg's last team-up and that's the sad truth.
