1
Almost everything in "Baywatch" is ridiculous and unfunny.

Fun fact: The original TV show "Baywatch" was cancelled after only one
season. True story. Ratings for NBC's skin-tastic lifeguards-save-L.A.
action-drama placed it in 73rd place out of 103 shows for the 1989-1990
television season… and its studio (GTG) went out of business. But, as
Norm McDonald used to remind us from the desk of SNL's Weekend Update,
"Germans LOVE David Hasselhoff." (And people in lots of other countries
do too!) Keeping the show from becoming a footnote in TV history,
series star David Hasselhoff brought it to first-run syndication, where
it ran from 1991-1999. Having become an international sensation, it
then continued in a new setting, with a mostly new cast and under a new
name, "Baywatch Hawaii", for two more seasons. Along the way, the show
became a major part of the careers of Hasselhoff, Pamela Anderson,
Alexandra Paul, Yasmine Bleeth, Carmen Electra, Brooke Burns, Parker
Stevenson and many others. Given the show's small screen stamina and
enduring popularity, it seems natural that the TV show "Baywatch" would
eventually become the movie "Baywatch" (R, 1:56), much like "CHiPs"
earlier in 2017. Unfortunately, much like "CHiPs", the big screen
"Baywatch" sucks.On a Florida beach, Lt. Mitch Buchannon (Dwayne Johnson) leads a group
of lifeguards that he calls "the elite of the elite". Mitch himself has
over 500 water rescues under his… trunks, while teammates Stephanie
Holden (Ilfenesh Hadera) and C.J. Parker (Kelly Rohrbach) are similarly
brave and skilled. In order to expand their team, Mitch and company
hold try-outs for an additional three lifeguard slots. The new trainees
end up being: the beautiful and brainy Summer Quinn (Alexandra
Daddario), an awkward, out-of-shape but hard-charging nerd named Ronnie
(Jon Bass) and Matt Brody (Zac Efron), a cocky, selfish 2-time Olympic
gold medalist in swimming, who has since become persona non grata in
the swimming world – and in society. (His new job somehow counts as
community service for unspecified legal trouble.) As Ronnie harbors a
not-so-secret crush on C.J., and Brody flirts with Summer, training
commences. Brody has to learn what it is to be a real team player and
that there is more to being a lifeguard than just being able to swim
fast. Meanwhile, a local police officer (Yahya Abdul-Mateen II),
Mitch's supervisor (Rob Huebel), and even Brody, want Mitch to learn
that he is a lifeguard – NOT a cop.The reason that Mitch and the other lifeguards feel the need to act
like cops is found in the person of Victoria Leeds (Priyanka Chopra
from TV's "Quantico"). She's the new owner of a bayside resort called
The Huntley Club and it looks like she's up to no good. We hear her
accused of running drugs… and she doesn't deny it. We see her colluding
with a city councilman (Oscar Nuñez) on some real estate deal… and see
bribes him with an expensive watch. We understand that Mitch doesn't
trust her… and she invites him to a party. At this "meet the neighbors"
gathering, Mitch and company do their best to dig up some dirt to back
up their suspicions, but Leeds is a wily woman and proof is harder to
find than body fat on Dwayne Johnson or Zac Efron. When packets of a
dangerous designer drug pop up, plus a suspicious fire and a couple of
corpses, naturally it's up to a few lifeguards to solve the mystery,
right? That's what the Baywatch babes and boys think anyway. And that's
just part of what's wrong here."Baywatch" is mostly ridiculous and unfunny. What passes for character
development are back stories which raise more questions than they
answer. What passes for acting are one-dimensional characterizations
which aren't believable or even sensical. And what passes for humor
basically falls into one of three categories: references to the areas
of the human body usually covered by swim suits, vomit jokes and seeing
how many pop culture references Mitch can come up with to insult young
pretty boy Brody (although some were funny) – and the best gags are all
in the theatrical trailers. The screenplay, by writing partners Damian
Shannon and Mark Swift, puts the characters in situations which are
more insulting to the intelligence of the average Movie Fan than they
are humorous. Seth Gordon's direction is too weak to make sense of it
all or to give the audience more than a few chuckles along the way.The acting is across-the-board bad, but the worst of the worst is a tie
between Bass, for simply doing a 2-hour Josh Gad impression, and
Chopra, for showing nowhere near the gravitas or menace necessary to be
an effective villain… with a (dis)honorable mention to the usually
entertaining Johnson, who ends up in his worst role since 2013's "Pain
& Gain". For a few amusing moments and for poking self-aware fun at its
source material, the film scores minor points, but it basically can't
decide whether it wants to be a comedy, a parody or a drama and it
doesn't do any of those very well. (But don't gloat Dax Shepherd.
"CHiPs" made most of the same mistakes.) "Baywatch" would be better
titled "No Way Watch". This movie is as lame as that pun I just made.
In a mid-credits scene, Johnson talks sequel with a cast member from
the original TV show. Don't hold your breath, Dwayne. Consider your
movie fortunate to get out of this review with a "D+".
