6
Like a standard Halloween candy haul.

Tales of Halloween perfectly emulates a trick-or-treater's haul in
their Halloween candy bag. There are a few pieces of chocolate and
candy which you want to scarf down right away, more which you eat
hesitantly when you run out of the better stuff, and some which you
flat out throw into the trash. The quality of the assortment of shorts
follows that general pattern. On the delicious side, I enjoyed the opening short (Sweet Tooth),
because it presented a funny and entertaining Halloween legend, with
some pretty excellent gore. It was funny and over the top but it still
remembered to throw some actual horror in there (like a very effective
jump scare that pays homage to Exorcist III). Another good one is Lucky
Mckee's entry "Ding Dong", which stars the most active current horror
queen (Pollyanna Mcintosh) who does a fantastic, hilarious job acting
out her insane character. It is over the top and ridiculous while
exposing sad, deep-rooted feelings. In the middle of the pack (the hard candy and stale gumballs) are most
of the entries. There are some that are almost successful - The Night
Billy Raised Hell was hilarious but mostly due to the amazing
performance of the devil neighbor, he was great; Trick had a very fun
concept which was unpredictable compared to the rest of the film, but
very poor execution (rushed, convoluted, self- inconsistent, and poorly
acted); Grimm Grinning Ghost had exceptional acting with some familiar
horror faces (the girl from Starry Eyes, the psychic from Insidious)
but it felt like a creepypasta come to life (had shades of The Smiling
Man) and existed mostly for the purpose of a very effective jump scare
at its culmination. There are others in the middle of the pack which
aren't even close to successful but are not unwatchable either - The
Ransom of Rusty Rex is "cute" at best and very generic (I saw an
identical short film just a year ago); Bad Seed has two or three funny
lines but is a MAJOR letdown from a director like Neil Marshall (a CSI
parody where the killer is a pumpkin, which would make a good low
budget you-tube or Key & Peele sketch but feels unfit for a feature and
for the running time it got). Then there are the dental floss, apples, and raisins of the pack. To me
personally they had no redeeming value and I did not enjoy any part of
them, from acting to script to visuals. The Weak and the Wicked is an
emotionally uninvolving tale with poor storytelling and severely
miscast actors (the "street thugs" looked like Hot Topic employees).
Friday the 31st, about a Jason-like killer having the tables turn on
him, is the kind of cheesy one-joke short that someone new to After
Effects would make as practice. And finally, the worst of the bunch,
the razorblade inside a piece of candy, is "This Means War", about two
neighbors competing over their Halloween decorations. Both the concept
and execution were amateurish and I don't know how it wasn't axed at
any point. Tales of Halloween is not a great film but at least it is temporarily
entertaining while it lasts (most of it anyway) and is much, much
better than other recent attempts at anthology films (ABCs of Death
1/2, V/H/S 1/2/3, etc). I don't think it is worth seeing in theaters
but I can see it being fun as a Halloween night movie with friends and
beers (for those who are bored of the better holiday offerings, like
Trick'r'Treat).
