8
It's as if they never left

Sequels long after its original is always risky business. Especially
one that I did not think needed it. But director Danny Boyle is back
with a follow-up to one of the most influential British films of
all-time.I had only seen Trainspotting for the first time several years ago. I
remember being quite impressed by it, despite me never going nuts for
drug-related films. I was more interested by the style of film- making
and well developed characters. It also contain one of the most
distressing scenes I have seen in any film.21 years later, and now we see where the lads are now. I saw the
trailer to see if it's going to be worth it, and I was surprised how
good it looked. Some of the dialogue I was hearing sounded like we were
instantly back in this mad environment. With the trailer doing plenty
to get me intrigued, I had pretty solid hopes for a worth sequel.Amazingly, I felt it managed to all come together. For something that
I'm sure Boyle holds very dearly to his heart, you would expect him to
never go near this work again. Especially when he has never done a
sequel before. But we are now here, and I think everyone did a grand
job. I did not get the sense that the makers made this for an easy box
office return. I felt it was there to be an actual follow-up to the
events from 1996, which is fantastic to see. The tone is definitely
being aimed at the people who grew up with the original. With that in
mind, it will be interesting to see how it works to the generation that
are of the age the cast were in the original, and see if it can relate
to a broad age range.The gang are back, and all four of them were great in their
performances. Honestly, it was like they had never left. Ewan McGregor
holds the film well as Renton, has many strong moments and you can tell
he is enjoying getting back in the saddle. Roberty Carlyle continues to
be as hilarious as Begbie was back in the day. Ewen Bremner as Spud
shines the most for me, was given great development and became such a
pivotal part of this sequel. I was really surprised to see Johnny Lee
Miller give a great performance, as it is only recently that he has got
back into movie acting after being busy with a TV series.Another thing some sections of the audience like to see with sequels,
is the level of nostalgia. The use of that and memory was cleverly
done. It felt like it meant something, instead of just making us think
"I'd rather be watching the original".I have only very minor negatives. There were moments that felt a bit
scattered at times and did not feel that well connected to the main
story.I was not expecting this to be so enjoyable. Boyle and his done have
done a great job by keeping this a down-to-earth story and making feel
like it deserves a second installment. I think what the films big
strengths are, is what made the original so successful. The characters
are still as memorable as ever, the writing is sharp and funny when
needed, the visuals are engrossing and impactful, and the soundtrack is
strong. They also managed to make the film worth seeing for people who
haven't even seen the original, which was impressive to see.When you think about it, a lot of Danny Boyle's work is about
friendship, and this one is no different. I will continue to be excited
for his next project, after making what will probably one of the big
surprises of 2017. What a start to the year!Rating: 8/10
