8
Hauntingly Beautiful Gothic Romance

Guillermo del Toro is a director and artist whose films fall into two
distinct categories: big budget English language blockbusters like
"Hellboy" and "Pacific Rim" and lesser known, low budget Spanish
language horror films like "Devil's Backbone" and "Pan's Labyrinth".
His latest film, "Crimson Peak" is what happens when these two worlds
collide, in other words, a big budget English language horror film."Crimson Peak" is set in the late 19th century, first in New York, then
in rural England. Edith Cushing (Mia Wasikowska) is a young budding
writer who is intelligent, beautiful, and strong willed, refusing to
allow Victorian sensibilities dictate what she can and cannot do, and
as a result butts heads with those around her. Thomas Sharpe (Tom
Hiddleston) is an English aristocrat and inventor who is in New York
seeking financial backing for his mechanized clay mining business back
home. When tragedy strikes, Thomas marries Edith and brings her to his
home, Allerdale Hall in Cumberland, where his sister Lucille Sharpe
(Jessica Chastain) is waiting. As Edith tries to fit into her new
surroundings, she discovers that secrets abound and nothing is as it
seems.The visuals in "Crimson Peak" are so glorious, they are almost
overwhelming. The sets are spectacular visions of beauty and decadence
in decay; costumes are intricately detailed and gorgeous; the lighting
and over saturated color bring depth and meaning; the ghosts are
grotesquely beautiful; and, of course, the del Toro trademarks of
insects and clockwork gracefully found their way into the story as
well.Because "Crimson Peak" is a rather large studio production, it is being
marketed to a large audience. I believe this accounts for some of the
lackluster reviews I have been reading. If one is not familiar with del
Toro's prior Spanish language films, they may not understand his unique
cinematic perspective. For some, this will mark the beginning of a
journey into del Toro's fantasy world, for others it will be a
disappointment. For me, it was almost everything I wanted it to be.
