10
Tolerance for All Colors, Creeds, Species and Moviegoers Alike

Every now and then a work of cinema arrives in theaters that completely
challenges one's conception of what a film can be. A groundbreaking
technical and thematic masterpiece, Pan's Labyrinth and Hellboy
director Guillermo del Toro accomplishes something that on paper seems
impossible; what is essentially a comedic Cold War body horror musical
romance between a mute woman and a mermaid. Not only does the modern
master of movie monsters blend such an eclectic variety of genres into
a single storyline, but he also does so without any sense of
convolution or confusion, exhibiting a technical mastery that allows
the film to seamlessly flow between its fantastical elements and social
realism as well as stand as a work of art on its own. What Del Toro's
latest film offers is not merely a stylistic spectacle, but also a
thoughtful meditation on the nature of love and its ultimate lack of
boundaries.Before directing my appraisals towards the film's exceptional ensemble
performances, thematic resonance and technical ingenuity, I feel it
necessary to discuss what's on the surface. The film's production
design is, simply put, outstanding. Set within the cultural bubble of
early 1960s Baltimore, you can tell del Toro feels a genuine love for
the aesthetic of the era, between the beauty of the grandiose operatic
cinema to the humorously polite manner in which the characters converse
with one another. This is contrasted by the grim color palette of the
facility that Eliza (Sally Hawkins) and Zelda (Octavia Spencer) work
in, a white male-dominated hierarchy in which minorities are abused
like slaves. Even outside of the facility, del Toro never shies away
from the darkness behind this maintained superficial beauty. Racism,
sexism and homophobia are ever present as shop owners reject minorities
to preserve their all-white family aesthetic and Col. Strickland
(Michael Shannon) exerts his dominance over the wife of his nuclear
family in a truly sickening way. However, unlike most period pieces,
there is no protest or fight for change. The superficial world remains
solid through every horrible injustice committed, for these characters
live in the 60s, where there is an understanding (or at least a belief)
that things won't change. The characters accept these injustices for
it's all they can do, strengthening and almost excusing the central
interspecies love story so that it resonates all the more deeply.From a technical perspective, the film truly mimics the element of its
title. It's camera-work floats towards and around its characters while
its transitions flow into one another like water. Del Toro maintains
such a rhythmic pace via his use of editing, usually cutting on sound
to craft a film that is as auditory as it is visual. The film's
ensemble of is just as stunning. Against the backdrop of the 1960s del
Toro's protagonists consist of different social outcasts, placing the
authoritative white male in the role of an antagonist who takes full
advantage of his societal superiority complex. Octavia Spencer as Zelda
(Eliza's black co-worker) and Richard Jenkins as Giles (Eliza's gay
neighbor) provide much of the film's comedic relief through their
simultaneous embodiment and subversion of the era's stereotypes. While
one could argue that their roles of the closeted gay confidante and the
black maid are cliché, both characters display a strong awareness for
their prejudiced status, with both resolving to disobey the conventions
society has imposed on them; a decision that sets them apart from most
portrayals of 1960s minorities. Michael Shannon offers another
compelling performance as an abusive sociopath, and some of his actions
(such as the aforementioned scene with his wife) impressively disgust
in a world in which audiences are so desensitized to violence and
on-screen abuse.Supporting characters aside, the standout of this film is without
question Sally Hawkins, whose performance as a mute woman forces upon
her the unique challenge of making an audience empathize with her in
spite of a lack of speech. She does this through her playfulness; her
love of art, particularly music and musicals, the way she tap dances
her way to work when no one is watching, and palpable emotions that
require no voice to express. Her sign language offers one of the film's
most spectacular visuals, and del Toro knows this, choosing to place
the subtitles as close to her hands as possible so as not to detract
too much attention.Though more attention could have been diverted to Doug Jones as the
Asset, and the creature's general quirky mannerisms, it is the scenes
that he shares with Eliza that are the film's most tender. Throughout
Eliza's interactions with her two friends (Zelda and Giles), while it's
established that the two characters care about her deeply, we get the
sense that her muteness is being taken advantage of, as both endlessly
vent their personal struggles and anxieties to her with no one to cut
them off. Such is the reason for Eliza's infatuation with the Asset,
itself a speechless creature that doesn't see Eliza as incomplete in
the slightest. When the two finally bring their relationship to the
next level, like the supporting cast, we the audience have no problem
accepting it. Both employ wildly different means of communication;
Eliza's an organized series of gestures whereas the Asset's are primal
and animalistic. However, when the two finally bring their relationship
to the next level, like the supporting cast, we the audience have no
problem accepting it.The Shape of Water is hardly a fantasy. Ultimately, it's a film about
tolerance. An allegory for all of history's outcasts that attempts to
shine a light on the conditions from which real monsters are born. Like
it's moral message of acceptance, del Toro extends this inclusion to
his audience, accepting fans of all genres, offering something truly
enjoyable for every kind of moviegoer. The Shape of Water is an
extremely confident mesh of comedy, romance, horror, drama and
musicals, with enough technical wizardry to impress any cinephile.
