1
I should have gone to "The Room"

I wanted to see this because it got great reviews. My friend wanted to
see "The Room" at the same time at our awesome Tucson theatre The Loft.
The Room is considered the worst movie ever made and has spawned a cult
following and interactive screenings that involve screaming at the
camera man to focus, and throwing spoons. I didn't get to enjoy that
because I cleverly thought, "why go see a bad movie for $9 when I can
see a great movie for $9?" Boy was I wrong!SPOILER ALERT: IT'S AN ALLEGORY First off, I KNOW IT'S AN ALLEGORY (people here who loved this movie
seem to wave this around like it somehow saves it from how sucky it
is). I'm not stupid. In fact, viewers are hammered over the head with
the idea that it's an allegory so constantly, it's like the movie was
made so that a high school film class elective would have a really good
example of allegory in a movie. Once you get over the amazing and totally surprising and awesome fact
that it's an allegory about class inequality in our world,
etfuckingcetera, the movie pretty much sucks.1. The acting is horrible--maybe not as bad as in "The Room"--but
really pretty bad. The only good role is the young Asian girl - but
really all she has to do is quietly say scary things once in a while
and look a little freakish.2. The dialogue is worse than the acting. There are far too many times
when characters are literally just saying stuff to explain things to
stupid people in the audience. As much as I HATE narration in a movie -
it would have been better than having characters narrate without
supposedly narrating. 3. Just too many plot holes - again, I know it's a sci fi allegory -
but please just make one damn thing make some sense. I will fully give
you perpetual motion - fine - but when the main character, who
(spoiler!), once ate BABIES, gets horrified, HORRIFIED, that the
protein bars he's been eating for 15 years are made of cockroaches
(goodness gracious!)- that's just a stupid unnecessary plot hole. 4. And the absolute worst thing about this movie (big spoiler alert):
POLAR BEARI shoulda gone to see "The Room"!
