1
What a load of tosh

Less than a week into the new year and we have a prime candidate
already for the worst film of the year. Inarritu has shown that his
view of creating a production for the theatre is so hackneyed it is a
rival for Mel Brook's "The Producers" but without the laughs. Here, as
the director, he is self-indulgently showing off his abilities to the
audience - watch me use time-lapse photography instead of cutting to
move the time of the action along; see how I have learnt how to move my
actors around the set from my regular viewing of the"live" episodes of
"Coronation Street"; aren't I clever in the way I track my camera from
the outside of a building into the inside via a balustrade and a
window; what about the way I position my camera within the confines of
a dressing room so that you don't see it recording what's going on
inside - all this trickery highlights his inability tell a story in a
way that involves the audience. I was looking forward to seeing Michael
Keaton show his acting chops in a role that he was born to play -
washed-up TV star trying to make a comeback into celebrity and the
acting game in general but flirting with madness whilst trying to do so
but his "Birdman" alter-ego kept getting in the way at the behest of
his director. But his was not the only talent that was wasted. The rest
of the cast were similarly handed caricature-driven roles that they
could do nothing new with - Edward Norton playing a "prima donna"actor
brought in to bolster the box- office appeal of the play and who has
his own ideas on how to play his role; Naomi Watts playing an actress
given her first role in a Broadway show and being crippled by
nervousness to the extent that she is sick prior to the opening night
performance; Andrea Riseborough as Keaton's new girlfriend possibly
impregnated by him and not sure how to deal with this; Zach
Galifianikis as the producer only worried about the money and the
show's success; Emma Stone as Keaton's ex-drug addict daughter trying
to keep Keaton and herself stable as Keaton goes off the rails - is
there anything new here? I don't think so. The only reason I give this
film one star is because of a short scene between Keaton as actor and
Lindsay Duncan as Broadway theatre critic were she attacks him as a
Hollywood invader of the "High Art" of Broadway and he attacks her for
just being a labeller of theatrical types. This scene happens towards
the end of the film and sadly comes too late to save it from its
crassness. What a film it would have been if this had been the theme
running through it. "The Sweet Smell of Success", "Topsy-Turvy" and
even "The Producers" need not worry about their reputations for
examining the theatre and the folk that work within and outside it.
They are classics. This film is decidedly not.
