10
A great period piece about a forgotten genocide. Superb.

Dear IMDb, Yesterday I stumbled upon an article about a film called
'The Promise' and how it has received an unprecedented amount of
negative reviews on your site. This film has been screened three times,
one being at the Toronto Film Festival on September 11, 2016. And yet
it has over 55,000 1-star reviews. How is that possible? This film is
about a touchy subject for many because it centers around the time the
Ottoman Empire carried out a genocide against the Armenian people. But
since it is not possible that all these people have seen the film
considering the simple fact that it has not been released anywhere yet,
how can people leave negative reviews about a film they've never seen?
In my humble opinion, it really questions your website's credibility.
This film was produced by someone who had a vision and his name was
Kirk Kerkorian. He put many of his earnings on the line to put this
movie into production. The director, Terry George, is one of the most
renowned and respected in Hollywood. The cast is made up of countless
brilliant actors. This film has quality written all over it and yet it
is being unfairly rated down by people who haven't seen it. It is a
known fact that the Turkish government and people have been denying
this genocide for over a century and are willing to go to great lengths
for it to remain unrecognized. But to allow your website to become a
weapon of Turkish denial and propaganda is not the standard that your
company set for itself when IMDb was launched. Your website has always
been a respectable portal of knowledge about all films of the world, so
I am in real disbelief as to why a film that has not been released to
the public is being defamed and down- rated by Internet trolls. As I
said, this whole situation just questions the validity of IMDb. Please
do not allow this to keep happening. There are so many people who
dedicated their time and effort to the making of this film. They spent
millions of dollars to make it happen. This film tells a story of an
event that the world needs to know about. And until people have the
chance to see it with their own eyes and in turn draw their own
conclusions, please do not allow this kind of spiteful rating to
continue. Please do not let your site become another place of hateful
political ranting. It only does you a great disservice."Was the above review useful to you? Yes No
