8
A Refreshing Change

I love horror movies. The sleek ones, the b-grade ones, the really
crappy ones with bad acting and cheap thrills. I watch them all. This
one? This one left me pleasantly surprised. The scares are carefully
crafted, the acting is superb, and the atmosphere gets you before the
walking dead does. As the case with most well made horror movies, it is
that which you cannot see that frightens you the most. In some ways,
the setting and atmosphere reminds of the movie Pontypool. Quick summary, here be spoilers: An unidentified corpse of a woman
(Olwen Kelly) is found half buried in the basement of a house where a
bizarre homicide has occurred. What stayed with me, was the contrast of
the messy and bloody homicide scenes, and the cleanness of the corpse
and her grave. Even though half buried, she didn't even have dirt on
her. They take the corpse to father-and-son coroners Tommy (Brian Cox)
and Austin (Emile Hirsch) Tilden. During their examination, they come
to realization that they are dealing with something supernatural.A mountain of contradictions and inconsistencies arise. The corpse has
no visible signs of trauma, no rigor mortis. The eyes are cloudy,
something that only happens when the body has been dead for a few days.
When they make the Y-incision, the corpse bleeds profusely, something
that only happens when a corpse is fresh. Her tongue has been
non-surgically removed, her ankles and wrists are shattered. One of her
teeth is missing, which they later find in a hex bag in her stomach.
Her lungs are charred, and her organs imply repeated stabbing. Her
vagina is mutilated and when they pull the skin away from her rib-
cage, they find strange symbols tattooed on her skin. The first half of the movie focuses on the various, sometimes chilling,
aspects of the external and internal examination. The seconds half is
when lights go off and things go bump in the dark. Øvredal succeeds superbly in first creating a relaxed atmosphere, with
a small cast of characters, and then starts turning the discomfort
levels and the creep factor up. I would have given the movie a higher
rating, but the ending did not live up to the tone that was set
throughout the movie. That said, I still highly recommend The Autopsy of Jane Doe.
