4
One of my greatest cinematographic disappointments

So. I was under the impression, that this was supposed to be a sequel,
not a remake. It markets itself as a sequel, so there is no reason to
think of it as a reboot. Yet the plot and the characters were recycled
from the old movies.A Darth Vader wannabe, with a plan from ep. IV, a re-gendered Luke with
god mode powers turned on, female Yoda 2.0, etc. Whole scenes were
remade. The plot was copy-pasted and yet they somehow managed to make
it inconsistent. The characters were terribly profiled. I found storm
trooper kid totally laughable. Over-powered Rey was just the icing on
this disgusting cake. The acting was terrible, but even Orson Welles
couldn't make these fan-fic level characterizations work.This movie is beyond unoriginal. It is just saddening how well received
this over-hyped piece of crap was. It makes me think that it's enough
to tell people what they're supposed to like, to give some money to
reviewers and everything's gonna be OK for you.A disappointing movie in itself and as a cultural phenomenon. One of my
greatest cinematographic disappointments. Then again: makes me
appreciate the prequels just a little bit more. Although they were
terrible movies, they brought tons of new stuff to the table. I can't
think of anything original, this movie has brought, and lemme tell you:
IT FEELS FRIGGIN' DEPRESSING! Is this ENOUGH for movie-goers and
critics? THIS?! I hate this movie with all of my heart, but I can't
bring myself to give it less than 4/10, because it is technically well
made. On a very crude technical level... Even with 4/10 though, I never
quite hated any movie like this one. I hate it with a passion. Been
giving people thumbs up merely for hating it because I think that it's
got far too much praise. It ran one of the most original franchises
into stale, unoriginal, politically correct derivative waters.... God I
hate this movie so much, along with everything it represents, it makes
me wanna cry.
