9
Awesome film - shame about the trailer

Room, based on the book by Emma Donoghue, starts on young Jack's 5th
birthday. He gets a birthday cake from his mother (but no candles); a
visit from his father; and a gift, albeit belatedly. This would all be
perfectly normal except that all of this takes place within 'Room' - a
confined space with only a single skylight for daylight and no means of
escape. For the mother, Joy, was abducted as a teen and locked away for
sex in the style of the dreadful real-life examples such as that
perpetrated by Josef Fritzl in Austria. Jack is the (presumably)
unintended result: a boy with no perception of the real world beyond
his four single-sided walls and with the staunchly-held view that the
things he sees on a flickering TV screen are in 'TV land' and unreal.
Will Jack and Joy survive and ever see freedom again? And that's where I'll leave this synopsis, since (if you've been lucky
enough to avoid the trailer) there is a tense cat-and-mouse story to
unfurl here.This is an absorbing, although slow-moving, film that builds to some
truly nail-biting moments. The screenwriter (also Donoghue) and
director (Irishman Lenny "Frank" Abrahamson) are to be commended in
keeping the story and drama really well-grounded and un-saccharined.
Old Nick (Sean Bridgers), the 'evil kidnapper', is not painted as some
predictable monster: he is even portrayed to be kind and caring at some
warped level. And there is no gratuitous sex: we are in effect seven
years into the story and the abnormal is now completely normalised.The film is told primarily from the viewpoint of Jack (Jacob Tremblay)
but we also get under the skin of Joy (Brie Larson) and her emotions in
trying to mentally deal with her ordeal. Looking at a picture of her
with her school friends she bitterly comments that "Nothing happened to
them - - they just got on with their lives".The acting is superb. I made the mistake of voting for John Boyega for
the BAFTA Rising Star award before seeing this film (you can cast your
vote here
http://www.bafta.org/film/awards/ee-rising-star-award-in-2016). Not
that Boyega isn't great, but Brie Larson really REALLY delivers here.
She obviously won't give a hoot if she wins the Best Actress Oscar! And
for me, for this award, she shines out in what I would perhaps see as
one of this year's weaker Oscar categories. Jacob Tremblay is also
exceptional as Jack - and it would be nice (rather than try to compare
young performances with adult ones, as per Anna Paquin) if there was a
special awards category for actors and actresses under 10. If there
was, then Tremblay would storm it! You seriously forget that this is a
child acting a part. He is totally connected to the role and these two
core performances lock in your belief in the story.Supporting the cast are the ever reliable William H Macy as Joy's
mentally tortured father, Joan Allen (Pamela Landy from the "Bourne"
films) as her equally distraught mother and Sean Bridgers as the
kidnapper.At 2 hours long some of the scenes in the middle of the film made my
attention waver a little. But my main criticism is in the trailer and
marketing of the film. If ever there was a need for a true 'teaser
trailer' this is it. I never know who is responsible for putting
trailers together - whether the director has the final say or whether
its some nameless marketing bods in the distribution company, but
whoever it is they should be taken out and 'given a good talking to'
for this travesty. It's like putting all of the twists in films like
"The Crying Game", "The Sixth Sense" and "Gone Girl" in their
respective trailers. I've gone so far as to create my own One Mann's
Movies cut of the trailer, just for you good people, which I have
included with my bob-the-movie-man.com version of this review.A leisurely, nuanced and effecting drama, this is not for fans of "Die
Hard" or "Fast and Furious" fans. But for everyone else, this should be
a must see.Please visit bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical version of this
review. Thanks.
