8
Creepy, very unsettling and disturbing!

'CLOWN': Four Stars (Out of Five)An indie supernatural horror flick, co-produced by Eli Roth. The film
was written by Christopher D. Ford and directed by Jon Watts (the duo
also teamed together on last year's 'COP CAR'). It stars Laura Allen,
Andy Powers, Christian Distefano and Peter Stormare. The movie tells
the story of a man that puts on an ancient clown costume, for his kid's
birthday party, and then can't take it off. He becomes possessed by it,
and starts having sinister urges. The film is based on a fake YouTube
trailer, that Watts and Ford put online (in 2010). In the trailer, they
claimed that Eli Roth was producing their movie (even though he wasn't
involved with it yet). Roth was so impressed by this, he decided to
co-produce the film! I really enjoyed it. Kent McCoy (Powers), and his wife Meg (Allen), are hosting a birthday
party for their son Jack (Distefano). The clown that's supposed to show
up, for the party, can't make it. Kent, in desperation, puts on an old
clown costume, that he finds in the basement of a house he's selling.
He then goes to the party, in the professional clown's place. Kent's a
hit with the kids there, including his son. Then he falls asleep, while
he's still wearing the clown costume, after the party's over. The next
day Kent can't take the costume off, and strange (nightmarish) things
begin happening. The movie is creepy, very unsettling and disturbing. It's also really
funny, in a very darkly comedic way, and Peter Stormare is classic in
his role. The special effects are impressive, and the directing is more
than adequate. The film's concept is also brilliant, and I can
definitely see it becoming a popular franchise; with many sequels to
come (deservingly so). The only real complaint, I have with the movie,
is it's pacing; it could have been trimmed down (at least a little).
Other than that, it's a pretty entertaining 'fright flick' experience.Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/8E1WKbyL3YM
