6
Sadly doesn't live up to the expectations

I haven't always been a Will Ferrell fan but every once in awhile a
dumb comedy is okay and Ferrell tends to do that easily. I actually had
some decent expectations for this because the trailers looked silly fun
and had a good concept and it does. It's a simple concept but that
doesn't make it unwatchable. The biggest issue with Daddy's Home is
that it is painfully predictable. I mean comedies tend to be this and
usually they show many of the best gags in the trailer but there just
felt like there was nothing surprising here at all. The entire film
rests on the two leads chemistry which is decent so it does carry the
film. I suppose I just wanted some laughs to be a surprise and maybe
something outside of the trailer and outside of what you might expect.
It also doesn't know what demographic it is aiming at. It could have
almost been a family film but is far too dirty and far too many curse
words for family or even early-teens. Considering the fun and
lightheartedness of the rivalry and comedy, it is disappointing. What I
wanted to see was some zany physical comedy but they use CGI and really
bad special effects like a gag on its own.You can guarantee the main cast meet expectations for their fans. I
admit I have never seen The Other Guys but Mark Wahlberg and Will
Ferrell definitely make an odd couple together that work for comedy.
Ferrell does what he does playing the overgrown child and the wimpish
fool like nobody else can and it works again. Wahlberg is perfectly
cast as the smooth, suave, testosterone laden ex-husband of Ferrell's
wife. The two of them against each is fun if you ignore the
predictability and obviousness. Linda Cardellini plays their wife and I
have to give her credit because she doesn't have a big role but she is
actually almost believable that she could have been married to Wahlberg
and then Ferrell and that's not easy to pull off. Supported cast
including Thomas Haden Church (who should have been used more),
Scarlett Estevez, Owen Vaccaro, Bobby Cannavale and Hannibal Buress are
all good but very underused considering how good they could have been.Daddy's Home is simple and fun and you likely will enjoy it if you're
not expecting a lot from it. No matter what kind of film you're making
I think you should be making it as great as possible and Daddy's Home
feels rushed and under-made to cash in which it did that. Sean Anders
isn't exactly a top notch comedy director after helming duds like
That's My Boy and Horrible Bosses 2 but he makes a better writer and
should stick to that. However, this is better than both of those films.
So check this out for a fun evening watch but keep your expectations
low. 6.5/10
