3
Way to go Abrams. Just when I thought you couldn't do worse.

You don't fool me. You might have put Justin Lin at the helm it is so
obvious you were pulling the strings. Because everything in this film
has your hand print on it. Star Trek Beyond even starts with a freaking
lens flare.At this point I had made peace with the new Star Trek and just wanted
to enjoy myself. Bring on the spectacle and eye candy. Give me the
super slick action and your edge of your seat thrills. All I wanted was
to have fun. But no, that would actually require some effort and you
could not be bothered huh Abrams? So yes let me be one of those guys
complaining that this is not my Star Trek. I have been a fan of the
original franchise for a long time. I actually embraced the reboot
until Star Trek Into Darkness. Although that did not stop me from
enjoying for what they were. Fun popcorn movies but so far removed from
what Gene Roddenberry's Star Trek should be about that it simply is not
funny anymore. But would you believe it that Beyond even fails as a fun
popcorn flick? All the spectacle and eye candy was unimaginative,
uninspired and ultimately boring. Yes, you heard me say it. Star Trek
Beyond is boring. It had me going for the first ten minutes and then I
lost interest completely. There is nothing in this adventure that drew
me into these events. I could overlook the minimal story and lack of
genuine twist and turns. Although the big one at the end was decent
enough if it weren't for the fact that I already had stopped caring
about this film entirely. All the characters in this film could have
died and I would not have given a damn. Maybe except for Bones. Karl
Urban can do no wrong with me. Even if he tried to. But all the other
characters got on my nerve. Anton Yelchin's Chekov was a parody of the
original. Worse of all though he is not in the film as much as I would
have liked to. There isn't a single scene that serves has a proper send
off and farewell to the magnificent actor he was. And that pisses me
off to be frank. Actually a lot of characters including Chris Pine as
Kirk lack the charm and wit from previous films. Spock was more human
than Vulcan. Let me remind you people that it was his Vulcan half that
made him an interesting character. It was like no one in this
production cared about this film at all. Then why should I? Why should
I give in and accept this mess of a film?And trust me I tried shutting of my brain and simply enjoy it but I
couldn't. Because nothing about this adventure is memorable or
exciting. Most important reason is that the spectacle is predictable as
hell. Even the Beastie Boys scene you could have seen coming miles
ahead. Now I must admit that that scene did put a smile on my face. But
one brief moment of joy like that is not enough. Not by a long shot. In
order to remain fair I have judged this film solely on what it did
offer and not of what it could or should have been. Still I do have to
point out that this latest part in the reboot franchise is proof that
this is not Star Trek. The older films and TV Shows next to spectacle
always offered good drama and thought provoking concepts about many
essential things that matter in life. Star Trek made science and
philosophy accessible and fun for people who otherwise might not have
been interested. Star Trek Beyond however dismisses all of this and
treats it's audience like they are idiots. The people behind this new
franchise assume current audience only want action and spectacle and
nothing more. And maybe this is true which makes me sad. Very sad. I
like to be challenged. I like to be provoked about political and social
issues when done right. However like I first stated that I was willing
and able to overlook the lack of this in favour of fun. But that's just
it. Beyond rarely is fun. The very few moments that were could not make
me forget the agony I experienced while watching this film. I stared at
the screen in such detached manner that I think I would have gotten
more enjoyment watching noise.I for one am hoping that they are done with this and that they will go
back to what Star Trek should be about. But if they don't the fans
will. So many wonderful fan made Star Trek projects out there that are
made with love and passion that surpass these crappy movies in every
way. Simon Pegg claims to be a huge Star Trek fan. Then it is so
puzzling to me that he could have written this script. Almost
everything about it is a downright insult to the real fans and legacy
of Gene Roddenberry. I never realized this until now but Simon Pegg is
kind of a douche. Overall don't bother people. Star Trek Beyond is a
giant waste of your time.
