9
A Gritty & Emotional Adventure Into The Vulnerability Of Superheroes

In a time when Marvel continues to churn out the same superhero film
time- and-time again ('Deadpool' and 'Guardians' aside due to their
fresh take on the genre), it's refreshing when something as intricate
and beautifully- executed as 'Logan' is made. I mean let's face it,
that first trailer was a dead giveaway of how damn good it was going to
be.I understand that Marvel has made the attempt to build characters
through a series of films previously, such as they have tried with the
Avengers films, but never have I seen a film that treats character
development as seriously, and pulls it off with such precision, as they
did here in 'Logan', a film that focuses more on the "humane" aspect of
the character and how vulnerable he is as a superhero, instead of the
over-the-top execution that's usually featured ('X-Men Origins' I'm
looking at you).Two characters that we've come to know and love, James "Wolverine"
Howlett (aka Logan) and Charles "Professor X" Xavier, are put to the
test of time as we see them in their new state, once characters that
resembled strength and power, are now withering and vulnerable. And the
gut-punching, adrenaline- pumping action has been swapped out for
slow-moving, emotional drama and character development. Does it work?
You bet! From start to finish we are led on a journey of discovery and
empathy, with James Mangold more than making up for his previous effort
that is 'The Wolverine'.I think it's the uncertainty throughout that gives the film that
powerful punch. In the other X-Men films (and most other Marvel films
for that), we are faced with a plethora of superheroes each fighting a
seemingly impossible army, but no matter what, there is always a
general feeling that the good guys will win, and this usually happens.
So when attending a superhero film, you sit back in ease, knowing the
protagonists will succeed, however in 'Logan' that never happens, there
is never that sense of safety, we can't be certain of their outcomes.
Every step of the way, Wolverine looks tired, he looks sick, he's dying
gradually, and due to his weakened form, we are left worrying for the
character, there is that emotional attachment that most other superhero
films lack. This is the harrowing truth throughout, we are
emotionally-concerned from start to finish.With utterly stunning cinematography, a hard-hitting score, fantastic
direction and a superhero performance that might just be the first
Oscar- deserving one ever. Wolverine's outing makes for the best Marvel
film to date, a gritty and vulnerable adventure into the vulnerability
of superheroes.
