8
Tommy Lee Jones stars, writes, directs, produces & astounds in this journey through trust & the Wild West. Splendid!

I need to get something off my chest: I'm not a fan of Tommy Lee Jones.
I find him limited in range, much the same in most roles and, worst of
all, he inexplicably won the Best Supporting Actor Oscar for The
Fugitive, thus depriving Pete Postlethwaite for In the Name of the
Father, Leonardo Di Caprio for What's Eating Gilbert Grape and Ralph
Fiennes for his performance of pure evil as Amon Goeth in Schindler's
List. In modern parlance, WTF? But periodically, just occasionally, once in a while, he inhabits the
screen in a manner that forces one to reconsider one's judgment. And so
it is with The Homesman.The Homesman is something of a surprise, and not just because Tommy Lee
Jones is on remarkable form in it. Beyond a fine performance, the man
writes, directs and co-produces it. Hell's bells, when did he become so
damn good at everything? In the bad old days of the pioneers in the Wild West, Mary Bee Cuddy
(Hilary Swank) steps in when three women drift into various states of
madness and need to be transported across the country to be cared for
properly. Shunned by their husbands, denied help from the town's
menfolk and at a time where rape and murder hides behind every outcrop
of rock and every gnarled cactus, Cuddy sets off alone on her hazardous
journey. She stumbles across George Briggs (Tommy Lee Jones), a drifter
seated atop his horse, with a noose around his neck, waiting for his
steed to grow bored and leave him hanging. Literally. Cuddy offers to
save him on the condition that he accompanies her and so begins a
particular kind of journey.The Homesman is probably described by many as a western, but that's
lazy. This is a road movie on horseback, a saunter across the plains, a
journey through mistrust and emotions where a mistake or misplaced
trust will result in death. It is a story of hope and love, not the
romantic kind, but real love for one's fellow human being, regardless
of whether they can, or will, reciprocate.Shot beautifully with sprawling, dusty vistas that warm the heart and
prickle the nape, the backdrop is a vast canvas of character and
mystery upon which splashes of colour are smeared in the shape of
wandering, human dangers.Though they say little, the trio of women (Grace Gummer, Miranda Otto
and Sonja Richter) are far more than peripheral characters or the
MacGuffin; they are the substance that binds The Homesman and the
reason for the drama, gentle though it is. As we saw in Mr. Turner,
such characters can so easily become pantomime animals with over
performance that slaps the viewer in the face and detracts from the
whole, of which they are but a small part. Not so here. Grace Gummer,
particularly, as the mostly mute but vacantly animated Arabella is
terrific and we want to reach into the screen and gently push her back
towards sanity. It is a beautiful, understated performance that remains
in mind long after the event.Tommy Lee Jones and Hilary Swank make a surprising double act but the
chemistry is there in abundance. Both Cuddy and Briggs carry their own
needs and daemons with them; neither would give the other a second
glance ordinarily but circumstance prompts odd, emotional couplings and
theirs is fraught with suspicion and obligation. It is fantastic to see
Swank back to the form that brought her gongs and made us sit up and
watch in Boys Don't Cry and Million Dollar Baby. This is a far less
demonstrative performance, but no less steely or impactful because of
it.Tommy Lee Jones's performance is the most compelling, engrossing that I
can recall. Beyond that, his direction is worth celebrating loudly. The
Homesman is only his second feature as director (after 2006's wonderful
but little seen The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada) but there are
hints that he may step into Clint Eastwood's shoes alongside Ben
Affleck and Sean Penn. Just when we think we have the measure of this
tale, he belts us sharply around the jowls, proving he has the mettle
to surprise and shock us out of our complacency.Maybe, after years and years of apparently coasting, broodily on film
and staring into space, it will transpire he was merely absorbing,
waiting for the moment to own both sides of the screen and captivate
us.You know what, maybe he's always been this good but I just didn't see
it.For more reviews from The Squiss, subscribe to my blog and like the
Facebook page.
