3
A confused comedy noir buddy cop film.

A movie-like thing masquerading as a period noir buddy cop comedy. I've
read a number of reviews so far and one thing that almost everyone
agrees on, even those who like the movie, is that the screenplay is a
big hot mess. There is no momentum to the story, which is somehow both
predictable and unfocused. As soon as Kim Bassinger's character shows
up we know where this is all going but who cares anyway? The movie
attempts to swerve towards the broadly comic and surreal but is not
inspired enough to revel in its own fun and allow the audience to
forgive the meandering and ultimately nonsensical plot for the window
dressing that it is. The characters lack sharp definition and development. Gosling and Crowe
give whatever glimmer of hope there is to this movie but the material
is not worthy. They may have been miscast but its almost impossible to
tell due to the writing. Their characters are not very likable,
consistent or distinguishable from each other(important with odd couple
dynamics). Supporting characters are not the fun colorful characters one would
hope to have from such a movie. Gosling's daughter character is played
by a talented young actress but unfortunately this is one of the worst
elements of the movie. The child character who behaves like an adult is
a cringe worthy staple of Hollywood and that is exactly what we get
with in this movie. And why in a buddy cop movie are you focusing so
much attention on buddy cop's 12 year old daughter? Why?? You could
have a romantic interest or a fun villain but no, we get a third wheel
Nancy Drew character.From the beginning the daughter character is forced into the plot like
this is a four quadrant family friendly comedy and I inwardly groaned
as I realized that I was going to have to live with this decision by
the screenwriters. This film has a rather bizarre obsession with
children and even weaves in inappropriate porn jokes and adult
situations with children in ways that I found off- putting, and I love
South Park and edgy humor involving kids so that's saying something. The movie is too scattershot and all over the place. Worst of all, its
not very funny. There are maybe three moments in the movie that are
chuckle worthy and they are featured in the trailer. The filmmaker has
fun with the 1977 setting but this movie could have taken place in 2016
or 2026 or 2177, it doesn't matter.
