1
A disappointing let down from start to finish - caused by bad plot

!SPOILER ALERT! Contrary to the trailers, this is NOT a film about time
travel. It IS a film about a telekinetic toddler (who is not in the
trailers).If you are expecting this film to be like Blade Runner, Primer or 13
Monkeys, then you may well be VERY disappointed.Only about 5 minutes of the film seemed to actually involve time travel
or Bruce Willis fighting his past self. When the story does attempt to
explore these issues it does so embarrassingly badly. Half way through
the film the plot changes AWAY from time travel and becomes a film
about trying to kill a telekinetic little boy in the current day. A boy
who has only a very weak connection to the initial plot about time
travel.This is really two entirely different plots badly mixed in to one. One
plot is about time travel. The other plot is about the dangers of
toddlers with uncontrollable telekinesis. Unfortunately the film does
neither of these plots well, and ends up ruining both.To make matters worse, the film moves very slowly in certain places.
This just gives the audience time to think about how bad the plot it
is.There is virtually no action either - unless you count Bruce Willis's
character shooting defenseless toddlers (for which the certificate
should surely be more than 15), or needless torture and execution
scenes. There is just a lot of running away from people taking badly
aimed pot shots. (This happens a lot). Apparently nobody can shoot
straight in the future. The only action scene worthy of the name comes
in the last 5 minutes where Bruce Willis suddenly turns ninja and takes
out ALL the bad guys in about 30 seconds, and then walks off. It's
almost as if the writers got to the end of the story and then thought,
"Oh yeah - we should probably have Bruce Willis firing some guns or
something ..." This film fails so pathetically to deal with time travel that it is
frankly insulting to the audience. They don't give good explanations
about why time travel exists, or how it works. Fair enough. There is a
certain suspension of disbelief in any time travel movie. However, they
DO establish certain rules about time travel during the film, which
they then break, re-establish and break again whenever it is convenient
for the writers.Bruce Willis attempts to explain time travel, and give a justification
for the writer's itinerant stance on the matter, only to then smash is
hands on the table and angrily shout "It doesn't matter!". This makes
it clear that the writers didn't even think they were being clever or
original. They clearly knew the plot made no sense, and they were just
making a pathetic excuse about time travel being "flaky" to justify
their random plot lurches and inconsistencies.The whole premise of a "Looper" was never satisfactorily explained: 1)
Why did the mafia boss who supposedly "owned" the city live in a little
basement? In his pajamas? 2) "It is almost impossible to get rid of a
body in the future, because of tracking ... cough ... something ...
cough-cough." So NATURALLY using time travel is the EASIEST of the
available options to dispose of a body!? If a body disappears from the
future, for example in a furnace, then surely it also disappears from
the future in time travel? Same difference. 3) If mafia in the future
are the sole owners and users of time travel, then why don't they just
use it to take over the world so that they don't need to even worry
about disposing of bodies? 4) Why didn't they just send the loopers
back already dead when closing a loop, so that there was no possibility
of failure? 5) Why did they always get THE SAME looper to close THEIR
OWN loop? Asking for trouble. 6) Why even have more than one looper?
Surely the job wasn't that strenuous that they needed to take shifts? They broke their own rules on time travel, and made the ending of the
film impossible and irrelevant given the events in the middle: As soon
as the younger version shot himself at the end, then he couldn't have
lived to meet the woman in China and eventually travel back in time,
which means he couldn't have ever caused his past self to meet the rain
man, and so the rain man would not be standing there in the corn field.
Everything would have reverted back to how it was before - in exactly
the same way that it DID DO EARLIER on in the film when he fell off the
balcony and died and the bit where Bruce Willis traveled back in time
got repeated. The rain man would have grown up and taken over the world
in the same way he did before, and Bruce Willis's wife would still be
dead.They never actually explained WHY the first thing the rain man wanted
to do was to kill the loopers in the future. Presumably it was because
they were the only people who could go back in time and possibly stop
him? So why didn't he just kill them with telekinesis like he did the
rest of his enemies? Why did he chose to kill them in the ONLY method
which would actually give them the opportunity to stop him in the past
- namely, by sending them back to the past, alive. The story never really addressed or capitalized on Bruce Willi's
character being evil. This could have been a great angle to really
explore, but instead they just washed over it.This film was a dismal train wreck of ideas with great potential.
