9
We have our own incomprehension

When I just finished watching advance screening couple days ago, I
wasn't fully satisfied at first. Because I don't use to the accent nor
knew well about the history. For the film, it did not introduce much
about historical background, or personal background. But after I read
some history of Ireland and the British, I have to say now everything
makes sense. However, the depth of the story above the general
understanding of most of audience. And the film seems to default to the
audience to know the background. As an action and thrill movie, that
might be hard to persuade audience to buy popcorn for it. It was
released about two weeks earlier in China than North America. Douban
score is about equal to the IMDb score. As a fan of Jackie Chan and
007, in my viewpoint, most of us give high scores to excellent
performances for the actors. Obviously, audiences who doesn't rank it
high say that they didn't seem to get the point too much. Similar
situation as Ang Lee's Lust, Caution releasing in North America, the
audience asks WHY! and WHAT! Personally speaking, not just history, but
also something like science and high technology, niche hobbies need
film makers to tell customer why it is interesting. Every region or
person has stories that worth to tell, but without scenario analysis,
people just see it like general.Que(Jackie Chan), as a Chinese immigrant, stable life in western
countries is not easy to achieve for him. If terrorist attack made he
lost the only and most important focus of life, his spiritual world
would collapse. As Buddhist attitude, all the toil of a life is in
vain. Therefore, all the crazy and strange ways of revenge would choose
by him. Yas, he has no other way to go. Jackie Chan's acting is his realism. He usually does not take the
realistic style that much and this refreshing is linked for many years
out. Do you remember how Jackie Chan acts in his previous films? He
falls down, he makes fun with enemies and throw little items as
weapons. But trust me you will feel "hurt in your body" this time.
Every awkward moving, heavenly falling down make you couldn't recognize
this Jackie Chan but a Dad. Maybe his art film there will be surprises
too.Another main character, Liam, Irish Politician, Pierce Bronan, 007 , I
saw half way and felt he was so bad luck. Smart and decisive, and also
in the executive. "All the toil of a life is in vain" is also for him.
He doesn't want to see innocent families are killed by boobs. He
doesn't able to not obey to the government. He doesn't like his
mistress is a spy. He doesn't feel happy that his wife two times on him
with his nephew so unhappy! These are showing up step by step by a
foreigner's trouble, from the beginning to the end. So don't think you
are smart as God! The nephew, Sean, Rory Fleck Byrne, is a typical hot soldier. Our
industry people all LOL when it shows him making out with his aunt. I
also shouted in silence my heart, Come On Do it!!! The wife, aunt,
Mary, Orla Brady is a more than wise woman, betraying her husband
engage in terrorist attacks and make her looks 100% innocent. Treat to
the nephew is clearly not the first time. I boldly think, when 007
starts with pretty mistress, in the same time Mary dates Sean. The
arrangement of UDI is really not leaky.There is also a question that why the terrorists kill people to chase
independence? It can be said that the lives of innocent people could
give the government huge pressure of public opinion. For example, a
single woman waiting in the subway station is sexually harassed by a
bad man. And the security police are steps away. Single women will ask
the police for help. And if the police ignore it, passengers will be
immediately by the police and judge as angered. As a result, the police
lost tracking of another bad guy.
