6
Flawed but entertaining

Shyamalan has suffered like few other directors as a result of his
later films not measuring up to the exacting standards set by The Sixth
Sense and Signs. Part of this is self-inflicted, because he has refused
to veer from the"M. Night Shyamalan" formula: modern fairy tale crafted
to take an unexpected turn approximately two-thirds into the fun. When
the twist fails to impress or the fairy tale is dull, the movie
disappoints audiences on on two levels. Not only is the movie judged
mediocre, but it is criticized for failing to deliver on the promise
made by Shyamalan's earlier efforts.The fairy tale and twist delivered by The Visit do not disappoint.
Hansel and Gretel effectively employ today's media and technology for
narration and exposition, leading the viewer down an increasingly
foreboding path. The fear and anxiety caused by Nana and Pop-Pop's odd
behavior appeal to our politically incorrect subconscious: we shy away
and are even repulsed by displays of dementia and senility, no matter
how clinically explicable we understand those displays to be. I was
pleasantly surprised that the predicted twist was not predictable, and
I felt a sincere surge of a-ha! at its revelation.The Visit falls short with respect to the traditional elements of
film-making. The children, particularly the brother, are portrayed as
cloying, non-credible 1980s sitcom characters with cheesy lines.
Attempts at humor come off like a toast at a Dirty Dancing era summer
camp in the Catskills. The siblings show no sign of being actual
teenagers from the 21st century until approximately 45 minutes into the
film, when they interview each other for their "documentary" and reveal
certain vulnerabilities. The forced nature of this scene serves to
highlight the otherwise inauthentic personalities assigned to them by
the director and script. The mother's character is painted with the
same superficial gloss, a problem magnified by her limited time on
screen. These weaknesses prevented me from empathizing with the family
members and reminded me throughout that I was indeed watching a movie.Perhaps Shyamalan was so focused on invoking his brand upon The Visit
that he was distracted from maintaining its essential quality. Like
many other viewers, I still look forward to the film where he regains
that balance.
