9
It Shines in a Summer of Disappointment

First and foremost, this movie should be almost painfully relatable to
the Disney Renaissance Generation. For the convenience of the meanings
told in Disney and Pixar films, couldn't be more relatable to the age
of those born in the mid 90's growing up. Also, for the question of a
Monsters Inc. Prequel being necessary? Make that decision after the
credits roll, for this was the most enjoyable movie I've seen so far in
2013. In an overwhelming blockbuster summer of over-hyped excitement
followed by mild to severe disappointment, Monsters University isn't
just a good sign for Pixar, it's a good sign that 2013 can be one of
the best years of film. Now! On to the review! The story of the origin of the friendship
between one-eyed Mike Wazowski and the blue furred James P. Sullivan in
their freshman year at Monsters University. This film has homages to
all the classic college comedy movies, and as it doesn't hold out on
laughs for the kids and adults, it has a great amount of heart.
Questions of what the future holds, and if our dreams are as possible
as we hope they are. Punches aren't pulled on these questions, which is
why it isn't just some animated movie to take the kids to see. References to real college life are blended with superb imagination of
the monster world. Rather it be a long blonde haired guitar player, or
the horns on the school bus. All original voice talent returns and
keeps up with the track record of great performances in Pixar films.
Billy Crystal, John Goodman, and Steve Buscemi grasp their characters
and give them entirely different motivations compared to the original.
Instead of a hardworking team, the two have a rivalry, and the
supporting cast of their fraternity supply more relatability with a
great variety of lovable monsters who help fill the story with even
more heart. The compatibility with Mike and Sully can be a bit surprising, for one
is the study hard teachers pet, and the other a natural born scare
student. And just as you think your more like one, the other comes in
and you realize that even monsters can be scared of the real world just
like us today. Fear of what life has in store, and if we have the
talent to fulfill our dreams. This is a theme a lot of critics are
missing, and shines making it worthy of being a great Pixar movie and
prequel to a great classic. The story isn't terribly generic as one may think, and every act is
more different from the last. Starting with the clash between Mike and
Sully, then onto the scare games, an intense series of games that
declare supremacy of M.U. For the third and final act couldn't be more
surprising though. It not only serves as a great climax, but something
that we can once again commend Pixar for telling great stories in out
of the box thinking that we should think paying for the $10 dollar
ticket is worth it. And boy did I think this movie was worth it, for I
will be definitely be seeing it a second and possibly third time. It
wasn't a prequel we originally wanted, but it was a film that we and
Pixar needed. And boy am I glad it happened.
