1
The Worst Movie I Have Ever Seen...

The title of my review says it all. The Wolf of Wall Street was
literally the WORST movie I have seen in my entire life. My opinion
might not be quite so negative if the movie hadn't dragged its
disorganized, rambling plot on for THREE WHOLE HOURS. At about the one
hour mark I was already checking the clock out of boredom and
disinterest, and continued to do so throughout the rest of the movie.I appreciate good film-making, and I appreciate that Martin Scorsese is
widely recognized as a film genius, but I think this one was an
artistic flop. The movie starts off entertaining, but it never really
feels like the film takes off. Instead, I felt as if the film was
rambling, always promising to find the point where the action gets
good, but never quite getting there. The pacing is slower than
molasses, and the dialogue inundated with largely meaningless
conversations consisting mainly of expletives. While the movie focuses
on Jordan Belfort's (DiCaprio) addictions to money, sex, and drugs, we
never see Belfort hit rock bottom as we would usually expect of such a
movie. Nor does the movie glorify his addictions, so the audience is
left merely absorbing the gamut of his largely taboo experience without
any meaning or particular point to it. The nudity in this film, too, is
needlessly gratuitous and seemingly serves no purpose other than to
continuously drive the point to the audience that Belfort is an
uncommonly selfish ass who enjoys the sexual underbelly of the
underworld -- a point which could have been made just as effectively
with about half the nudity and sexual scenes. Throughout the film we see none of the characters grow, nor do we see
their actions have any other consequence besides generating more money,
aside from Belfort's divorce and imprisonment at the end of the film,
which seem to carry absolutely no weight. The characters are flat and
shallow -- not the kind of people you would want to spend three hours
with. DiCaprio's performance as Belfort was strong and believable,
although the character was so thoroughly unlikable that it was
difficult to enjoy his performance. Jonah Hill also gave a solid
performance, but again, the character was too unlikable for me to care.Scorsese also used little visual and narrative tricks (such as slowing
the film down to focus on a ticking clock flying through the air, or
having DiCaprio narrate Belfort's thoughts) to break up the flow of the
story that, had they been used more consistently, more frequently, or
in conjunction with any sort of meaning, would have had a positive
stylistic impact on the film, but their usage was sporadic, giving the
film a disjointed and uneven feeling.I will be sorely disappointed if the academy nominates this film for
best picture, as it felt more like an unedited rough draft that was
prematurely loosed on theater-goers rather than a carefully
constructed, polished piece of cinema.
