10
One of The Best Comedy's of All Time

I have no idea where to start with this movie, it is one of the
weirdest movies I have ever seen, one of the funniest, and one of the
best. Wes Anderson just outshines himself in this movie, even with all
the weird and funny scenes he still makes a beautiful sometimes very
serious movie. There are some of the most unique characters I have ever
seen that you just can't help but love. The direction is literally some of the best I have ever seen, he makes
it looks so much like a play I almost thought I was at the theater. It
really is a shame there is not that many movies like this anymore but
we are lucky we have Wes Anderson to gives us his weird but always
great movies.I can almost find no bad things to say about this movie, there are a
few scenes that maybe seem a little childish, but if you just stop to
care and learn to laugh then this movie becomes amazing. The story is
both hilarious, while still having serious subject matters, pretty much
like the whole movie, hilarious but a serious subject matter.It starts with a young author staying at the grand Budapest hotel who
meets the owner and sits down for dinner with him. After a little while
the author asks the owner how he came to be the owner, and why he keeps
the hotel even though he is losing money on it. The owner tells him his
story about him being a young lobby boy at the hotel and his friendship
with the very interesting concierge, and the adventure's that lead up
to him becoming owner of the hotel. It got some amazing performances, first the brilliant Ralph Fiennes
gives an amazing performance very different from what I have seen him
in before. Tony Revolori gives a pretty good performance all things
considered. There are also many other great performances by people
like, Edward Norton, Adrien Brody, Harvey Keitel, and many others. I am gonna finish by saying this movie is one of the best comedy movies
I have ever seen and I recommend it to everybody. I hope you found this
review helpful and I hope you will love the movie as much as me. 10/10
