9
Takes you back to the times when vampires were considered monsters

Although not well advertised and distributed, this movie actually is a
piece of true art. It returns to the roots of the vampire genre, but
unlike Twilight or the more action-oriented alternatives, this one has
a very adult take on it.Although it has a fair share of action and blood, this movie really is
not for those who expect exciting, thrilling and spectacular fight
scenes. More like Interview With a Vampire, the movie concentrates a
lot more on understanding these beings. Throwing some of the vampire's
newborn traits away (sparkling in the sunlight eh?) and turning them
into "Sucrient"-s, the movie revolves around how these creatures find
their means of survival and how they deal with the price they pay for
it.Many critics say that the movie is too long and slow paced, which is
true, but that's actually one of the reasons what makes it work. The
scenes, the music, the characters all give you a dark, twisted,
gripping and uncertain feeling. The slow-pacedness of the movie adds
the sense of being lost, the sense of being empty to all of it.. which
might make you uneasy, but by the end you will realize this is how the
characters themselves feel like. You are made to feel uneasy, because
it's necessary to be able to understand them....and although there are several quite good acting performances in
Byzantium, by "them" I now think about Clara (Gemma Arterton) and
Eleanor (Saoirse Ronan). Their characters are very different, but are
also very interesting and more importantly: very well played. Saoirse
Ronan does a perfect job in giving you the Eleanor whom you both
understand and don't understand at the same time, an Eleanor whom you
love and still are afraid of. Then there's Gemma Arterton who brings
her best performance ever to the screen, giving you a cruel, wicked and
wretched Clara who soon turns out to be so much more than what they
call her...There are quite a few vampire stories out there already, yet Byzantium
achieves to be a unique pearl among all of them. Its dark feeling,
interesting characters and slow storytelling do require a specific
audience - people who like to listen and be mesmerized. If you feel
like one, Byzantium is a must-see for you.
