10
Enter the wonderful strange and creepy world of ParaNorman

There have been numerous stop motion animation films but only a handful
have really stepped up to deliver something special. Coraline was one
of those films that delivered unique characters along with a
beautifully strange world like no other. Their latest ParaNorman looks
to continue this tradition but turning to the ever popular world of
zombies and horror. Can it deliver another new unique vision in this
style or will it just end up being another generic animated film?ParaNorman follows a misunderstood boy who is able to speak to the
dead. When the town is over thrown by zombies, a witches curse, and an
angry mob it's up to him to push his abilities to the limit to save
them all. This film not only delivers something new and different with
an almost played out genre, it manages to stand out and entertain on
numerous levels. Featuring an all-star voice cast of Casey Affleck,
Kodi Smit-McPhee, Tempestt Bledsoe, John Goodman, Anna Kendrick, Leslie
Mann, Christopher Mintz-Plasse who step into their roles and bring
these fun characters to creepy life. While this seems to be an animated
kid's film, this was clearly made with all ages in mind. There are
moments that some would deem not so kid friendly, but still manages to
maintain its place among an almost all ages film. The animation is
awesome with some strange character and set design that only adds to
the originality and fun of this film. This film is formatted like an
actual zombie film, but then takes some twists and turns to take it
someplace new. The story is dark and fun all at once and will easily
keep both adults and kids entertained. There are some classic monster
movie moments that adults will appreciate as well as some subject
matter that is a bit glossed over, but clearly takes a momentary step
out of the family film.This is easily not only one of the best stop-motion films to come along
in some time; it's one of the best animated films. ParaNorman delivers
in every way filled with comedy, horror, and action all wrapped up in a
strange twisted visual tale that you will not soon forget.http://www.examiner.com/movie-in-dallas/bobby-blakey
