7
.. makes sense only if you are actually ARE Judd Apatow

You may recall a major hit a few years ago entitled KNOCKED UP by
Director Judd Apatow. You may also remember the "other" couple in that
film, the secondary characters, the characters that the main characters
"played against" for dramatic exposition. Well, Director Apatow, for
reasons that are less than clear, decided to not only do a follow=up
film to that hit, but to base said film on the second couple, the
couple most viewers who saw the first film have likely forgotten. Wait,
it gets better. The actress who played the wife in the original film
(ie, in the "second" couple) is Leslie Mann, who, by coincidence, is
Apatow's wife in real life. And, ergo, the star of the current film.
See? And -- if you like coincidences, you will love this -- Mann
herself turned 40 years old the same year that this film was made. So
-- let's sum up for those of you having trouble with all this, which
should be most of you -- Apatow took the secondary characters from a
hit film and made a brand new film about middle aged married people,
casting his very own wife. In other words, he decided to do a film
about his own marriage. The reviewers have so far been less than kind
about his film -- one major reviewer suggesting that all the characters
are so horrible he wanted to sell the bunch of them to white slavers --
but one suspects Apatow could care less. This is the film he wanted to
make and he made it. Deal with it. Comments... * if you are married,
you will "get" a lot of the set pieces in the film. If you are not, you
won't. In fact if you are not married, this film may possibly damage
you for actual marriage, and should be avoided simply on the grounds of
public policy. * Leslie Mann is one of the most photogenic actresses in
Hollywood and under different circumstances probably deserved an entire
film of her own, just like this one. In fact, she steals entire scenes
from Meghan Fox. However, all things considered, these are NOT those
circumstances... * overall a forgettable film. Unless you actually are
Judd Apatow
