2
Something need doing? Zug-zug!

From the hype-machine that brought you "Avatar", the species that
brought you George Bush 1, 2 and 3, and the consumer indices that made
glow-in-the-dark tampons a thing, comes Duncan Jones' "Warcraft", a
high-fantasy film based on a high-fantasy video game based on
high-fantasy films and novels."Warcraft" opens with a human soldier circling an orc warrior. What
initially seems like an unconventionally patient action sequence
quickly degenerates into stupidity as the two warriors suddenly charge
at one another. The orc wins; he's a giant humanoid with massive biceps
and a mighty hammer. We're then introduced to an orc named Durotan. Chieftain of the
Frostwolf Clan, Durotan pledges allegiance to Gul'dan, a green-skinned
shaman who is also a REALLY BAD VILLAIN. Gul'dan plans to use his SUPER
POWERS to do BAD STUFF. This BAD STUFF includes STEALING ENERGY FROM
NICE PEOPLE, creating a BIG ARMY, and turning the beautiful land of
Azeroth into a SICKLY HELL-HOLE. Gul'dan's powers include mixed martial
arts, green laser beams, soul-sucking hand waves and PAINFULLY DULL
MOVIE VILLAIN DIALOGUE.Duncan then takes us to Azeroth, where we're introduced to various
human characters. These include Commander Anduin (Travis Fimmel), King
Wrynn (Dominic Cooper), Guardian Medivh (Ben Foster) and a young wizard
named Khadgar (Ben Schenetzer). All are generic white dudes with
cumbersome names, designer facial hair, bad dialogue and the finest
muscles four-months of intense cardiovascular can buy."Warcraft's" second act watches as our human heroes fumble about,
desperately hoping to uncover the nature of Gul'dan's plan. As we the
audience know what this plan is, as the plan is cartoonishly silly, and
as our heroes spend most of their time in dreary libraries and
chambers, all these scenes feel painfully dull. Compare to Miyazaki's
"Princess Mononoke", a similar fantasy flick in which exposition is
cunningly disgorged."Warcraft's" first major action sequence occurs at the twenty four
minute mark. Here a band of humans are attacked in a CGI forest by CGI
orcs. It's a routine sequence, filled with the usual hack and slashing,
growling, stabbing, light-shows and silly action-movie-poses. We're then introduced to Garona (Paula Patton), a half human, half orc.
A cliché in such adventure films, Garona exists to bridge divides
between Man and Other. She leads the humans to an icy valley in which
Anduin and Durotan negotiate a war-treaty. Unfortunately these
negotiations are interrupted by Gul'dan's forces, whose arrival
instigates the film's second major action sequence. Occurring at the 58
minute mark, it climaxes with Anduin's son dying as Anduin watches
helplessly behind an energy shield. Recalling Qui-Gon-Jin's death in
"Phantom Menance", or Spock's in "Wrath of Khan", this Big Emotional
Moment reeks of cynical reverse engineering.More dull dialogue and pseudo-political manoeuvrings occur, in scenes
which play like a cross between "John Carter of Mars" and a perpetually
buffering Youtube video. These scenes include a trip to a manna-pool, a
"conversation about love", hokey teleportation devices, irate griffins,
and a journey to Dalaran, a floating city in which a powerful sorceress
(Glenn Close) is kept in a maximum security prison because she knows
the truth about stuff the audience doesn't really care about."Warcraft" then ends with one of cinema's most cumbersome action movie
climaxes. Whilst orcs and humans battle to the death, our human heroes
perform an exorcism on a possessed wizard. These "exciting" sequences
have no sense of style, tension or rhythm. Lacking originality,
interesting tactics or psychological clashes, they largely involve
hundreds of CGI characters yelling, hack-and-slashing or lunging
inanely at one another. Compare to the large scale battles in
Kurosawa's "Ran", the climax to Michael Mann's "Last of the Mohicans"
and of course Peter Jackson's "Lord of the Rings" movies, which offered
a blend of adventure, Olympian seriousness and slap-stick silliness.
Duncan's film, in contrast, is solemn and one-note to a fault.Despite its 160 million dollar budget, "Warcraft's" vistas and visions
are mostly unconvincing. Its orcs live in uncanny valley, with dead
eyes and goofy tusks which better art designers would have reworked.
The film's cities, forests, mountains and tribal encampments look
similarly generic and/or cartoonish. And like most high-fantasy films,
the fact that we're positioned to root for feudalistic monarchs and
thuggish warlords isn't questioned; in the grand scheme of things,
Gul'dan's no more a jerk than the film's supposed heroes."Warcraft" ends with several of its major characters perishing, a bit
of audience-contempt designed to set up future sequels. It was financed
by Legendary Pictures, one of the first production companies
exclusively set up by hedge fund managers, private equity firms,
banksters and big Chinese conglomerates; the far East being the modern
blockbuster's new El Dorado."Warcraft" was based on a series of real-time strategy games by
Blizzard Entertainment, in which players harvest wood and minerals and
slowly build little forest enclaves. A better film would have devoted
its running time to such bucolic resource gathering and simple
community building. Compared to Duncan's vision, 120 minutes of orc
manual labour sounds like bliss. Work! Work! 3/10 – Needs more woodcraft. Worth no viewings.
