3
Savages, Cannibalism and Necrophilia (if you consider ripping-off Horror-Classic grave-violation)

Let's image following scenario: A man sits on a chair, possibly smoking
a cigar. At his feet sits another man, frantically polishing a pair of
shoes. Let's call the man with the cigar "Big Quentin" and the other
one "Little Eli". Big Quentin: Well, Little Eli, what have you produced these days?Little Eli: Oh… nothing much, I guess. There was that sequel to my
torture-porn-flick, but it seems like I'm really running out of ideas.Big Quentin: Yes, good ideas are sparse. Remember what I taught you:
why go through the effort of making up a story of your own, when you
can rip-off somebody else's? Little Eli: You mean, I should make another slasher-flick and put your
name on the cover? How about a reboot of "Hostel"? Big Quentin: No, be a little more creative! The field is so big –
Spaghetti-Westerns, mercenary-flicks, Mondo, Blaxploitation,
Nunsploitation, Nazisploitation… Little Eli: Please, no Nazis for me! You know… my image and all. Big Quentin: Well, then how about a Cannibal-flick? There hasn't been a
real one for almost 40 years. Little Eli: Like "Cannibal Holocaust"? I love that film! Always wanted
to make a movie like that Lenzi-dude (pronounces it "Lencee").Big Quentin: Yeah… (rolls his eyes). But not just 'like' "Cannibal
Holocaust", but more like a remake without calling it a remake.
Remember: we don't call it "plagiarizing", we call it "a nod". You get
my drift? Little Eli: Yes, Sir. Stealing. But won't horror-buffs notice that?
"Cannibal Holocaust" is rather influential and well-known among
aficionados. Big Quentin: For god's sake, you think real horror-buffs watch your
crap? No, you've got another target-audience. Impressionable teenagers,
who wouldn't know a classic horror-film from Adam. So make it hip, make
it snappy. Keep it light with the humour, add a few pretty faces. You
know, a few hunks for the gals and a few bazongas for the boys. Think
of "Scream", just with jungle-cannibals instead of psycho-killers. Little Eli: What about the actors? Should I also work with laymen like
Lenzi did in "Cannibal Holocaust"? Big Quentin: Well, perhaps not complete laymen. Bad actors will do. You
know, Reality-TV-material, acting-school-graduates, bimbos. Heck, you
tell me … you married one! Little Eli: Great Idea! Big Quentin: And add some drugged-out socialites, kids will dig that.
Like the one with the vacant stare … Little Eli: Who? Paris? Big Quentin: No, the newer model in the bleached wig. Little Eli: And what about the animal-snuff? Don't think that stuff
would be "contemporary". Big Quentin: Of course not, you numb-skull! Most of your fans are vegan
college-kids, who consider eating fish-fingers genocide! Instead, give
it an "environmentally-friendly"-twist. Those kids will gobble it down.Little Eli: How about… (bites his lips in contemplation)… how about a
group of wealthy, sheltered college-kids traveling to the rain forest
to… to, you know, "make a difference"? Big Quentin: Atta boy! Have their plane crash in the jungle after they
have saved some trees. You know: "South-America"? "Plane-crash"?
"Realism"… hint-hint? Little Eli: Of course, that was also such a great film! Oh, master!
You're a genius! Maybe you could figure it out for me: In the real
"Cannibal Holocaust", for the life of me, I don't get how they managed
that scene with the impaled girl… I mean, it looked so… real! Big Quentin: That's because you're a hack, who doesn't know the first
thing about convincing special-effects. Unlike Ruggero… but now get on
with it! I don't want to sit here all day long! Little Eli: Guess you're right, Sir. (Applies more spit and polishes at
an even fast pace). By the way: What's a "Rooggeroh", Sir… ? Big Quentin: (sighs, puffs on his cigar and continues to read a copy of
Variety)3/10
