8
We are infinite

Greetings again from the darkness. Brace for gushing. Last evening I
attended a screening that included a fascinating Q&A with
writer/director Stephen Chbosky. It reminded me of how personal and
intimate and observant and incisive a well-made film can be. A well
written script is so refreshing, and an exceptional script can be truly
breath-taking. Mr. Chbosky takes the unusual step of directing his own
screenplay based on his own novel (a 1999 bestseller), and he left me
stunned and enthralled.The popularity of the novel would typically make the film version a
disappointment for its fans. Not so this time. Mr. Chbosky remains true
to the spirit despite the need to edit for the sake of continuity and
brevity. The key characters spring to life thanks to the efforts of
four strong performances from young actors: Logan Lerman (Percy
Jackson, The Three Muskateers) plays Charlie, Emma Watson (Harry Potter
films) is Sam, Ezra Miller (We Need to Talk About Kevin, City Island)
is Patrick, and Mae Whitman (Arrested Development) is Mary Elizabeth.If you have read the book, you know the story ... you know the
characters ... you know the themes. If you haven't read the book, I
will spoil nothing. The brilliance is recognized only as you get to
know these characters and slowly uncover their stories. What we
discover is that, regardless of our age, we recognize these characters
from our high school days. We know the introverted, observant Charlie
who so desperately needs a support system. We surely recognize the
attention-starved, lacking in self-esteem Sam who is the epitome of "We
accept the love we think we deserve". And we all knew a Patrick ... the
flamboyant one who sheaths his pain with an over-the-top act of public
confidence. What Chbosky does is shine the spotlight on these
characters to ensure that we really SEE them this time.The themes reminded me a bit of a darker John Hughes film (that's a
compliment). There were also pieces of two other really good films:
Stand By Me and Almost Famous. The formative years of a writer
determine the depths to which his or her work will reach later in life.
Admittedly, the film is substantially autobiographical, so when Mr.
Chbosky says it's a personal story, we begin to understand the
foundation of his remarkable writing style."Welcome to the island of misfit toys." When this line is spoken, we
realize that most every high school kid has thought the same thing at
some point. These are painful and difficult times and as Mr. Chbosky
stated, we should encourage kids to fight through this stage and get on
to the next ... then able to find their true self. Clearly, the film
made a strong impact on me. My favorite reaction to a movie is profound
thought, and this one caused this in waves. The decision to release as
PG-13 was wise. There is no excess of profanity or nudity to divert
attention from what really matters ... the characters. I can think of
no finer compliment to a writer and filmmaker than to cite them as the
cause of my internal discussions related to their film. My hope is that
you have the same reaction.
(http://moviereviewsfromthedark.wordpress.com/)
