10
Exhilarating! Wildly entertaining!

Exhilarating! Edgar Wright's Baby Driver is an accelerated non-stop
action-thriller that will have you in high-gear the entire drive time.
Wildly entertaining! It offers up the best car chases, excellent
characters, and displays solid writing in this subgenre of action
films. During the golden age of Hollywood cinema, grand getaways,
robberies, and car chase movies were a staple. Sony/Tristar, et al,
demonstrate that one of the foundational plot types that provided
audiences with thrills back then can be effectively resurrected today
to embody the engine that drove those motion pictures and install it
into a new, sleek body design to mesmerize and impress audiences of
today. Certainly, Baby drives to the beat of his own mixtape in this
movie, but the film itself goes further and integrates the rhythm of
action into the sound design of the motion picture. Not to be left
behind on the 80s throwback movies and TV shows bandwagon featuring
hipsters and mixtapes, Wright crafts a summer film that rises above the
all too cliché CGI robots taking to the sky and pirates swashbuckling
across the seas to remind us that little can compare to the squeal of
the wheel, love, and the witty turning of phrase. In short, Baby Driver
is a self-aware pop-culture film but has the soul of a James Dean
motion picture.Meet Baby (Elgort). Yes, that's B-A-B-Y Baby. He's the unparalleled
talented getaway driver for Doc's (Spacey) Atlanta crime ring. With
earbuds in place, playing classic rock or his own mixtapes, Baby
drives, speeds, and maneuvers to the beat of his tunes. No police force
is a match for his ability to evade his would-be captors in order to
return Doc's henchman (and woman) to the secret lair. As chance would
have it, Baby meets Debora (James), the girl of his dreams, at his
usual diner. All that stands in his way is one more job for Doc, or so
he thinks. With payment in full of his debt to Doc on the horizon, Baby
seen this as his opportunity to make a clean break and to ditch his
shady lifestyle of crime. But when Doc approaches Baby with yet another
job, Baby must decide to whom his allegiances lie and protect those he
loves.Any veteran filmmaker will tell you that it's vitally important to hook
the audience within the first three to five minutes of a film. Fail to
hook producers at the beginning of the screenplay, and it's
file-thirteen for those 120 pages. As a director, it's encumbered upon
him or her to grab hold of the audience's attention, creating the urge
to want more, to know more. The first scene of Baby Driver is an
incredible display of excellence in writing, directing, and the
technical elements of motion picture creation. The magic of this scene
lies in the ability for Wright to wow the audience without leaving
anyone "out there in the dark" (Sunset Blvd) overly stimulated or left
with the feeling of utter exhaustion. The scene is perfectly
stimulating. It sets the bar high for the film, and continues to keep
it up there for the entire runtime. Just like the pace of Baby's
driving, the pacing of the film is exquisitely handled and couldn't be
better! The biggest difference between this robbery/getaway film and
similar films such as The Fast and the Furious is substance. In
addition to the incredible cinematography and sound design paired with
out of the world car chases, the film provides heart, soul, and
qualitative substance that forms the foundation upon which the more
superficial elements are laid.The cast couldn't have been more brilliantly selected. One of the
hallmarks of an Edgar Wright film is the charismatic leads that display
solid chemistry on screen. Just who are our heroes in this film? You'll
just have to watch it and decide for yourself. I love it when films
take the more conventional concept of heroes and villains and turns it
on its head. For whomever you decide are the heroes, you'll certainly
find yourself actively rooting for their survival and rooting for the
villains to meet their demise in shockingly creative ways. When Kevin
Spacey isn't busy being the President of the United States, or more
recently, an ex-President, he is the king pin of an Atlanta- based
crime syndicate that stages fantastically wild robberies. And Baby is
indebted to him and must reluctantly aid and abet as the best getaway
driver ever to hit the screens in recent years-- think a modern-day
James Dean. Jaime Foxx plays the veteran head henchman extremely well
and adds his own repulsive, yet comedic charm to his role. It would
have been far too easy to play off Spacey and Foxx's conventional
talents to steel focus away from the central plot, but Wright strikes a
perfect balance between his leads and the story. Elgort and Spacey's
on-screen chemistry was crafted with strategic precision in order to
quickly solidify the frien-emy relationship between the two characters.
With Elgot increasing in popularity, Wright could have deflated to
playing up the attractive bad boy tropes but instead allows Elgot's
Baby to develop organically throughout the film.If you are seeking a summer film that clearly demonstrates a movie in
which all the creative elements work seamlessly together in the manner
in which they were respectively intended, then don't miss Baby Driver
while it's in theatres. The energy you will feel in this film is nearly
unparalleled by any in recent times, and that's because both the major
and minor components work together like a well-oiled machine. You will
be at full throttle as you are instantly transported from your
auditorium seat to the passenger seat in Baby's car.
