5
Makes the 2007 Hit-man film look like a masterpiece!

I never expected anything more of this film than run of the mill action
with the Hit-man flavor. I was sorely disappointed. Firstly I felt like
the first hour or so of the film was a take on "The Terminator" with a
bit of a "Leon: The Professional" vibe too. There was even an
antagonist who had rejuvenating body armour like a Terminator cyborg.
He got shot plenty of times to kill him and even electrocuted but
wouldn't die. Agent 47 was basically reduced to a supporting character
and the "sixth sense" nonsense where the female protagonist learns to
harness her own Hit-man skills is laughable. Throw in the old "you're
brother and sister" and you've got your classic 1am made-for-TV
b-movie. However my greatest disappointment was at the end when they
take the HQ down and do all of this "in-sync" shooting with one
another, crossing arms etc... it was so cringe worthy. The only cool
part of the film for me was when I accepted she had a sixth sense of a
sort and at the very end where the female protagonist anticipated a
powerful army or special ops team of sorts coming up the stairs to get
them, when in fact it was Agent 48. Then the film ended. It was kind of
cool. I love Hit-man but was very disappointed although I do feel if
they ever make another one they need to have an actor who is
essentially a no-name because 47 is so blank in the face if you had a
famous person playing the character I feel you would lose your
suspension of disbelief. No disrespect to The Late Paul Walker who was
in talks to play the iconic video game character. Lastly I feel that
what the Hit-man games are about; stealth and creative ways to execute
contracts is not what an action films wants which is full on
shoot-outs. In the game Hit-man if you carried on the way they did in
this film (or the last to be honest) then you would lose so many points
for not being a "silent assassin" as he "goes loud" almost every time
in this. The need to go Nolan-Batman, dark themed if they were to
translate this into a successful film franchise.
