7
Another "Not-Easy-to-Watch" but altogether Impressive Coen Bros movie

I saw Inside Llewyn Davis in a sold out matinée in Union Square, NYC
last weekend. The city was cold and dreary, much like the 1960s
Manhattan depicted in this film. I sat with my friend after the movie
and basically railed against the film for the first ten minutes before
slowly admitting that my criticisms were obviously the intended result
and that the Coen Brothers have once again made a great movie that is
simply not easy to digest and certainly not fun to digest. I'll lead with the greatness. The underlying takeaway of this film is
that the actual creation of music - the sound, the beauty and the
lyrical story - can embody some of the best attributes about humanity
and yet, the creator of such music can nonetheless lack all such
attributes and essentially be as ugly a person as his music is
beautiful. That is the takeaway, and the Coen Bros intentionally force
this upon the viewer. The folk songs song by Lleywn serve as calming
beautiful interludes and as stark contrasts to the plot driven by a
character who is simply put, a terrible human being stuck in an
extremely frustrating, self-made vacuum of an existence. I assume that most people, like me, gravitate toward wanting to root
for the struggling artist. There is a nobility in pursuing your dreams
when such dreams consist of the pursuit of an art form. Here, folk
music is put on a pedestal and LLewyn's pursuit of it is from the
outset, something the audience implicitly will support. In the course
of 90 minutes, the Coen Bros force you to question this support, hate
the lead character and eventually cheer when he gets punched in the
face. The problem is simple. I did not want any more of LLewyn Davis after 90
minutes. I did not want to hear his music anymore because the lyrics he
sung were fraudulent, the beauty of his playing, a guise. And due to
his self-made failings throughout the film, I no longer cared where his
story went. The Coen Bros could have taken the plot line in any number
of ways to give the viewer some foothold to hope that Llewyn may end up
on the right track one day. They do not give you that foothold, and for
that reason, I was pretty ready for this movie to end when it did. This
is admittedly a criticism, but more an observation. I certainly do not
need films to end with rainbows and hearts, but this script really
forces you to watch a man stuck in a static world where his own actions
cause him to go nowhere, and that is a frustrating world to inhabit for
90 minutes.The best parts of the film are not the Manhattan scenes, but the drive
LLewyn takes to Chicago. The Coen Bros have used the theme of "driving
at night" time and time again to make some great scenes, usually
emotionally charged personal voyages. This is no different. Their
cinematography and over all character driven story telling shines when
their lead characters hit the road. The bit characters are fun and
unusual in the Coen Bro's way, but do little to ease the 90 minutes of
crass, immature, self-defeating, out-of-touch and eventually just
pathetic life movements from Lleywn's characterFor Coen Brother fans, its worth the journey; for general movie fans,
be warned, as this is an interesting film, but arguably not an
enjoyable one.
