7
May include confusion, malaise, apathy, and/or delusion

If you're lucky, Side Effects won't be permanent. For half of the
movie, it is a persuasive indictment of the pharmaceutical industry and
its crass behavior toward its patients; for the other half, it is a
three- cornered mystery/thriller, with double crosses and framings
galore. It is fair to say that the movie is adequate during each of its
disparate parts, but overall it's a convoluted story that immerses
itself in faux intrigue and wraps itself up so neatly that you can
practically see the bow on it. Emily (Rooney Mara) is a depressive; her husband Martin (Channing
Tatum) has just returned from a stint in prison for insider trading,
but she feels anxious and can't sleep. She visits psychiatrist Jonathan
Banks (Jude Law), who prescribes a brand-new drug to help her out when
the better-known brands (Zoloft, Paxil, Wellbutrin, etc.) don't seem to
break Emily from her ennui. But the drug, as you might have guessed so
expertly, does have its side effects.It turns out - not a spoiler - that Emily has begun to sleepwalk. Well,
more than sleepwalk, she does things in her sleep, like cook breakfast
and set the table, all in the middle of the night and not remembering a
thing the next day. Tragedy strikes while Emily sleeps. Is she the
culprit, or is the drug to blame?At first, the premise seems to be that involving patients in drugs that
are just approved, as part of a study, is pretty unethical behavior by
a doctor. Dr. Banks has bills to pay, though, what with his wife losing
her high-powered job. So he's working longer hours and taking on more
work, including participation in this study. When the tragedy that
strikes comes back to haunt him as well as Emily, the movie takes a
turn - it manages to turn Banks from being just an overextended shmoe
into a manipulative drug dealer who uses his patients as experiments.
Up until this point, we don't know whether Banks is actually innocent.
From what we've seen, he seems so, but he could have inadvertently
caused someone's death by prescribing medication to someone who reacted
badly to the side effects. Naturally, his reputation (and marriage) in
ruins, Banks works to clear his name. This is actually easier than it
is in most movies of this ilk, because he's not in prison or anything.
He just needs to piece together clues.One of those clues is Emily's last doctor, Victoria Siebert (Catherine
Zeta-Jones), who is helpful but guarded. She relates that Emily left
her care in Connecticut when Emily's husband got a job on Wall Street,
which ultimately led Emily to see Dr. Banks.The second half of the movie deals with Banks' efforts to find things
out. Racing against time and struggling to believe various stories, he
is now in full-on victim mode as presented to the viewer. It's not an
unusual role; in fact, it's sort of a trope, the innocent trying to
prove themselves. We're now sold on his innocence, and we as the
audience just want to know what's happened.I mentioned before that the movie ends rather neatly. Too neatly for my
tastes, although it's not as if the explanations were implausible. But
there's nothing wrong with some loose ends, some ambiguity, and this
film - the 50th and final (maybe?) to be directed by Steven Soderbergh
- leaves nothing ambiguous behind. We know, in full, the motives and
fates of each character. Is this a good thing? Many won't be bothered
by it, but for me I just prefer to have some questions left unanswered. Law is adequate, although it feels like he's just stepping in for Tom
Cruise when Cruise did all of those "framed man on the run" movies,
like The Firm. Zeta-Jones is icy and opaque, two beneficial traits for
her character. Mara, of course, steals the show, simply because of
this: up until the last moments of the movie, we don't know whether
anything about Emily is true. Instead of Law being the victim/accused,
Mara's character slips quietly into that very role. In Emily, Mara
brings the ambiguity the film needs - it's just too bad that ambiguity
did not spread to the rest of the film. Shame; that would be a nice
side effect indeed.
