4
Honestly, over-hyped and mediocre at best

There's a lot to like about this movie. Ryan Gosling gives a fantastic
performance, both nuanced and surprisingly emotional. The action, when
there is action, is well filmed and brutal and fun to watch. The CGI is
pretty much flawless, and I'm not joking when I say that while watching
this movie, you'll think you're watching a real world. The film is
interesting, it's well shot, well directed, it's visually stunning,
it's pretty, and the score is very thrilling. But as a whole, this
movie is just so god da*n boring. Look, I like slow paced movies, but this film is beyond slow paced.
It's brain dead. It's literally like watching a person with no arms and
legs try to crawl across a football field. I won't lie, at first I
liked this slow pace because it built up a lot of tension, a lot of
mystery, a lot of suspense, and I assumed that eventually the film
would kick into high gear; it never did. The pace remains constant
throughout the entire run time of this movie. It's excruciatingly slow.
The movie is almost 3 hours long, and it feels like 6. I couldn't wait
for this movie to end, I mean by the end of the movie I expected to
look in the mirror and see that I aged 65 years. And also, the film is also overly convoluted. I'm not saying that this
is a confusing film, because it's not; in fact, it's pretty
straightforward and easy to follow. It just simply felt like this movie
was convoluted for the sake of it being convoluted. At the time of
watching everything felt important. I had to pee so badly the entire
movie but I didn't want to get up because I felt like everything I was
watching was super important. However, only after viewing do I realize
that there were so many scenes that were totally unnecessary, that were
there only to make the movie longer, more bloated, and more
self-important.Unfortunately, there's just not much else to say. This is a simple
movie, and it gets a simple review. Look, I wanted to give this a high
score, but I just couldn't, and I don't understand why other people are
because this movie is simply not enjoyable or entertaining. Yes, it's
well made, a feast for the eyes and ears, but that doesn't make it a
good film; it makes it a well directed and produced film, but not a
good one.
