10
One of the most emotionally powerfully films I've seen in a while

Based on the novel of the same name by Patrick Ness, A Monster Calls is
one of the most emotionally powerful films I've seen in a long time.
Directed by J. A. Bayona, this is a film you'll want to be making sure
you have a pack of tissues ready for. Conor O'Malley (Lewis MacDougall) lives at home with his terminally ill
mother (Felicity Jones). Bullied relentlessly at school on a daily
basis and with no friends, Lewis finds himself spending most of the
free time he does have helping his mother.One night, Conor encounters a monster (Liam Neeson) in the form of a
giant yew tree. With the help of the monster, Conor learns a number of
valuable life lessons, as well as facing the nightmarish reality he
knows will come soon enough.Reports of A Monster Calls causing audiences to flood theatres with
tears during the festival circuit have been well documented however,
even they couldn't prepare me for J. A. Bayona's stunningly beautiful
film. The warning of emotional distress was even there for all to see
as the classification certificate appeared on screen prior to the film.This is an incredibly moving story, depressing for the most part
however, thanks to the fantasy elements of the story and the
relationship Lewis has with the monster, it can be strangely uplifting
at times. The film packs one hell of an emotional punch towards the end
but it doesn't just spring it on the audience because you can sense
that is exactly where it's going from the very beginning.The performances of Felicity Jones, Sigourney Weaver and Toby Kebbell
are all good but there is no debating here that the film ultimately
belongs to the young Lewis MacDougall, who manages to deliver a
performance that would make you think he's been acting for years, when
this is in fact only his second film. MacDougall really makes you
empathise with Conor and his performance in the final stages of the
film is sensational.The visuals deserve a special mention as well, the monster in
particular brought to life quite brilliantly through special effects
and a gruff vocal performance from Liam Neeson. They go hand- in-hand
with Bayona's visionary style as a director to make A Monster Calls a
must-see film.
