1
Just why?

Not only did everything happen way too fast, it didn't make much sense
either.As it was told to us near the end, he WAS the (more or less) same
person as before death, doing everything not because of his own desire,
but because of the women he love(s/d). What she wanted was explained
and he did exactly that.Being able to heal the planet, being able to cure diseases and
injuries, enhance and watch over literally everything, just why in the
name of pickles did he decided to throw everything away? His processing
capabilities were supposed to be beyond comprehension, and the best
thing he could come up with was basically sending the world back to the
stone age? And people were actually lining up behind this idea?Let's see. No communication, no worth of money, no medication, no
order, no disaster recovery, it's the end of economy so what comes are
spreading sicknesses, starvation, maybe a few wars here and there just
to spice it up a little... It's pure chaos and anarchy, nothing more.So against the wishes (heal the planet, to help people) of the most
important person to him, against his own...desire to keep her alive, he
was like "ah, screw it". That the blondie would've shot the other guy
(my apologies, I'm not good with names) is yet again irrelevant, with
the power at his fingertips he would've been able to recover him as
well. But killing off his love, himself and probably billions more is
sure a better idea.And please don't try the "people fear what they don't know" or "they
were scared it would take over the world" bull****, because with just
an ounce of intelligence they'd have realized that the upcoming
suffering and deaths of this new "dark age" and more suffering and
deaths in this still imperfect world is no better option than the worst
case scenario: the hive mind and loss of individuality, order,
prosperity and evolution. Again, that was the worst case scenario,
which was not at all the case.Personally I find it difficult to understand his everything but logical
decisions, to put it lightly.For me this movie was simply horrible, an awful experience.P.S.: I do not exactly care about the actors, the acting, the serenity,
the animations or anything else...at all. I am talking about the story,
the plot, nothing else.
