3
Had Potential, Very Poorly Executed

Let me start by saying I did enjoy the first Silent Hill movie. I can
allow myself to enjoy horror films, even with a certain degree of
cheese. The first film retained the chilling atmosphere projected in
the games. It also had good monster design and a reasonable plot. To be
frank, I feel a sequel was totally unnecessary.Firstly, the film contained some very bad acting. I'm wondering what
the need was for so many British actors, some newcomer American actors
and actresses could have matched the performances in this film. It says
a lot about a director when established actors such as Sean Bean and
Malcolm McDowell do such a terrible job. Plus, the incredibly brief
screen time given to Erin Pitt is possible some of the worst acting I
have ever seen.Secondly the relationships established within the short amount of time
this film spans are totally unrealistic and ridiculous. For example,
Vincent and Sharon. After Vincent's quick and unreserved acceptance of
Sharon's f***ed up situation, we learn of Vincent's background. He's
part of the crazy religious cult that started this mess in the first
place, and has been indoctrinated all his life to believe Sharon is
evil. We are supposed to accept that suddenly this fundamentalists
throws his beliefs to the wind because he got a funny feeling in his
groin area? Now, we all know what religious extremists are like, you're
going to have a pretty hard time of convincing them of any logic. I'm
sorry, but I can only suspend my disbelief so much.Cut to the mannequin scene, which was unsuccessful in building any
suspense, we are faced with the Mannequin Monster. Now, this is bad
monster design. I was severely disappointed, I've seen better CGI on
Buffy. Obviously, I have to cut it some slack considering the movies
budget was less than half of the originals.Once we've been assaulted by some more terrible acting they introduce
the "SEAL OF METATRON" (Hahahaha) which once handed to Claudia reveals
her true nature, which is apparently a big-titted, corset clad, blade
wielding monster. This monster is soon to face a gratuitous battle to
the death with Pyramid Head, who isn't half as scary as last time (
last time he flayed someone alive!) This film just feels like a tacky,
gimmicky take on the first one.Lastly we are suppose to accept that after years of Sharon's Dad
protecting her, and after rushing to Silent Hill to save him after
being warned many a time not to, she is perfectly happy for her Dad to
stay there to find her Mother. So Sharon and Vincent skip happily off,
forgetting about the horrendous nightmares that have tortured their
entire existence.So to summarise, to watch this film would be a total waste of your
time, and the effort I put into warning you not to watch it. But if you
are a bit like Sharon and like to ignore warnings, don't say I
didn't...warn...you.If only Sharon had known all along that all she required to beat Alessa
was a nice big cuddle. D'awww.
