8
You can never cheat death

In recent times it seems like a sci fi thriller is a tricky movie to
master, and whilst I don't pretend that Self/less mastered it, it's a
very watchable and enjoyable movie.'Billionaire Damian, a man responsible for enormous business deals, a
big figure with the ability to buy whatever he wants, but not the thing
he needs, a cure for cancer. Out with friend and fellow business man
Martin a card is slipped into Damian's possession, Phoenix biogenic,
with a message on the back of help. Damian attends and meets Professor
Albright, who explains the procedure on offer, Damian's living
consciousness can be transplanted into a new body, a body that's been
cultivated. Damian accepts and wakes up a fit young man. Albright
insists on meeting weekly, giving Damian the pills he must take without
fail. As time goes on Damian starts having disturbing visions, the
constant being a woman, little girl, and a pumpkin tower. Researching
the tower he is led to St Louis, where he discovers the truth behind
his new guise and the sinister Albright.I really did enjoy this movie, the concept was a good one, it was a
clever plot. There were enough surprises and plenty of intrigue to keep
you wondering.If I had one little niggle, it's that for me after the transformation
to Reynolds it felt like a different film, it didn't feel seamless,
maybe that was intentional, I felt they could have delved into the
transition a little deeper, it seemed to happen to quickly.Lots of action scenes, really well directed, the effects were great
too. I wish Google searches worked so quickly for me, Pumpkin Towers
(All I'm saying. 11,300,000 results,) my he was lucky.Brilliantly acted, Kinglsey naturally has gravitas, he's so watchable.
Ryan Reynolds was excellent I thought, I really enjoyed his
performance, Matthew Goode I thought was outstanding, managing to be
sinister without overplaying it. I love Michelle Dockery, but she was a
little underused, just a bit part.8/10 Very watchable, surprisingly so.
