8
JACK REACHER: Action movie-making done right!

Saw JACK REACHER on Monday night at an advance screening. Here's some
of my thoughts. There are no spoilers.First off, I'd say I agree with the general critical reception: 4/5
stars. To me that means it's a solid movie that delivers at the high
end of its genre. JACK REACHER isn't trying to be anything
revolutionary, it's more the kind of action thriller audiences haven't
seen for a while.This isn't MISSION: IMPOSSIBLE or even James Bond. Writer/director
Christopher McQuarrie takes his inspiration from action movies of the
late 60s/early 70s like DIRTY HARRY (which has been name checked in a
couple reviews already), BULLITT (for the car chase); and maybe another
Don Siegel movie, CHARLEY VARRICK. The excitement here doesn't come
from over the top stunts or huge explosions. Like the action movies
just referenced, you thrill to watching a strongly defined protagonist
outsmart, outfight and outmaneuver the bad guys.Which brings me to the character of Jack Reacher and the casting of Tom
Cruise. In the series of novels by Lee Child this movie is based on,
Jack Reacher is an ex-MP detective. After a lifetime spent on military
bases overseas, he lives as a drifter in the United States who adheres
to a life of zero commitments: No house, no job, no car, no
possessions, no family. Oh, and he stands 6'5" and weighs 250 lbs.Clearly Tom Cruise doesn't match that physical description. What makes
Reacher such a great character in Child's books though has far less to
do with his exterior than it does with his intellect. If you've read
the series as I have, it's a little strange at first. As the film
played out however, I got more relaxed and more into it. This was
definitely a movie about Lee Child's hero Jack Reacher, physical
differences be damned.Would I have preferred an unknown actor closer to Child's description
to play Reacher on screen? Yes, of course. But I could say that about
virtually any character, and often do. I generally want unknowns for
everything.Which is where Cruise's casting comes in handy a bit. Because his
casting sort of guarantees a certain amount of box office, it means the
filmmakers can take more chances. Like crafting an action movie that's
longer on character and occasional brutal violence and short on
mindless action and impossible nonsense.JACK REACHER was a very satisfying action thriller for me. I felt it
captured what I love about Lee Child's thrillers and Jack Reacher in
particular. I'd definitely recommend it, and I'm going to see it in the
theater again. That's for damn sure.
