9
Beats JJ Abram's Farce Awakens

Just like the thousands of Star Wars fans out there in the world, I was
absolutely giddy when I heard that J.J. Abrams was taking the
director's helm for the seventh installment of George Lucas's beloved
space opera. After I saw the Force Awakens, I was not sure how I felt
about the movie. It has gotten so many rave reviews and I desperately
wanted to feel the same way. After some time since its release and the
adrenaline rush has worn out, I can honestly say that it was a big
disappointment for me as a Star Wars fan. I will not get into the
reasons as to why that is since the top reviews of Force Awakens do a
superb job pointing out the flaws of that monstrosity.So anyhow, I went to see this film with low expectations because of my
previous disappointment with the recent addition of the Star Wars
franchise. Boy, was I wrong.Gareth Edwards puts the WARS in Star Wars unlike I've seen AND felt in
the previous films. The dark and serious tone of the film makes you
feel the rebel's fear of gruesome warfare as they fight against the
more well- equipped and ruthless Empire. At one point, the film was
reminiscent of WWII films due to its excellent portrayal of battle
scenes. The acting and dialogue was for the most part well done, and the comic
reliefs in the film did not feel as forced as *ahem FORCED Awakens.The director also does an excellent job connecting the prequels and the
original series together. If a viewer sees the series in the numbered
order with this film, the story line will play out seamlessly.And lastly, Darth Vader's scenes in the film definitely adds a
terrifying legacy to his name. I will not spoil the scenes for you, but
he portrays ruthlessness here that was not seen in the other films. The
viewer will have a better grasp as to why he is such a feared character
in the universe.J.J. Abrams diminished my love for Star Wars. This film has brought
back hope in me for the franchise once more as Jyn Erso has done with
the rebels.
