9
Nothing exceeds like excess

THE GREAT GATSBY There is no movie I have been more prepared to dislike
than this one. How dare some Aussie come over here and tell us about
the meaning of one of the great works of American literature.
Especially this Aussie, Baz Luhrmann, who is known to overload,
over-hype and overcook his theatrical product into a glittery miasma of
small meaning and little consequence. (i.e. Moulin Rouge) But I was wrong.Jay Gatsby has achieved success in a fashion beyond most imaginations,
excepting his own. In true Horatio Alger tradition he has worked hard
to improve himself, but when his past creeps up on him and threatens
his well crafted self image, he suavely and effortlessly changes it,
his past, and he inhabits the change until it becomes the reality. He
is the self made American man in every way. He is the American success
myth both personified and perverted.Unlike Alger's heroes, he has not followed the straight and narrow. He
has acquired his fabulous wealth through bootlegging and stock
swindles. This belief, that he can change his past, to correct it as it were, has
given him a veneer of respectability that has put him in good stead
with his underworld connections. But it is not for them that Gatsby has
made this remarkable metamorphosis. No, he did everything, and I mean
everything, for the love of a woman. Daisy was Gatsby's great love, but he lost her, and now in one final
herculean effort he is going to correct his past this one last time. He
is going to win her back and make things as they should have been.Leo DeCaprio is the only actor of this generation that could play
Gatsby, just as Robert Redford could only play Gatsby the previous
generation. Redford's Gatsby seemed reticent and insecure about his
past; regretful that he must live a lie in order to accomplish his
goal. DeCaprio's Gatsby is forceful, decisive; he is a determined man
of significant accomplishment and great ability. He has a plan and he
is going to execute it and as far as he is concerned, for all the right
reasons. For myself, it is DeCaprio's best and most powerful
performance. This decision (both DeCaprio's and Luhrmann's) to take Gatsby down from
some ethereal literary icon into a flesh and blood human being gives
the movie an intensity that the 1974 version and most of the literary
criticism of the book that I have ever read, never perceived. This is
not a shining white knight rescuing a damsel in distress; this is a
bare knuckles brawl for the hand of Daisy, and she is going to have to
choose. Tom Buchanan (Joel Edgerton) is Gatsby's antagonist. He and Daisy were
married when Daisy could no longer wait for Gatsby to prove himself
worthy of her. Tom is as rich, maybe even richer than Gatsby, but his
money is old, he is an aristocrat with a deep sense of entitlement. He
has status and wealth because he's supposed to have status and wealth,
and he's not about to give up all that, and certainly not his wife, to
this new money usurper Gatsby, without a fight.Bruce Dern played Tom as a kind of loopy (Dern's specialty) racial
conspiracy nut, but Edgerton gives Tom a much harder edge. When Tom
espouses his vile racial philosophies one might think that someday he
might actually do something about it.Daisy (Carey Mulligan) is a tough role. For all the time that Gatsby
spends trying to prove he is good enough for Daisy, the audience, for
the book or the film, is led down the path that she is not good enough
for him. Mia Farrow played Daisy as an airhead and a dingbat, but
Mulligan gives Daisy a bit more spine, and fashions a character that
has a pretty good idea where her self-interests lay. Luhrmann and co-writer Craig Pearse stay pretty close to the text with
a few additions and devices, most notably, to those of us who read the
book, know that it is Nick Caraway (Tobey Maguire) who tells the story,
and is a firsthand witness to all the events, but we never knew from
where he tells the story. Luhrmann tells us it is from a sanitarium
where Nick is drying out from excessive alcoholism. As for Luhrmann's reputation for excess: Well, he certainly visualizes
Gatsby's parties as excess, but they are supposed to be excessive,
excessive materialism is part of the point of the story. There are
times when Luhrmann can't resist himself and feels the compulsion to
punctuate matters with some visual flourish, but I did not find it too
distracting. His decision to go 3D however, I think was wise. The
characters seem to come out of the screen and get next to you. You get
to know them personally, and after all this is a very personal story.I think this story has survived the test of time so well because it is
basically a love story. Whatever the viewers or readers opinion of the
characters are, Gatsby and Daisy do love each other, but Fitzgerald was
not interested in boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl and
they all live happily ever after. Where Fitzgerald reached his own
aspiration of creating high art is in wondering if living happily ever
after is even possible in an age of class consciousness, even class
warfare, that is driven by a compulsive materialism in a world changing
so fast that we can't even formulate the question before we have to
come up with an answer. Luhrmann stays true to these themes and
displays an avid curiosity about them himself. What he has created is a work of art that stands very well on its own.check out http://blognmovies.tumblr.com/
