4
Spymovie with twists, a good director and good actors, what could go wrong?

Everything, in this case.1st: Spymovie - we've seen many of these and Unlocked unlocked (huh!)
every possible twists and clichés a spy-movie could offer for the
viewer.2st: Twists - like stated above,there are many, and exactly because of
the huge amount of them, if you've ever watched any Mission Impossible,
or Bourne movies, you will find out the next one BEFORE they even
happen.3rd: Good director, who has no superpowers to make a great movie from a
"ctrl+c ctrl+v" screenplay, that is full of plot holes, non-senses,
clichés. He is still doing a great job, and at least keeps the pace up,
making Unlocked a somewhat watchable action-movie.4rd: Just look at the credits, Noomi Rapace, John Malkovich, Toni
Colette, Michael Douglas. Oh, I almost forgot that Orlando Bloom was in
the movie, too. It's hard to use that many talent in a single movie,
and despite all of the stars worth their money and doing alright, they
are too much at once.*SPOILERS FROM HERE*I will elaborate my statements above,and you will agree with me once
you saw the movie.Since you know it is a spy-movie, you know from the very start, that
nobody can't be trusted. Everybody knows that.Except the main character, who is a CIA interrogator and should've
known better, but she seems the most clueless person in the entire
world for the most part of the movie. She's been played and fooled as
may times as possible.Alright, the whole CIA isn't any better as it took them almost a day to
notice that their VIP captivate with the whole CIA team escorting him
did not arrive to the final destination.Now let's see some clichés!Michael Douglas plays the wise old mentor of the main character a la
Jon Voight in the 1st M:I movie. Surprise! He will die early. Surprise!
He will return later. How and why is the "main ""twist"" " in the movie
so I won't tell you right away. You can find out easily on your own at
the very moment he dies on screen.More clichés are like flashbacks to (supposedly) fill up plot holes and
make our jaws drop. Did not work. Silent white haired bad guy. (Lethal
Weapon and Da Vinci code should ring a bell) Useless funny characters,
a secret apartment to hide at with keys above the fire extinguisher
etc. etc.Let's move on to the too many stars in one movie problem. Poor Orlando
Bloom who suffered the most (in my opinion). He is in the movie for
like 30 minutes. During this short time he meets and makes friends with
protagonist, fights alongside her, turns against her, then disappears.
Yes, disappears as nobody knows for sure what happened with him but all
honestly nobody will care in the end. Again, Alice was the silly one
here who trusted the military trained guy who all accidentally showed
up at the supposedly secret apartment in the very moment she arrived. These moments ruin the entire movie. Also, Alice is an interrogator,
still she's the one who tracks down the public enemy No.1 bad guy in
the end and assassinates him which also makes zero sense.I could go on and point out all these disturbing moments and
non-senses, but you better watch it yourself. Or not, if you listened
closely.They had all the chance to make a good movie but Unlocked wanted to be
much more than that. And it failed.
