2
How Many Everest 1996 Tragedy Movies Do We Really Need?

Is anything in this movie a spoiler? haha. I will try not to put
spoilers, just as in any review I write, but I wanted to be safe, for
those born after '96 and who missed it on the news, etc.I can't even count how many ways this was a horrid movie. Even the
photography seemed very claustrophobic much of the time (most probably
those were the studio scenes depicting the mountain). That style may
have been intended to give some intimacy to the huge IMAX format but it
just made it worse. To be fair, the real mtn shots were wonderful, but
not near as good as David Breashears' IMAX footage during this same
tragedy (but Breashears is a multi-decade mountaineering filmmaker),
and shown in *his* movie about 1996 (and his others). I have seen 5-6
movies/docs about this, read 3 books, and have seen tons of media about
this, so was this movie really necessary, considering ALL the stuff
that is out there for people to source? At least one reviewer was
right, that it was just another attempt to make money from this
tragedy. What about the 2015 tragedy due to the earthquake? 19 people
died this year on Everest, which is *more* than in 1996. I would have
rather watched a movie about that.At first, I thought this was Rob Hall's version of the story, or at
least cobbled together from his teammates and clients. And I was very
interested in that, at first, but it was vapid and at a the cost of
barely any information or character development of the other major
players. SO much was left out as to make this more fiction or "based
on", rather than a real docudrama. It is a such recent history that
"based on" isn't appropriate yet. Things like Sandy Hill Pitman's need
to be carried up and down the mountain by Sherpas who had other vital
jobs was omitted. Many priorities got mixed up on that tragic day, and
this film omits many. I guess this is the jolly IMAX version rather
than an honest accounting and tribute to the deceased. Beck Weathers
never has sounded like an "Ugly Texan", so his lines and bravado about
Texas were silly and offensive, esp as I was born in Texas. His
character here, besides being largely a generalization, is an outdated
one and any truth that is in it has largely passed into history by now.
Weathers has always come across as a quiet, considered guy. The mtn may
have sobered up his "Himalayan Mtn High", but he was hardly a brash
young man, even then. His incredible story is almost completely fiction
here, yet it became solid history within a couple months after the
event. David Breashears was hardly anywhere to be found, the director
of the IMAX film that was shooting during this expedition, which he
stopped in the middle of, on peak filming days, to help with the
rescue. This resulted in a financial loss and a truncated movie for him
(but far better than this one), but he did the right thing. There are
many interesting and suspenseful side stories, all of which came
together to cause the tragedy, like the oxygen canister mix-up, but
where were they. All in all, even the TV movie, based on Jon Krakauer's wonderful book,
"Into Thin Air", was much better than this, and they didn't climb up
Everest to film it, you can be sure! Krakauer's and Breashears' (who
has summited 5 times now)great mtn films and books just made this look
silly. I have not read Anatoli Boukreev's book, who was also pivotal in
the rescue, and no doubt has a different outlook than the Americans,
but he also was basically ignored here, except for a couple nebulous
mentions. Even the love story of Rob Hall and his wife was mostly left
on the cutting room floor. What about Scott Fischer? All of these guys,
besides Rob Hall, were barely mentioned. And the Sherpas got no credit,
which is a crime, as without them, no white man (or any other color)
would have likely summited Everest to this day (one co-summited the
first summit), and they held the records for most summits until
Breashears matched it with his 5th summit, last time I checked. Yes, I
am irritated, as the build-up was so big, although I wasn't sure what
more could be told. I should have taken my suspicions more to heart! My
advice, if not completely obvious by now, is to watch and read the
other material about this story and skip this awful movie. And if you
liked it, all the more reason to delve into those.
