8
Beautiful, funny & eye-moisteningly wonderful.

Despite watching the trailer and knowing the broad story, Saving Mr. 

Banks still managed to surprise me. It's a beautiful, tender film that 

manages to be sad without being mawkish, funny without detracting from 

the emotion and with far greater depth than expected.



Unfolding the story of Walt Disney's attempt to persuade P.L. Travers 

to sell him the rights to her beloved Mary Poppins, Saving Mr. Banks is 

a delightful film that is deceptively emotional and flows smoothly 

enough to be entirely engaging.



Travers (Emma Thompson) thwarts Disney's (Tom Hanks) attempts to secure 

the rights for twenty years until a flatlining bank balance and a 

mildly panicking agent persuade her to at least consider Disney's 

proposition or lose her home with certainty. Whisking her to Hollywood 

and bombarding her with all things Disney, the master of the House of 

Mouse spares no expense or effort to woo Mrs Travers and persuade her 

to allow him to keep his promise to his daughters to film the books 

they loved so much. But nothing prepares him for the stubborn, exacting 

curmudgeon who challenges him at every twist and turn and demands and 

demeans in equal measures.



After the recent Captain Phillips, in which Hanks was astounding, there 

is a very good chance that he may join an exclusive group (of twelve so 

far, including co-star Emma Thompson) of actors to be nominated for two 

Oscars in the same year. Even more rarely, he'll deserve both 

nominations! Quite simply, it is impossible to imagine another actor in 

the role of Uncle Walt. He oozes charisma and his smile is used for so 

much more than merely expressing happiness. There is a genuine warmth 

to Hanks' performance and this is one of those rare occasions where I 

temporarily forgot I was watching him. He's been a very good actor for 

many, many years, but this year I've had to reassess my opinion of him 

and state that he has transcended his deserved 'movie stardom' to 

become a very fine actor indeed.



Unsurprisingly (and most welcome), Hanks is matched every single step 

of the way by Thompson. There is a magical thawing in her Travers in 

the course of Saving Mr. Banks where she pokes her head out of her 

hard, crispy chrysalis and threatens to become a warm(ish), witty 

woman. Early on in the film, it is difficult to like Travers as her 

demands become more extreme, her retorts more cutting and her demeanour 

downright unpleasant, but Kelly Marcel and Sue Smith's screenplay 

weaves the story of the film rights with the tale of Travers' troubled 

childhood to give reason for her crustiness and context to her literary 

creation. It is this aspect of Saving Mr. Banks that surprises most and 

completes the film.



Director John Lee Hancock (The Blind Side) approaches each side of his 

female protagonist's life very differently and her buried history is 

shot in muted, dusty colours with a jagged Western romanticism that 

tempers the bleak happenings that shaped the girl into the woman. Colin 

Farrell is on his best form for years as Travers Goff, the drunk father 

who lives in his own fantastic world of imagination and adventure to 

escape the harsh reality of the real world. He is a man who fails 

consistently and knows it, but loves his daughter unequivocally. As 

with Hanks and Thompson, the chemistry between Farrell and Annie Rose 

Buckley (playing Ginty, the young Travers) is effortlessly beautiful.



The casting is just one of the joys of Saving Mr. Banks, with Paul 

Giamatti chief amongst the supporting actors as Travers' driver, Ralph, 

a doleful puppy in human form that responds to every brush-off and 

verbal slap with another smile and encouraging word. In the studio 

Bradley Whitford as screenwriter Don DaGradi and B.J. Novak and Jason 

Schwartzman as the Sherman brothers bring more gentle humour as 

Travers' desperate, unwilling adversaries. There's no lazy leaning 

towards slapstick or cheap shots, rather Hancock steers their scenes 

gently allowing both the frostiness and the occasional sprinkles of 

sunlight to sparkle with sincerity.



There are hints of Travers' adult life beyond her books but, though 

comments remain, it feels as though the backstory was excised for the 

final cut and so I came away from the film feeling that something was 

missing. The final act is perhaps a little too tidy; it glides towards 

a resolution too smoothly and nothing is made of the rumoured aftermath 

of the deal, but these are minor niggles in a beautiful film that 

carries one along and moistens the eyes occasionally.



Saving Mr. Banks is an unqualified success. It is a joy to watch and 

leaves one hoping that Mary Poppins earns yet another screening in this 

year's Christmas TV schedule.


