1
No longer surprised as Disney continues to disappoint.

Last year, I made the horrible mistake of paying and wasting my time to
watch Frozen in theaters because I thought it would be a great Disney
classic (like Tangled). Finally, I can say that something good has come
out of watching the overrated trash that is also known as Frozen.
Thanks to my terrible experience with Disney's Frozen, I read the
entire plot for this movie before watching it. Thankfully, I ended up
saving a few bucks as it was evident that this movie, like Frozen, was
not worth paying to watch. Maleficent was basically a non-animated,
non-musical version of Frozen. Apparently Disney ran out of ideas and
decided to regurgitate the ideas from Frozen with different characters!
WONDERFUL. As expected, the main point was a rehash of Frozen's "true
love between women is better than true love between a man and woman"
because it sells well. After this movie, I can officially say that Disney has completely lost
its magic. We are now to believe that dream guys don't exist. In fact,
all men are either extremely evil or just stupid. What happened to the
brave Prince Charming in classic Disney stories? Disney has deserted
them and has decided to start making more 'realistic' movies nowadays
and by 'realistic', I mean movies with strong, independent females who
are clearly superior to the men. Disney's recent movies make me
question whether they are even supporting the concept of 'true love' or
dreams anymore. I grew up in a time where little girls could dream of
finding their kind and classy Prince Charming. BUT WAIT. The people at
Disney had an epiphany: having high expectations for guys is BAD.
Instead, let's encourage little girls to dream of being BFFs with a
sister who ignores her for years or becoming her father's worst enemy's
god-daughter instead! I'm just thankful I don't have to grow up
watching these lame Disney movies.I truly find Disney's efforts in reversing its reputation of true
love's kiss just pathetic. Hmm... cynicism in fairy tales? Just what we
need. As a classic Disney lover, count me out!Just a few comments:1) Prince Phillip used to be my FAVORITE Disney prince, but here, I
guess he's just another tool used by feminists to shove their message
down our throats.2) Maleficent DOESN'T turn into a dragon. Yup, you heard me. What's the
point of the movie then, you ask? I have no idea. Also, as you have
probably already guessed, there's no intense battle between Prince
Phillip and Maleficent-as-a-dragon either. Just splendid.3) WHY ON EARTH IS KING STEFAN THE VILLAIN? He was infatuated with
Maleficent and only married Queen Leila to take over the kingdom?! What
on earth has Disney come to?!?!?! This movie is an insult to Disney's
Sleeping Beauty. Stefan>Maleficent. #TeamStefanforlife4) Last, but definitely not least: what's up with trying to blur the
line between good and evil? (Yes, Frozen, I'm also looking at you.)
This is by far my biggest issue with recent Disney movies. I'm sure
Walt Disney is rolling in his grave. (Actually, since he was cremated,
perhaps I should say that his ashes are turning in his burial plot?
Either way, you get the idea.)"Of all the stirring legends of the triumph of good over evil, none has
ever been so inspirational to me as Sleeping Beauty." - Walt DisneyI hate to say it, but Disney is dead. Walt Disney, however, will
forever live on in our hearts.
