10
Michael Bay delivers a Masterpiece

After watching it for many times, I could not resist myself to review
this movie. This doesn't seem like a movie that Michael Bay would have
directed. But the minute the explosions and gunfire commences, you will
know that yes, this is indeed his film. He is after all, a pro at
making things blow up in style. The fire fights are bloody and will get
you right in the gut. No effort is spared in depicting the realities of
a prolonged gun battle spread out over 13 sleepless, exhausting hours.
The cinematography puts you right in the center of the melee. Make no
mistake about it. This is an immersive and visceral film."Things change fast here in Benghazi."Hollywood biographical war pictures are used as devices to mark
significant events of terrorism, a form through which we comprehend
accounts of reality and glimpse on the American psyche. Over the last
few years we have Zero Dark Thirty (2012), Lone Survivor (2013), and
American Sniper (2014), to name only a few. For 2016, Michael Bay leads
the strain of contemporary soldiers flick in 13 Hours: The Secret
Soldiers of Benghazi.This thrill riveting masterpiece not only captivated the lives of these
six soldiers and the people trapped between this battle between the
Libyan rebels, but Michael Bay did an excellent job with his use of
guns and sound system that he always does so well.  This is a masterful
film in almost every aspect and certainly in every way that truly
matters. Maybe knowing the real life set up and cover up to these
events helps elevate the appreciation of what hits the screen but the
film holds up well even if a viewer is unaware of world affairs. The
premeditated, brutal attack in 2012 on two United States installations
in Benghazi, Libya is a dark chapter in not only the war on terror but
in U.S. history in general. Expertly depicting the events surrounding
those attacks with such tension and emotion is a credit to this film
and those that made it. This includes the remarkable cast who each were
superb in their roles. And since I am a war movie fan, so this movie
has made up to my expectations. This movie is a must watch.
