10
Loved it.

Let me start with saying that when the movie was finished and the
lights were on again, I did not want it to end. I wanted to see what
would happen even afterwards, I wanted it to continue. I was stunned to
my seat with lot of thoughts and emotions.Plot: Two lifelong friends and mothers - Lil, who is a widower and Roz,
who is married - whose bonds go back to their childhood, adore each
other and their sons. Their sons are also best friends and during one
summer evening after wine and fun Roz and Ian (Lil's son) are getting
attracted to each other. Passion takes them into unknown and
questionable territory - they have sex. Tom (Roz's son) sees his mother
leaving Ian's room and Tom takes the news to Lil. It doesn't take long
for Lil and Tom to fall into the same pattern.There are hesitations, but these do not last long and the secret
relationships continue until the plot takes you to 2 years later when
Tom goes to Sydney. His visit to Sydney changes everything for four of
them - the nasty truth has its way to come out and alter everybody's
happy lives.I loved the story. It was dramatic, heartbreaking, beautiful and sad. I
loved the relationships and how these were handled in the movie. It's a
story where you have high doubts about happy endings. But the plot and
the director kept surprising you and it asked a lot of important
questions. What kind of love is acceptable? Does age matter? Can people
handle the consequences of their own actions and do these make them
happy? Is it allowed to fall passionately in love when you are
middle-aged? Why are people willing to give up on love even though they
do not want to do that, but know it's the only reasonable thing to do?
Is it love when you do what you think is best and hurt the one you love
with that? All these and many other questions were raised and it is up
to the viewer to decide and find the answers to them. What I loved
about Adore was exactly, that the answers were not given to you, it
woke a lot of thoughts.Adore was filled with interesting relationships. My favorite was the
relationship between Roz and Ian and it broke my heart to see what
people do to the ones they love. Roz wanted to give Ian free because of
her loyalty to Lil and because she wanted that Ian could enjoy his
young life. The sad thing was, that Ian did not want that freedom, he
ached for Roz for years, he loved her. Roz did what she felt was right
and suffered because of that.When you look at the relationship between Lil and Tom, it was simpler,
but not easier for that matter. There were more secrets and these
secrets hurt the not only themselves, but also Ian and Roz.Adore is a movie about love and betrayal and relationships.Directing, sets: I have seen few other movies directed by Anne Fontaine
and Adore proved once again, than she is one of the best female
contemporary directors. I personally think she did an excellent work
with the movie.The settings in the New South Wales in Australia were beautiful. There
were lot of scenes on and nearby the sea and beach. It was absolutely
breathtaking! Casting and the ensemble: Both Naomi Watts and Robin
Wright belong to my long-time favorites and the delivered exactly and
more what I expected from them. Bigger surprises were the young men
playing Ian and Tom - Xavier Samuel and James Frecheville. I truly
liked how they played their characters, they had quite a big tasks with
these roles and they were believable and natural as Ian and Tom. Very
suitable cast in my opinion.Generally: Adore is a controversial movie. I think there are people who
would love the imbroglio of relationships and friendships and then
there are the ones who would judge them. I belong to the first group. I
really enjoyed the drama!
