1
A milestone of Hollywood cinema goes Twilight

This is what happens when you remake a classic but can't decide if you
want to go for a fresh take of the story or if you want to imitate the
original. In this case, the director/writer decided that it'd tell
original story as well as copying some aspect of the original. Well, it
doesn't work.At the start, the film has an interesting original twist: Abbie
Cornish's character, Clara Murphy, is revealed to be the main love
interest for Joel Kinnaman's character, Alex Murphy. Unfortunately,
instead of exploring this new take of the story, the writers decided to
also include the robo character to create some kind of love triangle.This is pointless because unlike Peter Weller in the original, the
actor who plays RoboCop in this film is completely devoid of any
charisma. On top of this, he's also a VERY AWFUL actor. As a result,
the audience's sympathy immediately defaults back to Peter Weller's
original 80s character, which ultimately is pretty cool.And here's the problem: Robocop's character doesn't get shown that
often until the later half of the story. Instead, the story decides to
retell the whole encounter of Kinnaman and his bride from the original
film. So you are now forced to watch some cringe-worthy scenes of the
chemistry-less couple until the end reveals the real pairing of the
story.One would also think that since the original is pretty outdated in
terms of FX, this one will at least have some good one. Unfortunately
that's not the case either. Sure, it's slightly better but it's nothing
extraordinary. In fact, most scenes look bland and lack the biting
social satire/gut-wrenching action of the original.In summary: disappointing remake of a classic. The only redeeming
factor is the introduction of the new character played by Marianne
Jean-Baptiste. But since she's not even featured that often in the
story, the whole point of a retelling ended up being moot. For audience
who are tired of zombies and romances between vampires and werewolves,
RoboCop is for you.
