4
A Dull, Boring End To The Film Series

Wow. I think this has got to be one of the most disappointing ending
installments to a film series I've ever seen. The previous films build
this installment up so much that you actually expect it to be the
ultimate one of the 4-film series, with plenty of action, suspense, and
drama, and given the way the previous films unfolded that expectation
wouldn't be unwarranted. Unfortunately the exact opposite happened and
instead of getting a really exciting & thrilling end film, we get a
very slow, somewhat dull, melodramatic experience. I mean the first
moment of any thrills is about 75 minutes in and yet only lasts for 10
minutes, and the thing is, those 10 minutes are the most exciting the
film gets.I saw a couple of comments from people where they said this is "Battle
Royale II goes all Twilight" and "Battle Royale with cheese" in
describing this film and I think those are two perfect ways to sum this
installment up, especially with the romance line and the way Kayniss
went from Peeta to Gale then back again.After the completely over-hyped first installment, I found that the
series was actually getting better, which was unexpected due to how
lame the first film was. Catching Fire was MUCH better and blew the
first film out the water. The third installment dipped a wee bit but
was still decent enough and I thought it set everything up for a good
climactic end film. I thought wrong because instead of a great climax
it was more of a damp squib. Even the end scenes were about as exciting
as a wet weekend in Grimsby. The whole film was just one big
disappointment, especially given the build up from the previous three
films and the whole "revenge" theme that was portrayed.If you want thrills you won't get it here. If you want action you'll
need to look elsewhere. If you want a boring melodramatic Twilight type
of film with some cheesy romantic undertones then this is for you.This is definitely not the ending I was hoping for.
