4
Few laughs in this 'Animal House meets Lethal Weapon' misfire

Despite all the hype, I'm sad to report that 21 Jump Street, the new
action comedy based on the 1987 TV series, just isn't very funny. My
problem with it, is that Jonah Hill's 'Morton Schmidt' and Channing
Tatum's 'Greg Jenko' are so over the top as cops, that you cannot take
most of it very seriously at all.For example, when Jenko can't remember his Miranda warnings, or even
worse, when Jenko fires his gun in the park, after tackling a bad guy,
these type of things would probably lead to immediate dismissal from
the force in real life. And what about, after being expressly
prohibited from serving alcohol to minors, the bumbling duo go ahead
and serve up drinks at the 'undercover' party, anyway?; not to mention
the confiscated marijuana they take from the police property room
place, without authorization.The joke is supposed to be that in reality Schmidt and Jenko are really
glorified fraternity members, who just happen to have jobs as police
officers. Where I could definitely buy a bunch of 'loose cannon'
fraternity members in a film like 'Animal House', where one demented
group is pitted against a 'straight' one, it doesn't really work in the
police setting, since as stated above, improprieties are simply not
tolerated.While a good deal of the humor of '21 Jump Street' is juvenile in
nature, on one occasion it veers into the area of being quite vile.
This is near film's end when the bad guy is castrated and somehow,
we're ask to laugh when viewing the scene of his detached member. No
it's not funny and I hope word gets around that this is the kind of
gross 'humor', Hill and his fellow scenarists are trying to peddle.No need to recount all the details of the plot. Suffice it to say, that
Schmidt and Jenko are on a mission to take down assorted bad guys who
have been selling a new 'designer drug' in the school. It's your
typical buddy movie where Schmidt is the nerd with a brain who can help
the intellectually challenged Jenko, and Jenko is the jock with a
powerhouse punch who can bring the socially inept Schmidt, out of his
shell.Actually, it's the bad guys, who really keep the story moving along.
There's 'Eric', the eco-friendly big man on campus who moonlights as a
drug dealer, and his supplier, Mr. Walters, a physical education
teacher, whose goofy demeanor masks a huge anger management problem. To
top it off, an assorted bunch of nasties, consisting of bikers and gang
members, led by the menacing 'Domingo', lend an air of verisimilitude,
not found in the antics of the principals, Jenko and Schmidt.Occasionally, there are a few amusing bits in '21 Jump' including
trucks filled with gasoline that fail to explode as well as some funny
hallucinations which we get to see, when the protagonists are forced to
take drugs in order not to blow their cover. But on the whole, Jonah
Hill and co-writer Michael Bacall's frat-boy humor, lacks subtlety and
relies on low-level slapstick routines, to get by. At this point,
America is so desperate for something humorous in the movies these
days, that a mediocre exercise such as this, is hailed as a comic
masterpiece!
