1
An inferior end to a mediocre series

I was almost literally dragged by my ankles to this movie by some
friends of mine. In the end I decided to eventually give in and pay a
ticket price of £5.70. £5.70? for a twilight ticket. OK I'm not gonna
get into that but I was expecting good things. So the good points first: Taylor Lautner puts in a decent effort.
Michael Sheen makes for a good villain. Taylor Lautner is not what I would call one of the current rising
stars. He just doesn't have the talent but...having said that he was
the only good guy in the movie who was believable. Michael Sheen is
very worthy as a good villain. He has an air of insanity yet I can't
put any fault on his performance. For example I can't say that it was
Over the top or just a screaming role (In which case Shia LaBeouf
should have been cast for that).Now the negative points: Kristen Stewart can't act for her life, Dakota
Fanning was so unconvincing. Rest of the cast was mediocre, CGI and
special effects are underwhelming and an absolutely insulting ending.Kristen Stewart spends the vast majority of the film pulling a stupid
childish pout and frown which is not what you want to see from a hit
film's protagonist. All of her lines are cringe worthy and poorly
written. Her career is failing and her film selection (Snow White and
the Huntsman? what the hell was that?) isn't helping her. Dakota
Fanning has always annoyed me as an actress. I have nothing against her
personally but her Shia La Beouf type role in War of the Worlds just
killed it. However Coraline was a revelation on her part and renewed my
faith. However she has no stage presence so to speak. Her one line in
the film was like something from a family guy cut scene. The rest of
the crew were poor and why the hell was baby Renesmee (horrible name) a
CGI baby? It just made this film look even more ridiculous.The whole vampire thing just got ridiculous and the ending? Oh my god,
the ending....I will not spoil anything but it was so poor. To finish I
will never watch this again. Ever. Fans will probably love it because
it's the end and they naturally will defend from criticism with their
lives. Anyone else will stop watching after about 10 minutes and I
don't blame them. Twilight...the hit series...was an absolute bloody
waste of time and money.
