6
I can't take it anymore

I cannot take it anymore. No, I'm not referring to Michael Bay. I have
no issues with him. He was nothing but a co-producer. What I can't take
is how lovers of this movie can't see what was wrong with it. I'm a
long time turtles fan. Born in the 80s, grew up on the TV show, seen
all movies and series, and had many action-figures. This movie was
disappointing. I'm not saying it's terrible and normally I don't really
agree with critics, but this time, I'm inclined to. It simply wasn't
that great. Here are the reasons why: 1 - This is the biggest mistake of the movie of which I still can't
understand how they didn't realize it. The back-story/history between
Yamato Yoshi and Shredder. There was no mention of Yoshi. Splinter was
nothing but a NYC rat, experimented on with the 4 turtles. They escaped
a fire and found themselves in the sewer. Why does Splinter have a
Japanese style moustache and know everything about the shredder? Sacks
mentioned a bit about Shredders rival clan back in Japan never went
into details nor gave any indication that the rat was there or would've
known anything about it. This rivalry is one of the main plot points in
the history of TMNT and they took it out.2 - The Ninja turtles are the main characters in TMNT, not Megan Fox.
She had way more face time than any of the turtles. I can't even think
if Leo of Donnie had more than 10 lines.3 - Yes 3D is neat, but it's been years since we've developed it.
Watching the massive overuse of close-ups and slow motion 3D was almost
as painful as the slow motion action scenes in the last resident evil
movies. I read one critic review mention around 800 close-up shots of
Megan fox's lips. He could be right.4 - The plot was completely generic and unoriginal. Evil man wants to
release Bio chemical weapon so he can be the hero by selling the cure,
making billions of dollars. Yeah, that's never been done before.5 - Mutagen is the cure for everything? Let's pretend I buy that. Why
does Donnie require eye glasses? Along with Donnie's glasses, a list of
other things that made little sense. Splinter teaching himself Ninjutsu
from some dirty book he finds in the sewer, somehow becomes some ninja
master capable of fighting the Shredder, because remember, he's not
Yamato Yoshi like he's supposed to be, nor did he have him train him as
a pet rat, like the old 1990 movie did. The amount of times Shredder
threatens to kill them, the amount of chances he had, yet he does not.
Shooting blades from his X-men style silver samurai armour(that fly
back and reattach by the way) while fighting splinter. Then just
punch-stabs him once and tosses him down. Later fighting Raf,
threatening to kill him. Just cracks his shell and walks away. The
ridiculous fight scene, consisting of a semi being drive down an
extremely steep, snowy mountain side. Not once coming close to losing
its balance or crashing. With the turtles sliding down the mountain on
their shells, keeping up with the speeding vehicles and staying ahead
of the avalanche they cause. April trying to convince her boss of these
human-sized ninja turtle teenagers. She actually has a decent
photograph but doesn't show her and gets fired. Tracking Aprils GPS
deep into the sewer. Normally many cell phones lose service just by
being in a basement, let alone 50 feet below the surface. Wireless
signals don't go through solid objects so well, especially the ground
and dozens of feet of concrete. The ninja turtles are invincible now
too. Bullets don't even penetrate.6 - The sexual objectification of Megan Fox. The many close ups,
although nice to some, not really ideal for a PG13 audience.7 - The time-line. The movie was rushed, short intro, abrupt ending,
with the simple and generic plot.8 - Choice of actors. Arnett was the best choice for his role compared
to others. He gave the little bit of comic-relief that was believable
of an April O'Neil camera man. The turtles voices were okay, although I
don't know how they came up with Knoxville as Leo. Megan Fox, I gave
the benefit of the doubt, but didn't seem like an April to me. I found
out that Anna Kendrick and Jane Levy had tried out for the role. Either
one would've been a better choice.9 - My last point is Hollywood in general. They seem more concerned
about finding ways to maximize profit as opposed actually making really
decent or epic movies. It just seems like they chose to do TMNT knowing
how popular it already was anyways, then not really care how good of a
job they did. In the end, it will likely make half a billion over a
year anyways. Many movies lately are nothing but big names, product
placement, and the mention of famous producers/directors. My dislike of
this movie had nothing to do with BAY as the lovers of the movie seem
to think. There's 5 other producers and 4 executive producers. People
should realize that someone can like/ dislike movies for simply being
what they are and have nothing to do with who's in it or who made it. I
gave a 6 because it's still slightly entertaining but I couldn't bring
myself to giving it a 7. That would require at least a good solid movie
with nowhere near as many mistakes.
