4
Hey Morpheus, If I take both the red pill and the blue pill will I get my 127 minutes back?

I would have thought that after the 15+ years since The Matrix that
consumers would be less and less dazzled by visual effects in film, but
apparently I was the only one to take the red pill and see beyond the
illusion of this movie. Sure you'll get otherworldly visuals and some
pretty neat future-tech in Jupiter Ascending but that's where the
takeaway stops. The story is a classic one where a seemingly insignificant individual,
in this case Jupiter Jones (Kunis), is suddenly thrust into a much
larger and complicated universe than her day-to-day as a maid. As fate
would have it, she happens to be the reincarnation of the matriarch of
an extremely powerful dynasty that controls a vast industrial empire in
the galaxy. The oldest heir to the mother's inheritance is none other
than Oscar-nominee Eddie Redmayne, who for whatever reason has
difficulty speaking and doesn't want Jupiter to claim what is
rightfully hers. I'll give the Wachowskis that they they've created an incredibly
elaborate alternate universe that is equally rich in scope and
potential, but they fail to generate the least bit of depth to their
characters. Every person you meet is a one-dimensional caricature you'd
find in some other sci-fi story.Honestly the scope is too ambitious to warrant any initial investment
in Jupiter or any of the other supporting actors like Channing Tatum
and Sean Bean. It's literally just 2 hours of zero-tension action
sequences and clichéd dialogue that lead to a resolution that the
audience couldn't care less about. Sure the tech is pretty cool and I was pleasantly surprised by the
design of the ships and planetary locales, but the novelty of seeing
Channing Tatum ice-skate around the air fighting aliens that pose
little threat wears off after the first scene. It's like watching the
Jedi take on the droids in the Star Wars Prequels. Why even bother
putting them in the way if they don't pose the slightest inconvenience
to our protagonists?I can appreciate science fantasy that dazzles and delights in an
original universe, but eventually the tunnel-vision wears off and you
realize that there is very little to keep you invested in the story.
The planet Jupiter might actually be the most ironic and appropriate
metaphor for this movie since - sure it's pretty to look - but then you
realize you're just looking a big ball of the two most common gasses in
the universe. Read the expanded version and other reviews on the Drive-In Zeppelin
website
