8
Police Point of View

End of Watch seems to be another film that uses the found-footage
style, but once again it's not a successful try. However, it still gets
what it wants by being a true to life buddy cop film with a ridiculous
amount of intensity. End of Watch looks pretty simple as a crime
thriller, but everything is actually brilliant. The crimes are grim and
the action is a load of thrills. But what really makes this film so
appealing is the chemistry between Jake Gyllenhaal and Michael Peña.
Their bromantic moments keeps the entire film so charming. The rest of
End of Watch is engaging and interestingly gripping.The story is about the lives of the lead pair. As these police officers
patrol around the streets, they spend their time talking and joking
around until they see something going on. Jake Gyllenhaal and Michael
Peña brings it to life. Their chemistry is the magic of this film. When
it gets serious it becomes really intense, makes you wish both of them
are safe on their dangerous jobs. The common elements of cop movies are
explosions and stylish gunfights, but this film is all about tension
and momentum.The found-footage style is as messy as what the recent found-footage
film, Chronicle, did. Which falls into being unnecessary. It sometimes
gets shots that aren't filmed on any hand-held cameras. The camera-work
is still well shot and serves a different experience, but it could have
been something like what action directors, Mark Neveldine and Brian
Taylor(strangely has the same name of the main character), do. Shaking
the camera ridiculously without calling it a found-footage film. If you
ignore the style, it would be cool. The quality of the film is being
realistic and there it succeeds. They left the impossibly cool police
movie stuff behind and instead make them simply scrutinize, arrest, and
watch the streets.End of Watch doesn't have much of a concept but to depict the credible
lives of these hero cops. While the lead stars shine on their beautiful
down-to-earth bromance, there's a grim reality about to affect their
lives thus makes this an indeed so compelling film. Still, it could
have been a Crank like film than a found-footage. The crazy cam is a
great effect, but not the characters holding the camera. Aside from
that, it's a top notch thriller that is easy enough to enjoy. Worth a
ride and recommended.
