5
GRAVITY - In space, substance doesn't matter

The critics who drool over GRAVITY must be as oxygen-starved as Sandra
Bullock's character. Visually arresting, yes. But GRAVITY is a triumph
of style over substance, and fantasy over plausibility. (Many spoilers
ahead.) Leave aside for the moment the utter implausibility of the
chain reaction of satellite disasters. (Satellites orbit at different
altitudes. That's space 101.) In my former life as a journalist, I
wrote a long article on space junk. A collision with one piece of
flotsam would have plausibly sufficed. A fusillade of space junk is
overkill. And Ed Harris's alert about the first mishap was a clumsy
telegraph of the crisis to come. Would that the director had invested
one-tenth the attention he gave the pictures into the plot. Also ignore
Bullock's out-of-control Chinese capsule surviving re-entry into
Earth's atmosphere ... or landing within a dog-paddle to shore on a
planet that's 70% covered by water. Oh, and space capsules are DESIGNED
for water landings, which means they DON'T flood when the door opens.
Forget all that. Instead, focus on character, which is what movies are
all about -- or should be. The actors can't be faulted for the sins of
the writers: Clooney is written as a one-dimensional, wise-cracking
Danny Ocean. Bullock sounds like her character from SPEED, not a
brilliant Harvard Ph.D. In one of the hoariest moments of the film,
Bullock actually PAUSES in her tortoise-like race to safety to listen
to Clooney's pep talk (can't we drive a stake through that cliché?),
then gets a second wind -- while breathing Co2 -- and sprints the final
yards to safety (another cliché). Upon reaching the Russian capsule,
she wastes time stripping and napping -- for the sake of the director's
silly rebirth metaphor -- while Clooney waits to be rescued. Again, the
actors are doing the best they can with the material they have. But the
only Oscars this film deserves are for the visuals. Certainly not for
acting, writing, or music. (Composers: The single, sustained note that
slowly builds to a thunderous crescendo is a cliché. Oh, and you just
telegraphed the outcome.) Which brings us to dialogue. To quote one
screenwriter, "Why does every director assume he can write?" Anyone
who's been in a life-or-death moment knows that people just don't
engage in serial wise-cracking or kill time with long anecdotes. The
sheer silliness of some of the lines undermined the spectacle of the
images. As for Bullock's monologues (e.g., the baby broadcast, the ode
to Clooney) -- well, the writers wrote themselves into a corner there.
As a writer, I appreciate the challenge of putting words into her mouth
when she has no one to listen. What came out rang false.... Want a good
film about a disaster in space? Watch APOLLO 13. Enjoy -- or try to --
GRAVITY for the 3D spectacle it is. But don't let it go to your head.
