8
Chuck Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest

The old adage that "big things come in small packages" has definitely
proved to be true for the "Child's Play" films. Somehow, against all
odds, this little guy has legs, becoming the most enduring and
consistent horror movie franchise in recent memory, spanning and
surviving three decades, without retcons or reboots. A big part of that
success lies at the feet of writer turned writer- director, Don
Mancini, who has been at the helm since the beginning, ensuring
consistency throughout each installment. Also along for the ride since
the beginning is the indispensable Brad Dourif as killer turned
killer-doll, Chucky. Dourif's manic and often hilarious vocal
performance combined with Mancini's "anything goes" sensibility makes
each film a true pleasure to watch. All of that fan-pleasing,
funny-bone teasing goodness is back for the seventh film, "Cult of
Chucky."Picking up where 2013's "Curse of Chucky" left off, "Cult of Chucky"
finds Nica (Fiona Dourif) now committed to a mental institution. Nica
has been pummeled by electro-shock therapy into believing she killed
her whole family, so it's up to Chucky's original nemesis, Andy (played
by a now fully-grown Alex Vincent), to come to her rescue and put
childish things away, once and for all. Along the way, he has to
contend with Chucky's on-again/off-again lover, Tiffany (Jennifer
Tilly), who has now inhabited the body of Jennifer Tilly. Confused?
Well, watch the other movies. Though it's the second film in the series to be sent direct-to- video,
the quality has most certainly not dipped with "Cult of Chucky."
Mancini returns to the director's chair for the third time, and his
visual style is very much informed by his time spent working on NBC's
short-lived "Hannibal." Along for the ride is special effects guy Tony
Gardner, who turns in some of his most impressive work to date. The
film is riddled with practical effects that are not only convincing,
but inspiring. If a DTV sequel can have special effects that put
similar theatrical releases to shame, maybe there's hope for the future
of the genre after all. On the acting front, Fiona Dourif digs deeper
into her character and really seems to relish going slowly mad. The
elder Dourif, meanwhile, is as crazy and charming as ever as the voice
of everyone's killer doll. Vincent's return to the franchise is
definite cause for celebration. His performance is a little wooden, but
when you consider he gave up acting some 25 years ago, it's easy to cut
him some slack. His presence is enough, as far as this fan is
concerned. Speaking of presence, Jennifer Tilly is still an absolute
bombshell, and her character feels very lived-in and is now an
essential component of the franchise.The film has a few surprises you won't see coming, and you'll
definitely want to stay until the very end, friend. Like "Curse" before
it, "Cult of Chucky" plays the fan service game without insulting its
audience. There's plenty of fresh ideas stirred among the nostalgia,
and Mancini's mythology will probably require an extensive road map
going forward. The humor is good, the horror is well-done and the film
looks and sounds appropriately cold and crisp (shout out to composer
Joe Loduca, of "Evil Dead" fame). It's all in good, gory fun. Fans who
have made it this far will find this "Cult" worthy of worship.
