6
The Good, The Bad, & The Ugly

Well, let's start with... The Good:The visual effects are 2nd to none. Raimi and his team have given their
audience a bright and colorful world of wonder in a much more 'wowing'
Land of Oz than that of the original film, and possibly even one that's
more visually attractive than any other film to date. A very fun and
crafty Rachel Weisz takes the role of Evanora and grips the audience
with charm and viciousness in all the right doses. The supporting cast
also performs pretty well, sometimes capturing that original 'Wizard of
Oz' magic.The Bad: Going into this film with high expectations for the dialogue, & acting
is going to leave you very disappointed. Two of the most featured roles
of the film, Oz (played by James Franco) & Theodora, (played by Mila
Kunis) are surprisingly and inexcusably portrayed very poorly. Franco's
Oz is written to be about how you would expect him to be - complete
with charm, wit, & deceit. However, the depth that you would expect to
come with such an anticipated resurgence of a character is missing, &
you can tell that Franco is having trouble buying into the role
himself. The character quickly becomes stale at about 45 minutes in,
and doesn't ever fully recover. Kunis feels the same - bored & devoid
of passion for the lackluster lines given to her. Her character also
has an issue with development, and is rushed from high to low so
quickly that the audience doesn't have the opportunity to invest in
her. The performances aren't the worst thing you'll ever see, but the
lifeless script & awkward dialogue make it hard to stay focused. Even
with a great script though, I feel as though Franco & Kunis weren't the
best choices for their respective roles. The Ugly: The worst part of this movie is the story. It leaves you waiting for
some kind of clever & unexpected plot twist, a little divulgence of the
characters motivations, or even just some depth for the main focal
points of the story. It's also somewhat obnoxious that this film takes
elements of the original film that should have been left alone because
the original film portrays Dorothy's entire journey as a dream in the
end. (Such as transferring characters of "the real world" into
characters of The Land of Oz) Without saying too much, I can tell you
that this film is stuck somewhere between being a fun and family
friendly revitalization of the original story and being a serious and
intriguing fantasy film for a wide movie-going audience - and the
formula just doesn't work. Having said all of that, I do not regret having gone to see Oz: The
Great and Powerful, as the visuals do a great job of making up for
everything that didn't work. I will warn you though, that the films run
time of just over two hours can be difficult to sit through at times.
Don't be afraid to take a bathroom break when it gets dry, you probably
won't miss too much.
