7
a tense essay on moral boundaries

Conventional genre movies work their magic almost entirely through 

manipulating stereotypes. But many powerful movies work in reverse: 

they deconstruct stereotypes to challenge our boundary perceptions. 

Themes like feminism, racism and nationalism, are regularly pulled 

apart to see what makes them tick. In recent years, child sexual abuse 

has been in the spotlight and it is overwhelmingly treated as a moral 

absolute. However, the film Una (2016) challenges the norm by exploring 

ambivalences in a case of blatant abuse. In doing so, it places the 

audience squarely on the judge's bench.



Adapted from the acclaimed 2005 stage play Blackbird, this tense 

drama-thriller explores the moral ambiguities of a criminal act that 

occurred 15 years ago between 40-year old Ray (Ben Mendelsohn) and 

13-year old Una (Mara Rooney). The emotionally immature Ray was 

obsessed with the lonely and precocious Una over a three-month 

relationship before having 'consensual' sex with her. By chance, the 

incident was discovered and he spent four years in jail. Since then he 

changed his name and has tried to restore his life. Meanwhile Una's 

world spiralled into an emotional void. Now 28, she has tracked him 

down and unexpectedly confronts him at the factory where he works. 

Instead of attacking him for the abuse, she demands to know why he 

abandoned her after their one night together. They continue talking 

beyond the factory's closing time, then she tricks another employee to 

take her to Ray's home where his girlfriend is hosting a party. At this 

point, the intensity of the factory scenes becomes diluted and the 

sparring inconclusive.



This is an explosive mix of issues, personality and circumstance. The 

film consists mostly of their verbal sparring about the illegal 

'affair' with dialogue ranging from hysterical, passionate to icy cool 

within an industrial setting that is claustrophobic and alienating. It 

is beyond Ray's emotional capacity to understand what Una wants, while 

she vacillates between wanting to restore her juvenile obsession with 

him and wanting to see him wallow in guilt for his crime. Every time we 

feel contempt for him, we see a piece of the emotional puzzle 

indicating human weakness but not evil. Every time we admire Una's 

determination to hold Ray to account, we see a glimpse of her 

complicity and manipulation. Mara Rooney and Ben Mendelsohn fill their 

characters with confusion and remorse. At the same time, they depict 

genuine emotional connection with each other despite the legal, 

emotional and moral prohibitions that still frame their lives. Their 

performances are brilliant.



At one level, this film is about the horrendous impact on victims and 

the abrogation of responsibility that occurs in cases of child sexual 

abuse. At another, it pulls apart the stereotype of victim and abuser 

to shed light on how it can happen and its painful aftermath. Some 

audiences may be repulsed at the level of sympathy shown to the 

perpetrator and the implicit sharing of responsibility between a 

juvenile and an adult for what is entirely an adult crime. Others may 

be shaken by the idea that such crimes may have any moral ambiguity at 

all. In any case, this is brave and provocative cinema that cuts across 

the guilt versus innocence binary.
