9
carries a spirit of all-American-ism without being too preachy, keeping a wit about it and Tom Hanks

One of the surprising things about Bridge of Spies is not really that
Steven Spielberg directed this story, which tracks the trial and then
trade of a Russian spy in 1957 (an exchange for an American pilot, and
someone else who I'll get to shortly). It's the kind of material that
would attract Spielberg, especially with the hero of the story, Jim
Donovan (Tom Hanks), who comes into a situation he shouldn't be
involved with but not only can pull off talking and reasoning with
people and finding the better side of a situation or person's nature.
What's surprising in a way is the involvement of the Coen brothers with
the script.It's hard to say if Matt Charman was the primary writer (someone I'm
not familiar with, not least on the level of his co-writers) and if the
brothers came in on a polish. But watching the movie, it does make more
sense - certainly more than Unbroken, which barely has their touch -
since it carries a lot of dry wit in the exchanges between characters,
in particular the opposing attitudes of people in this 'period'
setting. Hanks' Donovan is a straight-shooting guy who believes in the
constitution of the United States and wants to do right, legally
speaking, by his client Rudolf (Mark Rylance in a fine, subtle
supporting role), and doesn't really care per-say what he's done or
didn't do. This doesn't fly well in a society that is overrun with
Red-Scare fever and end up doing the worst of things when in total fear
of things (i.e. the A-bomb, which gets a kind of cameo in the film in a
way that Spielberg I'm sure has a personal connection with, being a
child of the 50's, but I digress).The Coens I think brought a sense of realism to things, but also
stylization; the way characters talk at times there's a lot of things
where people try to figure the other person out, which is fascinating
to watch. When Donovan arrives at the first part of the mission he's
given in the second part of the film, to do this exchange of the
Russian for an American pilot caught by the enemy, he goes to the
Russians and doesn't talk to the lawyer (who he thought to talk to) but
some other official. Spielberg covers this expertly, going in on Hanks
and the other actor at just the right moments to emphasize things
getting tenser - another young American, a student caught up in the mix
of things (it IS East Berlin, after all) - but the script dictates a
lot of the momentum here. And at the same time the Coens aren't
necessarily making it 'Coens-y', in a manner of speaking; they serve
their filmmaker extremely well, giving a light air to a good number of
scenes in a way that keeps the tension and suspense in a good balance.In a way it's interesting to get this so soon after The Martian, also
in theaters: two films about perilous situations and men caught in a
struggle to survive, and two stories that benefit from some levity.
Between the two though, Bridge of Spies is the more serious affair, and
certainly Spielberg has a lot thematically on his plate. The story
takes place during the Cold War time, but it's really a war-war (so to
speak, sorry, couldn't find another way to put it), only with terse
words and missions via the CIA instead of men on a battlefield. At the
same time I feel like the message can, and probably will, resonate
today; Spielberg knows that we're in times where it can be dubious
whether people are put on trial and given proper legal counsel if
they're suspected 'others' or combatants, and if they get the counsel
who knows how the trial will go.Bridge of Spies may have Hanks being, shall we say, Jimmy Stewart-like
(I know other critics will or have), and is the guy the audience likes
- his endearing characteristic in the second half, of all things, is a
cold. But it's because Spielberg embraces this, as does Hanks in
playing him, that he's a man who will stop at nothing to get done what
needs to be done for a man's freedom and security (or how he sees it,
so down the line, despite whatever happens in prison walls with glaring
lights and big questions about this or that for information). Perhaps
with a tougher kind of actor this wouldn't work, like I could never
picture, say, Bruce Willis in this role. Hanks comes in and is
unequivocal in his earnest desire for justice ("Everyone deserves a
defense, every life matters" echoes another Spielberg motto in
Schindler's List), and it's refreshing in a way to see this in a movie
right now.Two little issues: the film's ending is a little long, with a coda that
feels like it stretches just a little longer than it should, albeit for
a visual callback that does add a bittersweet tinge that is welcome and
interesting; and the lack of a John Williams score (the first for
Spielberg in 30 years) is startling. Thomas Newman isn't bad at his
work, but it's unremarkable, and doesn't give certain scenes that do
need a little extra punch or kick that 'Spielberg' type of music. It's
hard to describe it, but I feel it when I do, especially during the
climax.Aside from those small points, this is near-classic work by this
director, with a star in top form who is wholly convincing. It's also a
wholesome movie in that old-time Hollywood sense, but not in a way that
should date it any time soon; it takes a stand for what should be held
accountable for those accused, and that, really, having a good
insurance policy is maybe the only policy that's logical.
