6
5 risky prom dates

Greetings again from the darkness. For those high school Literature
teachers struggling to get their students to embrace the classics from
writers like Jane Austen, this movie won't help much. However, chances
are good that those same students will enjoy this blending of 19th
century British class warfare with "The Walking Dead" – likely one of
their favorite shows. The zombie apocalypse has landed in the middle of
Austen's prim and proper story, including the repressed attraction
between Elizabeth Bennett and Mr. Darcy.Anyone expecting the serious undertones of Ms. Austen's1813 novel will
be disappointed … but the title should have provided a pretty solid
hint. While her characters and general story line act as a structure
here, it's really based on Seth Grahame-Smith's YA hit novel …
delivering zombie battles and often zany humor. Burr Steers (Igby Goes
Down) directs his own adapted screenplay and seems to really be having
a great time – right along with his talented cast. The sets, costumes,
dialogue and fight scenes work together to create an unusual movie
experience that will generate plenty of laughs while not dwelling on
the zombies or violence (it is PG-13). Expect most critics to destroy
this one because it's made simply for fun, not for art.Of course, any Pride and Prejudice spin-off (even one with zombies)
must pay particular attention to Elizabeth Bennett and Mr. Darcy. It
turns out that Elizabeth and her four sisters are highly trained
warriors raised to survive against the undead. It's even clearer for
Mr. Darcy as he is billed as a zombie hunter and protector of Mr.
Bingley, the rich bachelor hooked on Jane Bennett. Things get muddled
by the devious Mr. Wickham, a focused Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and
especially the flamboyant fop Parson Collins. The interactions between
these characters bounce between loyalty, romantic attraction, emotional
turmoil and hand-to-hand combat … with enough comedic elements that
most viewers will find plenty of opportunities to laugh.The talented cast is all in. They play it mostly straight (with one
major exception) to achieve the balance between somber and silly. Lily
James ("Downton Abbey") and Sam Riley (On the Road, 2012) are both fun
to watch as Elizabeth and Darcy. They are the film's best fighters …
both with swords and words. Bella Heathcoate (Dark Shadows, 2012) is
"the pretty one" Jane, who is wooed by Douglas Booth (Noah, 2014) as
Mr. Bingley. Lena Headey ("Game of Thrones") makes an impression in her
limited screen time as an eye-patched Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and
Jack Huston ("Boardwalk Empire") is well cast as Wickham. Screen
veterans Charles Dance and Sally Phillips take on the role of parents
to the five Bennett daughters, but it's Matt Smith ("Dr Who"), who
turns the film on its ear with his unconventional twist on the oddball
Parson Collins, who pretty much steals each of his scenes. He had those
in the theatre laughing out loud more than a few times.Pity is the word that comes to mind for any young man who takes these
Bennett girls to the prom … or more likely to one of the societal
balls. The weapons hidden under their formal gowns offer fair warning
to zombies and handsy suitors alike. It's this element of strong women
(physically and emotionally) that might even allow Ms. Austen to
appreciate what's happened to her characters … were she alive to see
it.Even though the film offers plenty of fun with laughs and action and
romance, let's hope it doesn't kick off a new zombie-adaptation trend.
Here are a few titles that we hope never see the big screen: Sense and
Sensibilities and Zombies, War and Peace and Zombies, Crime and
Punishment and Zombies, The Old Zombie and the Sea, Wuthering Zombies,
Romeo and Juliet and Zombies, and Alice's Adventure in Zombieland.
