6
Ticks every generic box

I'm writing this review straight after seeing 'The Purge 2: Anarchy'
simply because I'm guessing I probably won't remember it in a couple of
days time (and, if I ever completely forget, at least I can read my own
review to remind myself that I probably don't need to watch it a second
time). Okay, so that may sound like I hated it. I didn't. Then again, I
can't really think of anything positive to say about it either. It's
one of those films that left me with no real lasting impressions, good
or bad.If you watched the first 'Purge' film, you'll know that crime has
pretty much been eradicated in the America of the near future. How has
this been achieved you may ask? By allowing all citizens to (legally)
commit any form of crime they like for a short period of time (I think
it's just the night, but it might have been as long as twenty-four
hours). During this time you're free to murder, steal and assault
anyone you please and the police and other emergency services are 'off
duty' and therefore won't stand in your way. The reason behind this is
– apparently – to allow man's primitive urges to be released, hence
stopping them from doing it for the rest of the year. And, if you can
try not to think too deeply about that (as you'll probably come up with
plenty of plot holes in that kind of society) you'll probably at least
be able to sit through the film.The only problem is... find yourself out on the streets during this
time and you're really in trouble. And that's exactly what happens to
our five unwitting heroes. So, a small group of people must survive the
night against gangs of normally sane and rational people, all hell-bent
on murdering for the sake of it.Unfortunately, I didn't really think much in the way of the characters.
They're all pretty generic. They run, they scream. Sometimes they fight
back and there are a few reasonably well-shot shoot outs and chases.
That's about it really.It's an action movie. It has chases in. It tries to make itself stand
out with various social commentary on mankind's primitive desires and
so forth, but, ultimately, if you've seen any film that's centred
around people trying to survive something (anything!) then you've kind
of seen this before. It's not so bad. It's not horrible. Like I said, I
can't really think of anything really negative to say about it, other
than there's just nothing new here that warrants a second viewing.
