10
Violent, original, gripping, hilarious!

Seven Psychopaths is the best film to come out thus far this fall.
Written and directed by Martin McDonagh (In Bruges), this movie is a
one-two knock out with entertainment around every corner. The movie
stars Colin Farrell, Sam Rockwell, Christopher Walken, and Woody
Harrelson. Colin Farrell plays a writer struggling with a screen play
called "Seven Psychopaths." His friend (Rockwell) is desperate to help
write the screenplay. In the midst of all of this however, Rockwell
also has a business on the side with Christopher Walken where they
steal dogs, return them, and collect the reward money. Unfortunately,
Rockwell and Walken make the mistake of stealing Woody Harrelson's dog;
a psychopath who will stop at nothing to get his Shiatsu back.This script for this film is one of the most original I've ever seen.
There are a lot of twists in this movie plot-wise and genre-wise making
it a fantastic, unpredictable adventure. Many would think that a movie
that jumps around through different genres would be a bad thing, but
this movie is so fluid and every plot point connects so well, that you
aren't bothered in the slightest about deciding what the genre is of
this film. A film with the title Seven Psychopaths promises intense
violence and you will get that, but not just that. This is not a
mindless movie that uses just blood as entertainment. This is a smart
movie that has plot and meaning. Yes, it's violent but there is also
drama and a surprising amount of comedy. This is without a doubt, the
funniest movie I have seen this year. The dialog in this film is
perfect. All of the characters have a certain wit to them, delivering
lines that are beyond hilarious.The acting is superb. Christopher Walken is the best he's been in
years. This could very well be one of my favorite performances from
him. I liked Woody Harrelson in this movie more than I liked him in
Zombie Land. I applaud Sam Rockwell for being in this movie. He is just
so funny in this role and plays it perfectly. There couldn't have been
a better cast for this film. Everyone was flawless.If you enjoy creative writing, talented acting, and movies that are
all-around completely original, then I encourage you to see this movie.
Martin McDonagh has outdone himself and made an incredible movie. Seven
Psychopaths is a must see. A+
