2
What's with these ratings? This is an exasperatingly bad movie

I don't get the ratings here. This is a cut and dry poorly made movie
and fans of the DC universe deserve better. I don't normally post my
reviews here. But I have to share my take on this movie because it just
wasn't good. I didn't even have to go into spoilers to show how
terrible it is. Movie goers shouldn't mindlessly consume these films.
Christopher Nolan set a high bar, but producers and studios need to
step messing with auteurs and maybe we can get a quality DC movie:There is nothing in Suicide Squad that shows any hope that an auteur
filmmaker can do anything distinctive with the current cash cow of the
Hollywood machine: the super hero movie. What Christopher Nolan once
made his own has devolved into a predictable pastiche whose charms
should be wearing thin on audiences. It doesn't help that the movie is
also an example of how bad one of these films can be when it becomes
watered down and designed to refrain from shaking up anything in the
so-called DC Universe. Suicide Squad, a PG-13 film, was supposed to be
DC's entry to rival Marvel's R-rated Deadpool. Even though Deadpool had
its own problems as a self-aware action movie, it still had focus and a
bravado that is nowhere to be found in Suicide Squad.Suicide Squad follows a group of villains with super powers released
from prison as part of a government plan to protect the world from
terrorists or whatever sign-of-the-times fear currently plaguing
society (Zika?). Starring Will Smith as the hit man Deadshot and Margot
Robbie as the Joker's manic girlfriend Harley Quinn, alongside several
other less familiar DC baddies, these guys are supposed to be complex
people who have long fallen from grace and are supposed to rise above
to find their humanity and gain the audience's sympathy. But
writer-director David Ayer tries so hard to take a safe route, you can
see the gears trying to manipulate audience emotion, revealing the
inherit problems of these comic book adaptations straining to catch up
with decades of printed storytelling.You can't totally blame Ayer, who last gave moviegoers Fury, an
incredibly strong and startling war movie featuring a better fleshed
out motley crew of characters. The preciousness Hollywood has for its
ongoing world building of interconnected comic book films creates such
tight restrictions on storytelling that anything that might upset that
world has no room to prosper. At one point, toward the end of Suicide
Squad, one character asks another, "Shouldn't you be dead?" Of course
not, this is the DC universe, and it's gotta be milked. That means no
major players should be written off in one movie.The result of these storytelling restraints is a soulless kind of
filmmaking hampered by pussyfooting. It's like a syrupy glaze that
drowns out any possibility to shine above what has become a predictable
pattern of storytelling. Characters dole out uninspired lines that play
superficially to feelings, like, "Dad, I know you do bad things, but I
still love you." Then there are the clichés, like "fight fire with
fire." Sometimes the script inadvertently deflates the tension by
spelling things out. Someone over a radio says, "Use extreme caution,"
and someone in the action responds, "I don't like this." But in case
you miss that, someone else says, "I don't like it either." A kid
playing with his action figures can come up with better chatter to
establish tension....
