3
Kitai Litter

This film is not recommended.



Father doesn't always know best, the latest result being After Earth, a 

vanity project that Will Smith has concocted for his son, Jaden. This 

wobbly sci-fi tale of survival will certainly test both Mr. and Mr. 

Smith's star power. Director M. Night Shyamalan, the man who 

continually keeps falling from grace, one film after the next, is still 

tumbling further from his talented beginnings, although here the 

director crashes and burns. 



This is not to say that After Earth is hopelessly clichéd, it's just 

hopeless. Shymalan's well- made film has some striking imagery, mostly 

of panoramic vistas, but his ill-conceived screenplay (co-written with 

Gary Whitta) keeps this exercise in filmmaking rather earthbound. 

Adding to that, his main star and one of the film's producers, Papa 

Smith, pushes nepotism to its limits with this unoriginal dreck. (He is 

also given story credit for this silliness.) It's not just that this 

film has no Will power, it just has too much of it, both on screen and 

off.



Will Smith plays the fearless Cypher Raige, a no-nonsense military 

commando sent on a mission with his newt of a son, Kitai, played by 

Jaden Smith. Cypher is disappointed with his son's lack of achievement 

as a cadet and their relationship is a bit strained, just like the 

acting. The Smiths obviously look the part and act the part with the 

same stilted delivery. Like father, like son. Unfortunately (for us), 

they crash land on the apocalyptic Planet Earth. Cypher is injured with 

two broken legs, but pain is not an option. However a better script 

would have helped matters. Kitai must now go into rescue mode, wearing 

his amazing technicolor space suit, fighting beasts and creatures along 

the way to becoming a man. 



On his journey of self-awareness, Kitai contends with imminent peril: 

giant baboons, poisonous leeches, carnivorous tigers, and such. He 

needs to deal with the fluctuating below-freezing temperatures and an 

active volcano too. Life is hard. Kitai even battles a monster called 

the Ursa, a predator that hunts by sensing fear. (If the creature could 

instead sense the smorgasbord of bad acting on its plate, the Ursa 

would never go hungry again.) The elder Smith underacts and speaks in 

annoying solemn platitudes while the younger Smith overacts in a 

squeaky nasal voice that only a teenager can tolerate. 



The art direction is mind-numbing. The futuristic sets are bargain 

basement knockoffs of Disney World's Tomorrowland, circa 1960...very 

unimaginative with an overabundance of Rubbermaid-influenced interiors 

and enough flowing linen sheets to make one think that Bed, Bath, and 

Beyond had given the filmmakers a cut-rate deal for some product 

endorsements. All of the special effects are barely adequate and not 

the least bit compelling. After Earth has a strange lethargic 

listlessness throughout its short length. The film never builds any 

real tension or suspense. It's just so dull and unrelenting in its 

stupidity.



After Earth is the type of film that gives the sci-fi genre a bad name. 

Shyamalan and the Smiths might want to use other aliases after creating 

this debacle. Let's hope they refine their own survival skills when 

making another film. After Earth is strictly Ursa Minor. 



So dear moviegoers, heed the film's tag-line: "Danger is real, Fear is 

a choice". You have been sufficiently warned about the real dangers in 

viewing After Earth...Fear not, it's still in your control. GRADE: C-




