7
X-Men Apocalypse may not be the best X-Men movie made but it is still enjoyable if you're an X-Men fan!

I loved all the X-Men movies, including X-Men Origins: Wolverine. I was
so hyped when I heard they were creating an X-Men movie with Apocalypse
in it. I have always loved superhero movies about the end of days. I
will say specific parts that I loved and thought about this film and
how I would recommend it.How good is this movie? It may not top the previous X-Men movies but
that doesn't mean the movie is terrible. It is all based on opinion.
Don't be scared to see the movie all because critics are making this
movie look bad, go see it for yourself for your own opinion. You decide
whether the movie is good or not. In my opinion, it is actually good.
Not great, but good.Are the younger versions of the X-Men in this film? Yes. We have a
younger version of Cyclops, Jean, Nightcrawler and Storm. We also have
many amazing recurring members from the previous movies such as the
young Professor X who was amazing, a slight older Magneto, Mystique who
is also a little older and Beast who is still young as ever. And yes,
Quicksilver returns and tops his amazing scene from X-Men: Days of
Future's Past. How is Apocalypse the character? Honestly, I feel that Apocalypse was a
little weaker than his comic version. If he was CGI like Thanos from
Guardians of the Galaxy, he would've looked more threatening and
tyrannical. I could basically compare this Apocalypse to a wimp who
cosplays as Apocalypse with really good make up. His role is almost
similar to Ultron.Is Wolverine in this? Yes! He may have a small cameo but it is a damn
excellent cameo! When Wolverine enters the screen, the film basically
transforms into an R-Rated action scene. Now that is who Wolverine is.
It is also based on the real weapon x origin of Wolverine. He acts like
a wild animal and slashes anyone who gets in his way and even this guy
who begged Wolverine for mercy got his face ripped off! How dark is this film? It is actually pretty dark. There is a lot of
death and depressing moments you will feel. We also get more connected
with Magneto and why he hates humanity so much. It almost felt as he
was the main antagonist in this film. We see his past and his present
and why he turned into a dark and yet powerful supervillain. Also, the
way Apocalypse murders people is pretty brutal and frightening.Would you recommend it? Of course! Like I said, it may not top the
previous X-Men films but that doesn't mean it is terrible. If you love
X-Men, as well as apocalyptic superhero movies, then this is the film
for you. Go see it!
