9
Wolf of Wall Street review

If you've seen The Goodfellas or Casino, then you'll know the story of
The Wolf of Wall Street. This is another tale of a criminal whose
ambitions sweep him away into a debauched world of dirty money,
out-of-control substance abuse, endless lies, a troubled family life,
and a downward spiral of corruption that inevitably leads to his own
undoing. Only thing is, this is less about the gangsters and mafia, and
more about white-collar crime. The guys wear suits, work in proper
offices, and everything they do is just business; funnily enough, this
whole movie still plays out like a kind of gangster film.Based on the memoirs of Jordan Belfort - the real-life stock broker who
made millions by selling shoddy stocks to average joes - the film
showcases one seriously messed-up slimeball of a man. If his scheme
sounds familiar, it's because it's been the inspiration behind the 2000
film Boiler Room, and this film covers much of the same concepts,
albeit with better structure. The film maintains a close and intimate
focus on the man as he rises to power, suckers thousands into his
schemes, and then lives a life of extreme excess. And it is extreme:
the whole film becomes laden with drugs, sex, superficial luxuries,
material things, and characters who want nothing more than to take and
consume everything. The sheer corruption becomes palpable on-screen,
and I couldn't help but to shake my head at numerous scenes when I saw
just how far these wolfish characters have gone in their unrestrained
partying and debauchery. I have no clue as to how closely this film
adapts the real-life events, but at times it's almost hard to believe
that things could have gone this far. And yet, the excesses serve to
underscore key themes and criticisms on the American dream; the pursuit
of money and success, through any means, remains the main drive of the
characters and the movie, and it leads to a fairly hard-hitting
downfall.This film features good-looking photography and editing. Acting is
great: Leonardo DiCaprio is practically perfect as the titular
character, and the rest of the cast pulls their weight really well
(including Jonah Hill, who seems to fit into his character's archetype
very comfortably). Writing is really sharp and good; the film is full
of great lines and great speeches. There are some great-looking sets,
props, and costumes on display in this film. Music has a varied mix of
songs, and they're all used really well for their intended effect.The Wolf of Wall Street is every bit as good as Martin Scorsese's
previous work with The Goodfellas and Casino. All these films work with
similar plots and themes, but TWOWS is like a gangster film masked by
the thin veil of upper-class corporate swindling. It is a film that
candidly shows the crimes and excesses in full, before proving that,
even for the super-rich, crime still doesn't pay.Recommended! 4.5/5 (Entertainment: Good | Story: Very Good | Film:
Perfect)
