3
Terrorists of green

When you go to the cinema to see an action movie, usually you do not
expect something really engaging. Most of such productions do not
appear as very original nor extraordinary. Although, from time to time,
we can also find some surprising scores, wchich rebuild our ruined fate
in greedy Hollywood producers. They go down into our memory. Many
times, we want to re-watch them again, again and again one more time.
One of such movies is Kathryn Bigelow's „Point Break" from 1999.
Unfortunately, same words can't be said about the Core's Newest „Point Break" by Ericson Core is such a schematic and
predictable, as every movie created only for visual effects, wchich
have been so important for screenwriters. However, the plot seems to be
only a minor supplement. Who cares, right? So, what do we get here? A
threadbare story, wchich tries to stole as much as it's possible from
the original. Young FBI agent, with embarrassing past, must infiltrate
the mysterious organization suspected of many crimes, committed with
the help of their amazing sport skills. Do you fill familiar with this
description? By replacing some words, you could easily come with a
conclusion that many action movies are the same, for example „The Fast
and the Furious" and also Bigelow's „Point Break". Thanks to the
forceful action sequence pictures and technics how they were taken, we
may partly forget about mediocre plot. It looks like, Core hasn't known
about that. And he probably still doesn't. Because of that, his „Point
Break" is more condensed around crass plot, rather than around extreme
sports.Such things like crazy and dangerous stunts on surfboards and
snowboards, motocross rides and jumps from planes have been reduced to
minimum. These are a few scenes, wchich have turned out really all
right. It shouldn't be a big surprise, because Core was a director of
photography at such productions as „The Fast and the Furious" and
2003's „Daredevil", what gave him a necessary experience in this field.
Although, it doesn't mean, that he should have neglected all the other
features of the movie like good plot or characters. All of these
features are only the caricatures of their archetypes from 1999,
without any natures, starred by the stiff actors. They look more like
the sect of insane ecologists, rather than a division of athletes.New version of „Point Break" ignores every kind of basic elements of
good movie: well-written plot, interesting characters and most of all a
dynamic action. It's one of the worst kind of productions, wchich
creators hopped that, a few good action scenes would build up the whole
film. Unfortunately, they were mistaken. It doesn't work like this.
