1
A Nice Idea that Failed

Big fail. A dystopia is where the author takes what we value today and
projects it into the future... as a nightmare. That is, what we "like"
becomes a nightmare. Spike Jonze wants something like that, but fails,
since he probably doesn't know what dystopia is. Like many feminists,
male and female (think Margaret Atwood), Jonze thinks he can take what
he *hates* about his culture into the future and project that; that's
neither utopia nor dystopia, it's just a rant. And no, I'm not talking
about artificial intelligence, which is NOT what this film is about.
I'm talking about how men and women actually think about each other.The politics are crude. Jonze wants us to believe that a utopian Los
Angeles will feature games that give housewives "mommie points," the
way they might have in the 1950s. So, like, given the current evolution
of women, there's a future for "mommie points," right? Similarly, the
males in this film are caricatures, and mostly from the past. The
"masculine" friend of the hero treats his wife condescendingly... as he
might have in 1915. The other 'normal' male is a one-dimensional jerk.
The women natter like girls from the 1960s -- the counter-culture -- or
first-wave Feminism, 1978.You could say that, having given the characters no navel, Jonze does
nothing but observe his own. The result is a film so dazzled by its
politics, and so ignorant of life, that it's sterile. There is no human
growth here, just social theory, aphorisms about feelings, and received
wisdoms. This is not a film, it's a doodle about two improbable mates. The male
hero's only virtue is that he's "half-woman," as the film takes great
pains to say. For the rest of it, the man mutters aloud, and follows a
hollow character line that turns him into cardboard.There was a way to
make Jonze's central plot device work as a piece of art. I have some
ideas on that. However, I'm not going to say it here: it would
encourage Jonze to re-do this massive bore.
