10
Thrilling, Touching and Surreal Exploration of the Heart; Both Human and Monster

To be seen and desired for who we truly are; it is the passionate wish
of many. For Elisa, an unassuming and kind-hearted maid in a 1960s era
government lab, this wish is granted in an unusual way. Virtually
invisible and isolated, yet content in her little bubble, Elisa is
lured from this comfort zone as she witnesses the arrival of a strange,
monstrous sea creature in the lab. Despite warnings to keep her
distance, Elisa sympathizes with the suffering creature. It is in
chains and tortured by Strickland, a sadistic and violent government
agent. This wild creature is impulsive. It responds to aggression with
the same, and to kindness with kindness. As the cruelty of Strickland
escalates, Elisa decides she must act to save the creature. Friendly
and opposing forces emerge from unlikely places to help or hinder her.
Love and light hinge on the erratic hearts of monsters and humans
alike.This thrilling, touching and surreal film explores the many forms and
aspects of monsters. The worst monster of them all is the human heart,
and yet it is also the most kind and beautiful. The film offers apt
encouragement to speak up and act when others are in trouble and in
pain. In this world of rising fascists who peddle hatred and opposition
to science, art, sympathy and basically to all humanity, such
encouragement is sorely needed.With expressive eyes and strong empathy, Sally Hawkins is amazing and
mesmerizing in her portrayal of Elisa. Michael Shannon is perfectly
cast as the crude, cruel, sarcastic and controlling Strickland. In
Strickland's sinful, selfish and negative world, the monster is better
off dead. The supporting cast is wonderful. The film is full of depth
and splendor. The Southern United States is the setting, yet the film
was shot in Toronto. The theater that appears prominently on screen is
the very same theater (the Elgin) in which I saw the film at the
Toronto International Film Festival. I went into the theater with high
hopes and was not disappointed.
