1
Movie 43 is just awful and an absolute waste of time that makes one shameful of this movie's very existence.

I want to let each and everyone reading this review know that I created
this IMDb account for the sole purpose of writing a review for this
very movie, Movie43. First, I would like to start by mentioning how the
movie trailer is very misleading and provides people with false hope
and expectations. From public defecation, to having one's testicles on
one's neck, and even incestuous relationships are only a few of the
many examples of the dark and rather disgusting sense of humor that
along with the imagery of the movie create a rather repellent and false
portrayal of sex and other universal themes. Additionally, Movie 43
consists of several unrelated scenes that do nothing in terms of both
the plot and characters' development of the movie. This movie is so bad
that it has the ability to infect one's nerve cells with both aids and
cancer, creating a new type of nerve cells that reproduce at an
exponential rate and possess the ability of causing one's IQ level to
drop dramatically. If you don't want to waste your precious time and
intelligence, then listen to what I and many others have to say about
this movie and simply don't waste your time watching it. Every user
that claims that this movie is nothing else but absolute rubbish is
telling nothing else but the honest truth. There is this saying that
seems very appropriate given the main message that I am trying to
convey; "Curiosity killed the cat". This saying serves as a warning
declaiming to not let your curiosity get the best of you! A great
number of people, myself included have fallen prey into this very trap
and have made the very mistake of disregarding many of the wise reviews
proclaiming that this movies is complete balderdash as it lacks plot
development and many more elements crucial to a movie's reputation and
watch-ability. Just like Plato, a well known Greek Philosopher said: "A
wise person learns from his mistakes! A wiser one learns from others'
mistakes!" I hope this review came in handy and opened your eyes to the
harsh reality that is Movie 43. I wish each and every one of you the
best of luck!!! Trust me, you will need it!!! XD
