8
Rings True

So, why pick up a movie called "The Gambler" in Japanese. "Play the
Favorite" actually is a line in the movie, a sort of key to the story.
Answer: I like movies about games, I like "game theory" and hope for
something like A Beautiful Mind. Hearts in Atlanta, 21, Moneyball. In
fact, it was Joshua Jackson that pulled me. I went through "Fringe"
with him, wanted to see him in something else. I actually didn't
realize how high level the cast was! It kind of starts off like
"Showgirls." Naive girl rolls into town, um, doesn't get a gig as
cocktail waitress so, we aren't in the same story, and it isn't going
to be the same story.Why did I watch it again and again? When her father laughed because
Beth wants to leave Tallahasse for Los Vegas, and that scene worked for
me. I liked her dog. I was already with Rebecca Hall as Beth much more
deeply than I ever could with Vicky in "Vicky Cristina Barcelona". But
on the other hand, and to be fair, I did not watch that movie three
times in a row, hunting for it. What? The thing that makes it ring
true, that pulls me in. I've driven up to a place, looked at it,
decided it would do, and said, "I'll take it." Hit the pavement looking
for a job.Enter Dink and face it, I love Bruce, I've loved him a long time, since
"Moonlighting" and you've seen these kid actors, Harrison Ford, Michael
Keaton, John Travolta, bursting with sex-appeal and self-confidence,
and you've seen them getting older, and so here is Bruce being Dink,
and I'm already with Beth, so there is an interview and she tells him
everything, he tells her everything, he forgives her for being a kid,
and he hires her, she is stoked and the movie kept me until the end.
Catherine Zeta-Jones does a great job, Vince Vaughn makes his small but
central part work. It's a sort of sad note that Joshua's Jeremy was
just a bit too bland, but the core story of the two central people
becoming real friends, overcoming the possible delusions of sex and
infidelity worked. The chemistry of Bruce with Rebecca was spot on. I
believed it and felt like that is a love that can hold the world
together and a very good role for Rebecca.After I watched this movie again and again, I also understood more
about the world, the games, and the characters. It was taken from
Beth's true story. I should add that Catherine Zeta-Jones played her
role to perfection, if you understand that the story is a true story of
some real people, not a titillating fantasy.
