3
looks like science fiction, but isn't: simple-minded, heavy handed and dramatically silly

Like the extremely overrated District 9, Elysium's lone strength is its
convincing special effects and its weaknesses are in every other area.
Although there is nothing as terribly stupid as the District 9 "alien
blood that can bond with human DNA ... and also power spaceships,"
Elysium is heavy handed allegory, amped up drama and dramatically
ridiculous.Some of the ships and robots are great to look at---seeing Syd Mead's
name in the credits was not a big surprise.Since the days of Hitchcock people seemed to have forgotten that the
first and most important job of a director is not to come up with 'cool
visuals,' but direct actors. Ergo, the title, 'director.' So congrats to Blomkamp for showing me the first truly terrible Jodie
Foster performance. It's like he showed her a 1960s spider-man cartoon
and said, 'like this but bigger.' And a lot of her work was dubbed for
some reason, likely accent inconsistency (even though it's still
inconsistent in the end product). And i am a HUGE William Fichtner fan,
but this movie also showcases his career nadir. Sometimes he seems to
be imitating Data from Star Trek, other times, sort of German. And
Copley as the villain...well if there is a less menacing accent than
this, i haven't heard it. And he is of course, way, way over the top as
he was in District 9 (though he was decent in Europa Report). Damon is
the only performer whose work is credible, probably because he's a big
enough star to just say no if Blomkamp wants to turn him into a
screaming cartoon.In terms of story, don't expect any science or anything other than good
versus evil. Sadly, with rare exception, Hollywood science fiction
movies are really just noisy action movies these days, and as a huge
science fiction fan I know i'll rarely see any interesting scientific
elements in these (though the movies of Duncan Jones and Kosinski do
have some smart ideas and are the exceptions). So no, Elysium isn't
sci-fi, but just heavy handed action movie allegory, more or less the
same class warfare of District 9, so he's already retreading this
theme. Then there is the would-be action centerpiece exo-skeletal suit,
an idea that doesn't work at all, and isn't well sold visually. Really,
as designed, this thing wouldn't work without tearing off fingers and
smashing the limbs of its user, which is why most exo-skeletal designs
are also armor that could shield a water-based lifeform. In any case,
the actions scenes are so shaky and over cut, it's hard to see what's
happening regardless. But I never had even a moment of thinking the
thing actually functioned or would function.Blomkamp clearly has a political viewpoint---one that I have no issue
with at all, except that it makes his writing too pedantic and
monochromatic. A strong viewpoint does not make one a good writer.
Writing rich people are bad and poor people are good is not
dramatically compelling to watch, even if you actually believe things
are that simple. Look at the success George RR Martin is having with
complex characters...Blomkamp's writing seems like that of a child by
comparison. That Elysium is self-important and humorless, doesn't help.And if Blomkamp (who clearly should not write his own movies) really
understood science fiction the way actual science fiction writers
do---guys like Greg Egan, JMS, Ted Chiang, Arthur C. Clarke, Greg Bear,
M. John Harrison, Stephen Baxter, Larry Niven, etc.--- he would not
have a future world technology where humans can be rebuilt at an atomic
level in the same world as one in which robots fire guns and miss their
targets. (!!!) Robots hitting their targets when they fire is near
future and to some extent, current; rebuilding bodies at an atomic
level (in less than a minute) is very, very, very far future, if ever. But like most Hollywood junk---and the similarly stupid, crazily
overrated breakthrough success District 9--- Blomkamp is doing
something that looks like science fiction, but isn't.
