1
Blockbuster: Unimaginative, cheap, no fantasy, lacked vision

I loved all the previous star wars movies (yes, even the prequels). But this, this was just deeply disappointing. I could get past all the
cheap/easy typical Disney humour (which is actually enjoyable in
cartoons) but the plot of the movie, lack of character development, and
lack of star wars was just too much.The only thing making this movie resemble star wars were the old stars
from the original movie. it was pleasant to see Han Solo, but only as a
fan of the original film. Within itself, the whole Leia-Han Solo love
story was completely destroyed by this movie. Their relationship seemed
superficial. but it didn't really matter because there was just no time
for character development or illustration of the depth of their
relationship. The movie just needed to show more dull fight scenes,
entirely recycled across the original trilogy. The meaning and depth of the force was cheapened: apparently now a
storm trooper can not just use a light saber but also fight and win
with a Sith Lord (who at the beginning of the film was able to stop
bullets mid air, kill with the force, and read people's minds). The force doesn't awaken because we never see the force being
forgotten. Instead the new characters at one recognize Han Solo and
know everything there is to know about Skywalker: boring much?! Reminds
me of a bad episode IV. The plot of the film is essentially going to destroy the death star....
yes the death star... BUT NO WAIT IT'S 10X BIGGER IT'S FINE. All in all, even writing the review is painful. I was expecting a
beautifully executed movie, given the advancement of technology and
funding for this. Instead I saw something so simple, I wanted to leave
(during the premiere). Clearly, long gone are the days of incredible
creatures, amazing costumes (shout out to Lucas). And in are the days
of a cheap villain, who looks like he came straight out of a Disney
princess movie: and acts the same.... Please, please, please improve the next movie. DO A PLOT. We can think
for ourselves, I promise....
