1
An embarrassment to the film industry.

I saw this film in the summer of 2014 at the peak of its hype,
expectations weren't considerably high going in, but I never
anticipated to have two hours of my life wasted by a fat, arrogant,
vain, power hungry, woeful director. Who is so desperate to enhance his
public image that he disregards most of the desired qualities of a
'good film' such as plot, acting, character development, and
screenplay. I would love to go through the plot in detail, but the
following summary covers the A-Z of the storyline. We follow the trials
and tribulations of a considerably weighty individual who at the start
appears to have the perfect life (somehow), owning a massive mansion, a
doting model wife (who wouldn't bat an eye lid to his grotesque and
ample physique in any dimension) as well as servants, and a top job at
a successful restaurant where he is adored by his staff, including an
incredibly unlikely love interest of that of another model like
character played by Scarlett Johansson. Not surprisingly, Chef Favreau
throws a temper tantrum at his restaurant when a critic complains about
the food... What would seem to be a small blip in his idyllic life.
However this is not the case, THE CHEF then decides to leave his highly
paid job on a whim (clearly his model wife bringing in a hefty income
on the side) to start a whimsical cross-country adventure in a food
truck with his son and half of the staff who abandoned their job
security to pander to his bulging ego and damaging mid-life crisis.
Again somehow due to the help of his son's social media skills he
becomes immensely popular for his "famous" Cuban sandwiches. The only
presence of any form of conflict in this disaster strewn picture comes
with the tiff he endured with his spoilt little son over cleaning a
cooker. After this heart-wrenching moment the strong father-son
relationship is resumed immediately. Upon returning from his wild trek
across country all his problems are resolved as quick as he cultivated
them when the same critic pops up as a wealthy benefactor offering CHEF
JOOOHN the opportunity of a lifetime, which he duly accepts on the
condition he can continue to travel away from his newly entitled
responsibilities (seems to be a recurring theme in his life) to
continue high tailing across America as a internet born demi-god. All
in all a travesty in filmmaking and a stain on the reputation of most
esteemed critic sites (not to mention Rotten Tomatoes) and one that
pops to mind is IMDb. I am extremely disappointed in the users of this
website for giving it a rating of over 2. Don't BOTHER
