9
Old fashioned spooker delivering on its perilous period promise.

The Woman in Black is directed by James Watkins and adapted to
screenplay by Jane Goldman from Susan Hill's novel of the same name. It
stars Daniel Radcliffe, Ciarán Hinds and Janet McTeer. Music is scored
by Marco Beltrami and cinematography by Tim Maurice-Jones. Plot has
Radcliffe as young London solicitor Arthur Kipps, who is sent to the
North East village of Crythin Gifford to clear up the affairs of
deceased woman Mrs. Drablow. When he arrives he finds that the memory
of Drablow, and her remote house of Eel Marsh, holds the village in a
grip of fear, particularly those who have children.....It's fitting that that bastion of British horror, Hammer Studios,
should be behind this delightful period ghost story. For this
positively oozes old fashioned values, harking back to all those
wonderful spookers set around a creepy village that featured an even
creepier castle or mansion at its core. More presently, the film has
kindred links to the likes of The Orphanage, The Others and The
Changeling, while the vengeful spirit acting out of Eel Marsh House is
pumped by J-Horror like blood and Darkness Falls' Wraith bitch
nastiness. So clearly The Woman in Black is not a fresh arrival to the
horror splinter where the ghost story resides. However, great period
ghost story films are in short supply, and Watkins' film most assuredly
is a great entry in the sub-genre.Propelling it forward is Watkins' (Eden Lake) excellent sense of mood
and crafting of palpable unease. Quite often the better ghost story
films are better because they operate on a what you don't see is what
scares you more level, Watkins has managed to keep that aspect of his
film whilst also giving us enough of the truly terrifying spirit to
jolt us in our seats; often showing her to us and not to Radcliffe's
Kipps! When the shocks come, and there are many and they are bona fide
underwear soiling, they act as merciful releases from the built up
dread, but then when Watkins doesn't deliver a shock, we are left
waiting uneasily, darting our eyes all over the expansive frame,
searching fruitlessly for a glimpse of something troubling. Did that
wind up toy move? Is that a pallid face we just glimpsed in the
shadows? That damn rocking chair is the scariest there has ever been!
And on it goes....A film such as this is only as good as the production design and
setting for the story. Thankfully Watkins and his team have nailed it
there as well. Eel Marsh House exteriors are Cotterstock Hall in
Northamptionshire, perfectly foreboding, while the beautiful village of
Halton Gill in the Yorkshire Dales gets a Hammer Horror make over to
become Crythin Gifford. But it's with the interior of the house where
the makers excel, an utterly unforgiving and upsetting place,
brilliantly under lit by Tim Maurice-Jones for maximum scary effect.On the acting front the film rests solely on the shoulders of
Radcliffe, and he comes up trumps. Initially its awkward accepting him
as the father of a young boy, and once he gets to Crythin Gifford he is
dwarfed by all the other adults who live there, but once the Victorian
setting envelopes him the awkwardness evaporates and the
characterisation becomes more realistic and easy to sympathise with.
The character is changed from the book, meaning Radcliffe has to carry
inner torment as well as exuding an outer coat of trepidation blended
with stoic fear. It should be noted that for much of the picture he is
acting on his own, reacting to the house and the overgrown gardens and
marshes, in short he is terrific and it augers well for his adult
acting career. In support Hinds and McTeer are pillars of
professionalism, with McTeer's Mrs. Daily a creepy character in her own
right, but it's also another neat meditation on grief that sits
alongside Arthur Kipps'.The ending is also changed from that in the novel, and it's already
proving to be divisive. How you react to it, and it is up for a
two-fold interpretation, may dampen your overall enjoyment of the
picture? Personally I have no issue with it, I was still sunk in the
cinema chair breathing heavily at that point! The certification and the
presence of Radcliffe ensures that a teenage audience will flock to see
it, many of whom will not get the "horror" film that they are after.
Hopefully the word will get out that this really is only a film for
those who love a good boo jump ghost story of old, that's its target
audience, and that's the people whose reviews you should trust. 9/10
