7
Creative and fun period dress-up with great comic scenarios and little story

Several of today's top comedic actors gather to play medieval Italian
dress-up in "The Little Hours," a loose adaptation from part of "The
Decameron" created by indie comedic filmmaker Jeff Baena ("Life After
Beth," "Joshy"). Foremost an experiment in bringing contemporary
comedic approaches to an unexpected period setting, the film cashes in
on some delightfully fresh laughs and bizarre scenarios even though the
plot and story largely meanders.The story's main focus is on three young nuns at a convent, Sister
Fernanda (Aubrey Plaza), Sister Alessandra (Alison Brie) and Sister
Ginerva (Kate Miccuci), each dealing with a myriad of pent up emotions.
The catalyst to their wild behavior is the arrival of Massetto (Dave
Franco), a servant on the run for sleeping with his master's wife who
the convent's priest (John C. Reilly) takes in. Massetto agrees to do
labor around the convent for refuge, but must pretend to be deaf and
mute so the sisters will leave him alone.This classic farcical setup provides a launching pad for strange
behavior, and the largely improvised scenes have the tone of "what
would 21st century people say and do if they lived in the Middle Ages?"
Coming from the mouths of talents including (in addition to the
aforementioned) Molly Shannon, Nick Offerman, Jemima Kirke, Adam Pally
and Fred Armisen, a lot of the humor Baena's going for lands. For a
film driven way more by comedic concept than story, having the right
talent in front of the camera matters. The improvisational and sketch
comedy chops of this cast keeps the random, directionless story
interesting.The biggest shortcoming of "The Little Hours" is that Baena appears to
not have anything he wants to say, that there's no purpose behind the
film other than to make a comedy that feels fresh and distinctive by
using a classic Italian story as a platform for familiar antics. In
many ways, that is purpose enough, but it keeps the ceiling fairly low
on what "The Little Hours" can accomplish. Each little scene or comic
exchange bares the responsibility of keeping the viewer entertained
because we have not investment in the arc of the narrative.Still, the brilliance of blending really old literary and theatrical
tropes and contemporary attitudes leads to a number of worthwhile
moments. Baena puts a twist on odd rituals to seduce men, confessionals
and even witchcraft. The disconnect between these old practices and how
people think today turns into a reliable source of humor throughout the
film. Then there are all these supporting actors in the right places to
sprinkle in different flavors. If you're a fan of all or most of the
names attached to this movie, they are doing what they do best, and
that counts for something."The Little Hours" tries to hit some dramatic and romantic notes and
the film ends in such a way that suggests Baena was hoping some of the
notes would strike a chord, but his film is mostly a creative string of
good improv and sketch comedy that makes for an easy watch.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit Movie Muse Reviews for more
