9
About the Hero in All of Us

"Look at this, Boston Strong! You see that Jeff, you're a hero!" "I'm a
hero for surviving?" During this exchange Jeff (Gyllenhaal), his uncle
(Clarke) and his mother (Richardson) are driving home after a six week
stay at the hospital. Jeff's eyes are looking on, puzzled, sullen, and
even a little embarrassed that people standing on a highway walkway
have made a sign welcoming him back. He doesn't think himself a hero –
at this point he has no idea what to think.Stronger is the true-life story of Jeff Bauman, an ordinary Boston
native who lost his legs in the aftermath of the 2013 Boston Marathon
bombing. While recovering from the trauma of the event, Jeff
unwittingly becomes a symbol of hope for a city unnerved; a predicament
that puts undue strain on Jeff and his relationships with his family
and his on-again-off-again girlfriend Erin (Maslany).Wrapped around the familiar story-beats of an earnest but incidental
feel-good movie is a narrative that most of the time feels like it's
anything but. Director David Gordon Green wisely complicates and
subverts the expected narrative by looking up at characters and events
through Jeff's unique perspective. In one fell swoop Jeff becomes, in
his eyes, a trifling good-news segment, a drain on his family and fuel
for Erin's guilty conscience. Everyone, including the man who saved his
life (Sanz) labels him a hero. But Jeff is walled up by so many
conflicting emotions that trying to confront the actual tragedy is
almost insurmountable for him.Thus much of the movie is spent with Jeff adapting to the physical
limits of being paraplegic while uncomfortably inhibiting the role of a
proud survivor. There's a hard fought lesson by the end. One that makes
everything worth a watch but that doesn't make moments of Jeff toiling
in the bathroom any less harrowing. In one stressful scene Jeff has
what appears to be a panic attack after waving the flag at a Bruins
game. Erin stands over him trying desperately to touch and comfort him.
He aggressively swats her away.Stronger's heartbreaking moments do take their toll. And while Jeff's
chuckle-headed family of Boston brogued misfits provide levity to
offset some of the unpleasantness, the film still packs an emotional
wallop that I for one was not expecting; at least not to this
penetrating depth and rawness.Jake Gyllenhaal; always the underrated actor is master of his domain
here. He essentially plays two versions of Jeff – one a likable
man-child, the other a fractured soul slowly crawling back from the
darkness. Both work so completely and so honestly that when the film
dips into the grab-bag of feel-good clichés Gyllenhaal shakes any doubt
that we're looking at the real thing.When compared to the opportunistic Patriots Day (2016), Stronger has
infinitely more to say about the strength of everyday people and how
that strength can flourish through love and support. The collective
intuition of David Gordon Green, Jake Gyllenhaal and cinematographer
Sean Bobbitt breathes real pathos into what just might be the best
recovery story put to film. This isn't a movie about a hero; this is a
movie about the hero in all of us.
