7
And all through the house, a whole damn bunch of creatures were stirring.

"Krampus", based on actual folklore in Germany and Austria, may not be
without faults, but damn if it isn't a reasonably impressive new
addition to the canon of Yuletide genre movies. It starts out as an
obnoxious domestic comedy, as one family welcomes their grating
relatives in for the holidays. Young Max, played by the very appealing
Emjay Anthony, is so distraught by the friction between his kin that he
destroys his letter to Santa and turns his back on the Christmas
season. Big mistake: an imposing demon named Krampus makes it his
mission to punish - make that SEVERELY punish - all those who lose
their hopes and beliefs. Soon, horrible weather conditions presage an
escalating series of terrors for Max and company.Co-written and directed by Michael Dougherty, who also gave us a modern
Halloween favorite in the form of "Trick r Treat", this is surprisingly
engaging entertainment. However, it's not so much a horror comedy, as
it is a full-blown horror movie with some moments of levity. Despite
the PG-13 rating, it's not for the youngest members of your own family
due to some incredible intensity. It does take on the tones of a
nightmare. It's not always believable - if you heard the disembodied
voice of a loved one who'd gone missing, you'd sure as Hell want to
investigate - but this viewer regards this sort of thing as mostly pure
fantasy, anyway.It does have its pleasures, such as a rich variety of "monsters", which
are huge, hideous abominations of familiar toys and goodies. (This
viewers' personal favorite was the anaconda sized Jack in the box.)
There is some very potent atmosphere and quite a bit of macabre imagery
filling up the 2.35:1 frame.How one responds to the protagonists will most likely affect how they
respond to the film. Yours truly wouldn't have minded seeing everybody
get theirs. Still, the actors give it 100%: Adam Scott and Toni
Collette as Maxs' parents, David Koechner as the gun loving uncle,
Conchata Ferrell as the grumpy great aunt, and Krista Stadler as the
wise grandmother who knows the score, right from the start.A solid diversion overall, with some groan inducing dialogue and
moments but quite a bit of energy & pizazz and a twisted nature.Seven out of 10.
