3
Weisz and Renner act their assess off but not even their raw talent can save this film from Director Tony Gilroy's ego trip of a script and his lackluster directing.

This is truly a case of great actors who are left out there in the cold
by a director, who essentially does not even try to respect them and
the audience's intelligence by giving them something original or
interesting. Tony Gilroy had written not only the first three Bourne
films but the great Michael Clayton as well but here, it is obvious
that he is on a destructive ego trip. Gilroy is more interested in
making people see on how smart he is as a scriptwriter and filmmaker
than actually try to entertain and stay true to what made the other
Bourne films special. With that destructive mind set, Gilroy forgets
that you need faith in your actors and the material they are working
with in order to drive the movie forward. Gilroy also commits the
biggest sin of all, which is to never underestimate the intelligence of
your audience.The script by Gilroy and his brother Dan tries to be cutting edge in
scientific jargon and smart dialog but ends up with so many
inconsistencies and flimsy characterization that you have to double
back twice to see if Gilroy actually had a hand in the original "Bourne
Trilogy". The characters in this film are only there to get from A to B
and none of them with the exception of Rachel Weisz and Jeremy Renner
(Who you can clearly see are both working beyond the call of duty to
make something out of their paper-thin roles) has any real purpose at
all. Poor Edward Norton is only there to bark orders and you can
clearly see how frustrated he is with his role in certain scenes. The
direction is not even very good, with pacing problems and a running
time that excessively too long for its own good. The action scenes (The
few of them in the film) do not jar well and are boring to say the
least.My advice to Universal, if there has to be a sequel, bring back Rachel
Weisz and Jeremy Renner (Who both deserve medals for their efforts in
making this lazy, self indulgent script work) and get rid of Tony
Gilroy, who clearly does not respect anybody other than himself. You
might have a better movie if you do.
