2
Worst movie I've seen this year.

I really didn't like this movie. Not because of the gore, not because
of the language, but because of the pacing, the acting and most
definitely the ending. The movie went on for two hours and they left it
hanging at a really stupid time - if you're going to purposely leave
the ending hanging, leave it at a time point where it's a bit ambiguous
and up to the viewer how it ends. But they left it hanging at a point
where it's pretty obvious what's going to happen next, but denying the
viewers the chance to see the story wrap up (why????)The pacing was terrible. You hardly got a chance to feel and know the
characters before things were happening. You felt no sympathy for the
girls, who you saw for maybe a few minutes before they got abducted.
You didn't share the mum's grief because her acting was so obviously
forced. The guy who gets tortured and beaten was (surprise surprise)
completely innocent, which was obvious right from the start. The dad is
only ever shown stony-faced or blowing his tits in a rage, except for
towards the end when his guilt over bashing up a guy who's clearly
innocent makes him get stressed and say a few lines of prayer, and then
torture the kid some more. And at the end when he finds out the culprit
is the kid's aunt, he doesn't even show a single bit of remorse over
the horrible thing he's done. Also, the aunt: really? Urgh, so obvious. So tired of the same old
formula in every thriller movie: killer turns out to be the one you
least expect, someone you were introduced to at the start of the movie,
and the crazy story behind them being the unlikeliest killer in the
world is revealed only at the end. Halfway through the movie I used
that formula to deduce the only person who fit it was the aunt, and
prayed to God that this movie wouldn't follow the same boring cliché.
But it did, even though they ended up adding a possible suspect later
whose storyline they didn't bother to explain and whose purpose was
simply to try and lead us off the right trail when they brought out the
'it's the aunt' card right at the end. What was with that guy? Why was
he obsessed with pouring pig's blood on kids' clothes? Nobody cares,
apparently.Movie makers - if you're going to make the main character some sort of
antihero who's morally ambiguous, who does awful things out of
desperation, who thinks they're doing the wrong thing for the right
reasons, actually put in some effort making us CONNECT with this
character. Show us his human side, show him feeling guilt and remorse,
show him with his head in his hands saying 'what have I done?', show
him feeling worried as hell about his daughter, show him co-operating
with the police because he realises that's his best chance of getting
his daughter back. Give us a better reason for him taking the law into
his own hands than just him thinking he's better than the police at
judging who's a criminal and who's not. Show him TRYING to act like a
decent human being before succumbing to his emotions and going
ballistic. Show him doubting whether what he's doing is really right at
all. Show that good side as well as the bad. REALLY show it, because
the few moments he showed a sliver of distress, he seemed more
angry/upset that the kid wasn't talking than that he may be doing
something awful. Because this whole movie I was almost hoping his
daughter would die just to serve him right. I felt more hatred towards
the father who was alternating between praying to God and torturing a
mentally disabled kid than the woman who abducted his child. Epic fail.
