8
Keeping up with the Laughs

Thankfully - we have the utter disaster of a movie that was "Mr & Mrs
Smith" as a baseline for this movie - although I personally found it
more in line with "The Whole Nine Yards". Now it's probably no secret that too many people who do reviews take
themselves WAY too seriously and seem to think that everyone who reads
their review will consider them to have been the center of their
universe for a few minutes (newsflash - watch the yelp episode of
southpark - that's you - exactly you) - but I kind of expected people
to cut this movie the slack it much desperately needs. Reviewers seem
to be utterly incensed that this is not some uber slick Jason Bourne
effort; but those same reviewers ranked both "Skyfall" (the truly first
ever raping of the James Bond Franchise) and "Inception" (one of the
worst movies ever made) rather highly - and really only showing there
is no accounting for taste.This is a lighthearted, funny af movie with an EXCEPTIONALLY solid
cast, direction and production. It's let down by some glaringly poor
continuity and editing - but that's the only reason I am not giving it
a solid 10. Now let me explain something - I cannot STAND Zack
Gandalfushallnotpassius or whatever his name is - I still want a full
refund for the 1h 30m of my life spent watching him attempt to act in
"the Hangover" - but he totally owns this movie. Gal Gadot and Jon Hamm
are literally two of the best casting decisions made in a movie in a
long time. It does not have to be Oscar worthy to be good casting. They
are not only polished - but they are believable. They could do with
being a bit more "bad-ass" but it's hard to say more about that without
giving away spoilers.Isla Fisher was new to me - but I loved her. She's cute and sassy, but
carries her character very very well indeed. Second only to Zack - her
performance was superb.This is not a sleek, intellectual thriller - if that's what you want -
watch the Odessa Files, or Bourne - or Bond (but obviously before
Barbara Broccoli turned it into an utterly crap franchise) - it's not
an action packed explosions/car chase filled movie - it's dry humor
delivered with impeccable style. Reviewers need to learn how to look at
a movie for what it is and review it that way - rather than review it
for what they thought it would be like.Pros: it's slick and moves at a great pace. It has a predictable plot
that leaves you with no illusions of grandeur - there is nothing to
figure out - this movie does it all for you. Beautifully I might add.
Great acting - tons of laughs if you don't expect Katt Williams levels
of comedic genius. Gal Gadot in lingerie. Isla Figher In lingerie.Cons: it's slightly bereft of any really cool action scenes. Having the
spies be utterly impeccable would have been a really good idea - but
they are kinda just smartish - run of the mill types. Some of the plot
line makes very little sense - but this is not a proposition for
Wittgenstein - so really who cares if this spy-comedy is a little plot
thin? Continuity/editing is awful in one very particular spot.Totally unnecessary - but utterly welcome extra Pro: This movie has Gal
Gadot in it. In lingerie. Let me restate that: *clears throat* Gal fricking Gadot - in fricking
lingerie!! That's an automatic 4 or 5 stars. It also has Isla Fisher in Lingerie - but seriously people Gal Gadot In
lingerie!I highly recommend this movie. It's a "lay on the couch with your
significant other eating popcorn and drinking red wine" type of movie.
And that's just fine by me :)
