5
Little joy for moviegoers in this Tale of Mrs Mop!

If you think the story of a woman whose claim to fame is that she
invented a 'miracle mop' and made millions selling it via TV shopping
channels sounds a poor basis for a movie, watching Joy will do little
to change your opinion. Despite its claims, there is little that is
'inspirational' or even particularly interesting about Joy Mangano's
progress from schoolgirl to 'matriarch', at least as portrayed in this
quasi-biopic.The film starts interestingly by thrusting the viewer into a 1980s (? -
it could have been 1950s) TV soap. At this point I thought Joy would
perhaps be a comedic satire on the inanities of American consumerism.
With a few tweaks it could have become just that and how much more
interesting and challenging that would have been.The quirky opening note rapidly fades. We soon discover that Joy's
story is going to be told by her granny, a prospect that does not bode
well if you are looking for gritty realism and objectivity. Since
granny dies halfway through the film, we then realise that the whole
thing is being narrated from beyond the grave. Poignant? No, spooky and
sentimental at best. From there on the plot lumbers along conventional
channels to its predetermined conclusion.As the movie progresses it becomes more leaden, especially when we
encounter the head of a TV shopping channel (Bradley Cooper). He comes
across as a stereotypical corporate carthorse, who truly believes that
pulling his telly-shopping cart is a higher calling. When Joy succeeds,
at the second attempt, in presenting her miracle mop to the World on
live TV and the sales indicator goes ballistic, the studio erupts with
an ovation reminiscent of the one in Mission Control when the Apollo 11
astronauts touched down on the Moon. Hey guys, calm down - it's just a
mop! If Joy's triumph seems a bit too good to be true, the credibility
of the ensuing story is not enhanced by demonstrations of very poor
business acumen on both her and her advisers parts. She would have got
nowhere on Dragon's Den! When later Joy discovers she has been
double-crossed in her business dealing by a most improbable
circumstance, we begin to wonder if granny has got her facts straight.One has to conclude that this rather unexciting movie is basically a
star vehicle for Jennifer Lawrence. Visually, fans will not be
disappointed as she is displayed in numerous full-length shots and
close-ups. But the role has too little meat in it to demand much of
Lawrence in the way of acting. Robert de Niro, reprising his Jack
Byrnes (Meet the Fockers) character, brings some bright moments to the
proceedings, not least with a very funny wedding speech. But the
occasional humour sits uneasily with the serious intent of the movie to
tell an uplifting tale of a woman's successful struggle against
adversity.Unless you think American consumer culture really is something to get
worked up over, it may prove difficult to be fully engaged by the
inspirational tone of Joy. That aside, there is little here to lift
this movie above the ordinary. Talk of awards and even Oscars seems
wholly misplaced; one critic even describes Joy as on a par with the
Hollywood classics. No wonder they say you should never believe what
you read in the papers - nor what you see on the tele-shopping
channels! Viewed at HOME (successor to the Cornerhouse), Manchester, UK, 10
January 2016.
