8
This is a really fine movie

This is a really fine movie; there is a subtle difference between a
work of which you would say 'the movie was fine' and the deliberate
syntax I chose: 'fine movie '. If you can appreciate the nuance, you
can appreciate the performances delivered by the superb cast. Indeed
the producers and or directors as well as those responsible for casting
the likes of Tom Hardy, Guy Pierce, Gary Oldman, Shia LaBeouf, Jason
Clarke, Jessica Chastain and Mia Wasikoska must be commended for their
choice. The filmographies of Pierce, Hardy, Oldman, LaBeouf and
Wasikoska made this a film I would not have missed, one I awaited with
as much anticipation as the next Bond flick, but not for the same
reasons. These five consummate professionals were impeccable in
depicting characters of Matt Bondurant's novel.Add outstanding co-lead of Jason Clarke, Jessica Chastain (movie The
Help) and Dane DeHaan, not to mention very good supporting performances
by Noah Taylor and others, and this brilliant ensemble could have only
failed to bring us quality work if the direction had not been up to
par; director John Hillcoat, whose movies The Road and The Proposition
I also highly recommend, did as well as he has in his previous movies.
He knows how to play the audience by holding back just enough to keep
you wanting more and to give you time to feel the emotions the actors
put into their respective characters. Each character has strong deeply
rooted personas; it was a thrill to see some of my favourite actors
deliver that on screen. Hardy has that modern quiet intense John Wayne
charisma about him, Pierce plays the sadistic law officer inebriated by
his authority, LaBeouf the gentle soul who overcomes the weakness his
brothers tried to help reform; LaBeouf has the most screen time as he
goes through a greater maturing transition called by his character. One
part of LaBeouf's transition was falling in love with the natural
beauty that is Mia Wasikoska (terrific lead role in the movie Jane
Eyre), and he does that very convincingly. Mind you, she looks sweet
and her character is most endearing; I dreamt of seeing her face on the
pillow next to mine the next morning.As the storyline implies, this is a period piece, one with the sort of
action you should expect for its backdrop. I liked that the director
chose not to depict any of his characters in the usual hillbilly
clichés. Unless you don't like or care for period pieces, and even
then, I recommend this movie; you need to see good acting performances
by this ensemble of pros.
