6
Nun of this is appropriate

Greetings again from the darkness. It's not often when the obvious
comparison to a movie is the classic 1975 comedy Monty Python and the
Holy Grail, and it's even more unusual for such a film to be making the
rounds at festivals (I saw this at Oak Cliff Film Festival) where
schedules tend to be loaded with serious and dark subject matter. This
outlandish comedy won't be to everyone's taste, as it is profane and at
times mean-spirited.The year is 1347 when writer/director Jeff Baena's story kicks off
outside a convent where it takes less than a couple of minutes to
realize that these aren't your usual nuns. Profanity spews forth, as
does laughter from the audience. Dave Franco plays a servant who has a
good reason to flee from his King (Nick Offerman) and agree to a
cockamamie plan suggested by the local priest (John C Riley). The plan
has Franco working at the convent pretending to be deaf mute, while
struggling to decline the advances from the aforementioned warped nuns
played by Aubrey Plaza (the director's long-time girlfriend), Alison
Brie, Kate Micucci (Unleashed).Plot is barely an after-thought here, and most of the movie plays like
interrelated Saturday Night Live skits. In fact, Fred Armisen and Molly
Shannon are part of the ensemble, along with Paul Reiser and Adam
Pally. Just as the characters begin to wear a bit thin, a new character
is introduced, resuscitating our interest. Each of the actors deliver,
but it's Armisen and Micucci who are especially fun to watch, as is
Riley's tendency to turn communal wine into a community beverage.Raunchy medieval comedies filled with debauchery and outrageously
misdirected nuns could be classified as a bit of a stretch. However it
makes more sense when you learn that Mr. Baena has adapted this from
Giovanni Boccaccio's "The Decameron", and his use of modern day
dialogue and attitudes, delivered by an ultra talented comedic cast,
makes this one to watch after a particularly rough day or week of work.
Expect an altar filled with f-words and blasphemy with a wink. If you
are OK with that, you'll likely laugh and enjoy the temporary reprieve
from real life  even without any killer rabbits or Knights who say
"ni".
