9
Iron Man 3 is damn good.

With comic book movies, there is a repeating cycle. The first one has
our attention. The sequel, most of the time (in the case of Spider-man
2, The Dark Knight, X2, etc.), outdoes the original. But then we are
eventually faced with the third part. In some cases (The Dark Knight
Rises), the third part kicks ass. In most cases (Spider-man 3, X-Men:
The Last Stand), they are the weakest. Luckily, this is simply not the
case for Iron Man 3.The film takes place after the events of The Avengers, and Tony Stark
(the always wonderfully charismatic Robert Downey Jr.) is falling
apart. He's losing sleep, he's having anxiety attacks, and he is slowly
becoming distant from his faithful girlfriend Pepper (wonderfully
played by Gwenyth Paltrow again). But it only gets worse when a
terrorist named The Mandarin (Ben Kingsley, putting on a chilling
accent) starts wreaking havoc across the globe.Guy Pearce shows up as a scientist named Aldrich Killian (what a
villain name), and if you know anything about Guy Pearce, you can
assume Aldrich isn't very nice. Rebecca Hall, who is very underrated
might I add, shows up as Maya, a scientist girl that Tony met in the
90s. And Don Cheadle reprises his Iron Man 2 role as Jim Rhoades,
Tony's best friend. There are a lot of plot details that I will leave
out because I want you to see Iron Man 3 with an empty mind, otherwise
it can't be enjoyed.I was feeling a lot of things throughout Iron Man 3. I was really into
it in the first half hour. Then, these weird fire people showed up, and
I thought, "Oh God, are we watching Thor?" (I actually love Thor, but I
found the blend of fantasy at first off). But as the film went on it
all made sense and I accepted it. Then, I was also feeling de ja vu,
because I felt like Killian and Mandarin were fairly similar to Justin
Hammer and Ivan from the previous. But that is one of the wonderful
things about Iron Man 3: It's unpredictable.Iron Man 3 is damn good. The heart and soul of this trilogy is Downey
Jr., and here is is at his best doing what he does best. Iron Man is my
favorite of The Avengers, and really, could you blame me? Downey's
amazing. What helps this time is the fact that this one is directed and
co-written by Shane Black (Lethal Weapon, The Long Kiss Goodnight, Kiss
Kiss Bang Bang). Black has a gift with blending action with humor, and
this is easily the funniest of the trilogy. It is also the best acted.I had a total blast here. Is it as good as something like The Dark
Knight trilogy? Well, if you know my stance on that trilogy, then that
answer is obvious. Is it as good as the first two? Yes, and maybe even
better. The film has a great energy, a great sense of humor, some
terrific surprises and some terrific action sequences that will leave
the inner nerd within jumping for joy.I find it difficult to give comic book movies a 10/10, mainly because I
have such a high standard when it comes to them. Yes, perfect comic
book movies exist. Is Iron Man 3 perfect? Not quite, because it doesn't
exactly have the themes that the perfect comic book movies acquire. In
other words, I wasn't moved by it. But that's okay, because the Iron
Man trilogy isn't meant to be taken as seriously as some others, and so
they shouldn't. But no comic book movie in a long time has danced this
close to perfection in a long time. This could be the end of Iron Man.
I hope it isn't, but at least he goes out in style.A-
