7
Scott Eastwood's Big Break

Movies made from bestsellers by Nicholas Sparks usually require Kleenex
galore if you don't want to drown in your own tears. The tenth Sparks'
novel to receive the silver screen treatment, "The Longest Ride" isn't
as hopelessly tragic as some of the author's earlier tearjerkers.
Meaning, "The Longest Ride" is nowhere near as heartbreaking as
"Message in a Bottle" (1999), "A Walk to Remember" (2002), "The
Notebook" (2004), "Nights in Rodanthe" (2008), and "The Best of Me"
(2014). Mind you, "The Longest Ride" does have more than enough
lachrymose moments. Nevertheless, everything works out well enough for
all the protagonists in this sappy soap opera. Each of the four primary
characters and most of the supporting players are endearing souls. The
villains that lurk on the periphery are far from despicable. More than
anything else, they just seem suspicious, but never hateful. Like "The
Notebook," "The Longest Ride" intertwines two romantic melodramas
occurring in different times at different places to illuminate the
message that true love involves sacrifice. "The Longest Ride" emerges
as lightweight and frivolous compared with the far more serious
"Notebook." "Scream 4" actress Britt Robertson and Clint Eastwood's
youngest son Scott Eastwood portray the youthful lovers in the
contemporary romance who negotiate an obstacle course of trials and
tribulations. She is a second semester college senior studying art from
the city with her entire life awaiting her, while he is a hard-luck,
rodeo riding cowboy from the country playing wet nurse to snotty bulls
and struggling to save the family ranch. In the romance from the past,
set during the Second World War, Jack Huston plays the Jewish son of a
haberdasher who falls in love with a vibrant refuge from Vienna. Jack's
inamorata, Oona Chaplin, and her family have fled from the wicked Nazis
and are embarking on a new life. Interestingly enough, "The Longest
Ride" marks the first time that Sparks has integrated his predominantly
White, Anglo-Saxon, Protestant characters with Jewish characters.
Despite their ethnic traditions, each couple must triumph over
demoralizing medical conditions that threaten to ruin their romance
more than parents concerned with class mixing. You know tragedy is going to strike in "The Longest Ride," but you
cannot be certain when it will or who it will affect the worst. The
contemporary romance between the cowboy and the city slicker surpasses
the experiences of the Jewish couple. Principally Britt Robertson and
Scott Eastwood generate greater charisma than Jack Huston and Oona
Chaplin. Nevertheless, "Soul Food" director George Tilman Jr., and
"Light It Up" scenarist Craig Bolotin neatly connect the older romance
with the contemporary one. Sophia Danko (Britt Robertson of "Scream 4")
is the kind of college student who would rather study than goof off on
campus with her sisters. Now that she's half way through his second
senior semester and has earned straight A's, Sophia cuts herself some
slack when a sorority sister invites her out to witness a rodeo. Love
at first sight aptly describes Sophia's reaction when the bull that
rodeo rider Luke Collins (Scott Eastwood of "Fury") straddles sends him
sprawling into the dirt at her feet. Luke loses his Stetson, and Sophia
retrieves it for him. Luke lets her keep his headgear and ambles away.
Later, during the day, Luke and Sophia strike up a conversation and the
inevitable date ensues. Basically, she is the sophisticated dame, while
he is a rural ranch hand. Nevertheless, opposites attract in the best
love stories. Anyway, as Luke is taking Sophia back to her sorority house after their
first date, they notice smashed through a bridge railing. They find an
elderly man who plunged off the bridge and slammed into a tree. He lies
near death in his wrecked car. Courageously, Luke pulls Ira Levinson
(Alan Alda of "The Aviator"), from his automobile. Ira cries out about
a box, and Sophia grabs it as Luke is toting Ira away. Since nobody
knows Ira at the hospital, Sophia hangs around until he awakens from
surgery. Ira, it seems, banged his head up pretty badly in the
accident. As a patient, Ira is nothing but cantankerous. He complains
that his nurse soaks her hands in ice water. Sophia tells him that she
was one of the two good Samaritans who rescued him. Moreover, she
persuades grumpy Ira to eat his objectionable hospital fare. If he'll
eat his food, she promises to read some of the letters in the box of
letters. Sophia knows the letters are love letters because she has
perused them. Later, she reads Ira, and we find ourselves swept up in a
wistful flashback love affair in the 1940s between a Jewish lad and
lady from different backgrounds. As it turns out, love is no different
for different people. Everybody encounters variations on the same
heartache. The love of Ira's life, Ruth (Oona Chaplin of "Quantum of
Solace") dreams of having a large family, but Ira cannot accommodate
her owing to a war wound. Like Noah in "The Notebook," Ira tangles with
the Nazis in Europe, but he comes home a different man much to Ruth's
chagrin. Meantime, Luke and Sophia quarrel after a nasty bull dumps
him. Luke's physician warns him his next tumble could be fatal. Sophia
begs him to quit bull riding, but Luke refuses out of stubborn pride."The Longest Ride" is sure to make Scott Eastwood into a movie star. He
looks so much like his father that you cannot believe he is his son.
Director George Tillman doesn't overlook an opportunity to photograph
every muscular contour of Eastwood's virile physique, and the PG-13
rating prevents him from going all out. Eastwood and co-star Britt
Robertson have a shower scene together and do just about everything
that is expected of a young romantic couple. Comparatively, Ruth and
Ira's romance is restrained. Alan Alda spends most of his time in a
hospital bed. Altogether, "The Longest Ride" serves up a lot of hankie
with some panky.
