10
Simon Says Go Watch this Movie

The Gift is written and directed by Joel Edgerton. It stars Joel
Edgerton, once again, Jason Bateman and Rebecca Hall.The Gift surrounds a married couple(Jason Bateman, Rebecca Hall) as
they transition into a new job, new house, new neighbors, new friends,
basically a new life. As they shop for furniture Simon(Jason Bateman)
encounters an old acquaintance from High school, Gordon or Gordo(Joel
Edgerton), with a creepy demeanor and an obvious grudge.The Gift is Hitchcockian. I can't call it anything it isn't. I went
into this movie with medium expectations and left with a newfound
respect and awe for one person. This person is Joel Edgerton. As a
director, he can't do wrong. The shots were inspired and eerie. He cut
at just the right times to ensure the audience is terrified but not
disgusted. As a writer, he can't do wrong. This is honestly one of the
best scripts of the year and I hope it gets an Oscar nomination. It was
so well written. The major player in both the direction and the writing
is that no serious violence was portrayed in any scene in this movie
but yet it manages to crawl under your skin and linger long after the
movie's over. This is partly thanks to the excellent cinematography by
Eduard Grau. Finally as an actor, CAN'T DO WRONG! He was creepy as hell
but yet you some how want to root for him. He plays the role magically
and was by far the best part of this movie. Jason Bateman, oh how woefully I doubted you. At first I didn't think
he could pull it off. But he did. He was perfect as well. he was sly
and slimy as well as awkwardly funny and relatable ( before everything
goes down). Rebecca Hall in many ways was the main character. She did
great. Though she wasn't as good as Edgerton or Bateman, she certainly
held her own. Another great aspect of the movie was the soundtrack and
the score. It fit perfectly to the subtly creepy atmosphere. Finally
Since the script was so well written the viewer is left in ambiguity
towards the morals of a character and I find this masterfully executed
with every twist and turn being virtually unpredictable.All and all I loved this movie. Some might argue that the pacing is a
bit off nut with such a short runtime. Certain things are justifiably
stretched our skimmed. personally I didn't find this much of a problem.
The Gift IS my favorite movie of the year so far and is a must see. The
Gift gets an A+ or a 10/10. Simon says go watch this movie!
