8
I haven't laughed this much in a long time

I have never written a review here before because others have usually
said it all already.Yet, here I am writing a review because I feel this movie is getting a
bad rap. The rating is too low, in my opinion.I read some of the "hated it" reviews and people say it was awful and
the jokes were horrible, but I don't get why they say that. It's their
opinion, of course, and here is mine: This movie was hilarious! I
laughed more seeing this movie than I did with the last two Madea
movies I saw. The jokes, the attitudes, the bits and the business were
one on top of another. It just kept rolling. To me, it seemed jam
packed with comedy, much more so than previous Madea movies.Maybe I was just in the mood for laughter. Maybe the opinions of some
of the critics would be a bit lighter if they relaxed and enjoyed.
Maybe I enjoyed the movie because I didn't have any expectations. I had
not seen any trailers and didn't know what the movie was about. I went
because a friend wanted to see it and Madea is always good for some
laughs.I think that perhaps the reason the movie worked so well was because of
the combination of "horror" with "comedy." Horredy? Lots of creepy clowns popping up here and there and with the unpleasant
clown business that has been going on I questioned Perry's wisdom using
the clowns,but then the movie was probably too far into production when
the yucky clown business came up and what could he do? He had to stick
with it. Perhaps some of the humor played off of the "Neighbors" movie
with the fraternity involvement.There was, of course, the teaching moment, which, in my opinion, was
very funny, and very, very good. Very pertinent and handled
respectfully and thoughtfully. Not overdone at all. It didn't bring
down the fun of the movie or dampen the spirit.I think it is well worth the admission price to go and see this movie.
If you are with a good, active audience it is even more fun.So, go, relax, sit back and let yourself be entertained. Enjoy it for
what it is.
