8
IT may not be the only good Stephen King adaptation we get this year after all...

Gerald's Game was not a movie I had on my radar. I've read some of
Stephen King's books, but the story which this film is based on was not
one of them. Furthermore, what I had read of the film's synopsis didn't
seem to be up my alley. With the positive word of mouth I had been
hearing about the film, however, coupled with the involvement of
director Mike Flanagan, a man whose previous work (Oculus, Hush) I
enjoyed, I thought I would give the movie a chance. I'm glad I did.The movie starts off with a simple enough premise: Jessie and Gerald
Burlingame (played masterfully by Carla Gugino and Bruce Greenwood)
decide to spend a weekend at their lake house in what seems to be a
last ditch attempt at reinvigorating their marriage. Of course, this
lake house is quite secluded and if something were to go awry-- as is
typically the case in these kinds of movies-- there is nary a soul in
sight to lend their aid. So when Gerald's failed attempt at acting out
his sexual fantasy leaves his wife in handcuffs, Jessie has only her
own wits to fall back on when Gerald suddenly suffers from a fatal
heart attack before her eyes.Without giving too much away, what follows is a deeply character driven
tale not unlike something along the lines of films such as Buried and
127 Hours, where a great deal of the film is confined to one location
while our heroine tries to battle her inner demons along with the very
deadly situation she has found herself in. Jessie must use every last
resource she can come into contact with, and Carla Gugino must do some
rather heavy lifting as this film largely revolves around Jessie and
the interactions between herself and the inner workings of her mind
played out in front of her. As is the case in this sort of film, Gerald's Game hinges entirely on
the strength of its cast, and fortunately Gugino is more than up to the
task. As is Bruce Greenwood, who gets his fair share of snappy dialogue
and is responsible for some appropriately amusing moments. Though this
is a small cast, the few other actors who make appearances in the film
are all given enough moments to make a lasting impression as well. Like
Andy Muschietti's adaptation of Stephen King's IT, this is a movie that
is successful not because it throws buckets of blood and gore at the
screen, but because it has heart and characters you quickly find
yourself invested in. That said, there is still plenty of haunting
imagery here; the worst of it simply relies less on gore and more so on
the depravity of man. Gerald's Game rewards those who are willing to
allow themselves to enjoy the slow build up of dread and unsettling
visuals, as opposed to sudden and cheap jump scares.Any complaints I have with Gerald's Game largely have to do with the
epilogue. Being vague, I can only say that the final few minutes felt a
little tacked on and didn't really gel with the tone set up by the rest
of the movie. It's certainly nowhere near enough to deter me from
recommending the film and though I cannot speak to how faithful the
movie is to its source material, I must say that this movie now has me
quite eager to pick up the book and find that out for myself.
