8
Not everyone will like it, but I did.

The Hit-man's Bodyguard is a movie I never knew I wanted to see until I
saw the first trailer. I was instantly hooked, and couldn't wait to see
it on opening day. Well, I actually got a bit lucky for once as I was
invited to see the movie almost two weeks before it opened. And I gotta
say, it's one of the best action/comedy movies I've watched in quite a
while...perhaps since Deadpool.So what's this movie about? Well, it's about a guy (Ryan Reynolds) who
used to run a protection agency before he lost a client and his
business failed, forcing him to become a personal bodyguard. He is
tasked by an Interpol agent to get a witness who is a former assassin
(Samuel L. Jackson) to a courthouse to testify against a dictator.
Craziness ensues.While the story sounds interesting, it plays out in a pretty typical
and predictable way. Not that I should have expected much more. It is
an action/comedy film, after all. But predictability aside, the story
does get the job done. Yeah, you'll be able to figure out how the film
will end within the first 30 minutes or so, but that's not all that
important, because it's all about the journey to that very predictable,
and satisfying, ending. And boy, the adventure that Samuel L. Jackson
and Ryan Reynolds go on is extremely entertaining.Being a comedy, you'd expect some good comedy in this film, right?
Well, The Hit-man's Bodyguard delivers on that expectation and then
some. Once you get past the movie's slow start, it's pretty much an all
you can chuckle buffet. (The chemistry between Ryan Reynolds and Samuel
L. Jackson is incredible!) Of course there are a few jokes that fall
flat, but they are few and far between. Oh yeah, if you're a fan of
Deadpool humor, you'll really like this movie. It's not full-blown
Deadpool, but it's pretty damn similar.Now, the biggest surprise for me with this movie is how great the
action sequences are. The team behind this film definitely drew some
influence from movies like John Wick and Jason Bourne for both the
combat scenes and the chase scenes. They're riveting, with some great
humor sprinkled in.Overall, The Hit-man's Bodyguard is one of the biggest surprises of the
year so far for me, and will definitely go down as one of the most
enjoyable films of the year. It's funny, it's action packed, and the
story is interesting enough to keep it all moving towards a satisfying
conclusion. So yeah, I guess you could say it's pretty dang good. Go
see it when it comes out on August 18th.
