2
Completely on autopilot...

Let me start by saying that I don't hate superhero films. I like them
very much when they are done well. I hate laziness in films and
superficiality. The problem is that pretty much every superhero film
made is very lazy and most of them are entirely superficial. Marvel's
initial idea of an Avengers universe was inspired from a marketing
stand point but I am beginning to question whether or not it has been a
failure from a creative stand point. 'Thor the Dark World' is a
terrible movie. It does absolutely nothing to add to the mythos of the
character or this Marvel universe. The only reason it exists is to draw
up excitement for the next Avengers film. There are no stakes to this film and there are a lot of places to
direct blame. The acting aside from Tom Hiddleston is next to
unwatchable. The thing is that this is a very talented cast we are
working with here. Anthony Hopkins and Natalie Portman have both won
Academy Awards. Stellan Skarsgard is one of the most fascinating
character actors in Hollywood. I like Hemsworth a lot too and thought
he was great in the first 'Thor' film. But none of them invest anything
in the material. Hopkins looks bored and emotes nothing in his
delivery. Portman's performance is terrible too and in the process of
it being terrible it makes a terrible script look even worse. Jane
Foster is a horrible character here. She is by far the stupidest damsel
in distress portrayed in comic books recently. Portman is too lazy to
give her any sort of character. She punctuates every cheap joke and
many of them are just about how ditsy the character is. This kind of
writing and performance make me almost agree that comic books offer a
flawed and stereotypical depiction of women. Stellan Skarsgard, an
actor I think has great depth, is played as a complete fool here. I
hated every time he appeared on screen and I am a Stellan Skarsgard
fan. I don't place the blame all on him but yeah everyone here did
something very wrong in bringing these stupidly conceived characters to
life.In actuality though they are not the biggest problem with the film. The
problem is that there is no threat to anything or anyone. The villain
here is so completely forgettable and has a plan for evil so half assed
that they movie really had no chance of working. This is the ultimate
example of a conflict for the sake of having a conflict. If actor
Christopher Eccleston is not rewarded a Razzie for his portrayal here
than that award show has lost all credibility. Villains even poorly
written ones with no motivation like this Maleketh should at least
offer the actor the chance to try to ham it up with the tropes of goofy
villainy. Eccleston doesn't do that. He has a boring calm delivery that
evokes no response but laughter. And since Eccleston's performance is
such an overwhelming failure I was drawn to how stupid his make-up
looked too. I wish I could give this a bomb rating, I really do. To be honest
though Tom Hiddleston is too damn good in the Loki role to say the film
is completely without merit. They don't do anything new with his
character here but he's so entertaining and in every Marvel film he
adds new layers and nuances to a very interesting character. A whole
movie could have been made about this stage of Loki's life and it would
have been so much more entertaining and compelling than this load of
work. Hiddleston portrays Loki as unchained with no loyalty to anyone.
This is the first film where we see him as a trickster and Hiddleston
delivers suffice to say. The problem is he isn't really in the film
long enough. Jane Foster, Darcy, and Dr Selvig all get more screen time
than Loki. Here's my brilliant business proposition to Marvel. Don't make any
movies but Avengers films. Give your golden boy Joss Whedon the four
hundred or so million you spent on 'Iron Man 3' and 'Thor the Dark
World' and see what he does with it. In watching 'Iron Man 3' and this
film it is clear that is where the mindset and passion are. I hope the Marvel cinematic universe can be saved but I have to say
that their track record is looking really bad right now. Kevin Feige
and Disney should look back at Favareu's first 'Iron Man' film. It was
gutsy and took risks and there was no guarantee of immediate endless
sequels.
