6
Probably better if you love video games

This is the last time I sit in the middle of the row. Had I been
sitting on the aisle I would have left long before the movie was over.Maybe if I were in the 13 to 24 age bracket and had grown up playing
video games...Or maybe if I were still a little boy at heart and still played video
games...One reviewer lauded the "jaw dropping" visual fx. Really? Was this
person exaggerating or just haven't been to the movies in about 20
years? Nothing new here. Same visual fx you'll see in any 200 million
movie or a video game.The bottom line is this movie is just like a big long expensive video
game. If you like that then go see it. Except don't be disappointed if
they don't let you have the controller.Don't get me wrong, I think it's totally cool when a bad guy can get
run over by and Escalade(after having beaten up The Rock, for crying
out loud) and get right back up and run away. It's also kind of cool
that he can get on a motorcycle, start it, put it in gear AND ride
safely away in less time than it takes for said Escalade to hit a
dumpster. Also, it was interesting that Duke had the time to yell
"Incoming" get Flint out of the way yet he sits there and takes it like
a man. I guess Tatum wanted out of his contract. Maybe he saw this
going the same way as Police Academy 15.I'm not sure why I expect so much from a movie based on a toy. My only
question is where will they go next? They have GI Joe, Battle Ship,
Transformers, Rock'em Sock'em Robots(Real Steel)... what's next? Toss
Across? Battling Tops? Maybe they'll make a sci-fi flick about silly
putty. (I wonder if producers read these things to get ideas)And the dialog was pretty bad. I was trying to remember one particular
line that was really bad but I guess it was so disgusting that it ran
screaming out of my memory. RZA was the absolute worst part of the
whole thing. The Rat in Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles was a better actor
than RZA. Where's Master Po when you need him? I'm not sure why anyone
thinks Rappers make good actors. Anyway, lots of action, some way hot chicks who kick but (always cool,
IMO) AND there will probably be another sequel.If all that sounds like it's worth $10 bucks to you then have at it. I
wait until movies come to the $2 theater and sometimes they aren't even
worth that much.
