1
A truly awful movie

Where to even begin on how bad this movie is? How in the world did they
spend 180 million dollars on this?I assume the word "beyond" refers to the enterprise traveling beyond a
nebula of rocks for the first time. But what a shocker; they're not the
first to do it. Even though the new superior enemy destroys their ship
in seconds, they just find a new ship waiting for them there. On a
hostile planet. Nothing ever feels dangerous in this movie. There's
even a scene where Kirk saves 50 people with a off road motorbike. In
the camp of an enemy who controls a swarm of 500.000 super fast
spaceships. All the characters now seem like one dimensional stereotyped versions
of themselves. Spock spends the whole movie thinking and looking
sideways. Scotty is there to talk Scottish and call everyone Lassie,
even a new female from an alien race he never met before. Doctor McCoy
is never concerned about anything and doesn't seem like he's actually
experiencing anything, not even the near death of his friend Spock.
Many of the lines they speak honestly sounds like gibberish. Kirk is
supposed to be the concerned one. And always looking clean and newly
showered, even after crashing his spaceship in the jungle. All in all,
this crew is not affected by what is actually happening in the movie.The entire story consists of of recycled clichés. The Enterprise goes
to a new planet, but there's a bad guy there who looks like a lizard,
has a dark voice, enjoys violence and wears black armor. Never seen
that before. The CGI looks poor. And everything is so fantastic in scale, the movie
doesn't even begin to explain how any of it works. The mass destruction
seen here is on a scale nobody can relate to. There's simply no logic
in this movie. The audience is just forced to accept that someone can
have a fistfight standing in the ceiling 5 kilometers above ground on
an artificial planet. I can't believe JJ Abrams is involved in this. The Star Trek series
featured many stupid episodes that didn't make any sense in terms of
the main story. But the purpose of these movies was to take the best
the series had to offer and make it even better. Raise some of the
central questions of exploring life, technology and space. Instead Star
Trek Beyond is just a generic dumb action orgie.
