4
Woman on the verge of a nervous collapse

Predictable, obvious, conventional, trite, and stereotypical are words
that came to mind as I seethed, mumbling in my seat, watching a film
that was "acclaimed" by many critics. Unfortunately this was another
Woody Allen writing and directorial disappointment and that makes me
angry. I really wanted Allen to embrace me with sensitivity and
conviction; to make me laugh and cry, to create characters that were
distinctive and demonstrated individuality like he did in the 1999 film
SWEET AND LOWDOWN. Instead BLUE JASMINE, which ostensibly speaks about
class divide, pretension, financial immorality, and the fickleness of
relationships, focuses on a woman named Jasmine played by Cate
Blanchett who is in the midst of having a nervous breakdown and moves
in with her "lower-class" sister in San Francisco.Cate Blanchett's performance as Jasmine, who had been married to a very
wealthy, Bernie Madoff-type businessman Hal (a smooth and slick Alec
Baldwin,) living a life as the beautiful Park Avenue socialite wife
entertaining, doing charity work, and filling her time with Yoga and
Pilates is vapidly inconsistent. We are subject to constant flashbacks
of her former luxurious life then, contrasted with her penniless life
"now," – before and after the collapse of her seemingly "idyllic
high-style" marriage. We are made privy very earlier in the movie, to
Jasmine's histrionic and melodramatic fall from grace. Her excessive
drinking, her devouring pills with an avariciously bumbling urgency,
all dramatic gestures that imply desperation were repeated over and
over again - a view of psychic disintegration that was hackneyed and
tired – a picture of nervous collapse pigeonholed into burlesque.Personally I did not give a damn about any of the characters...except
Jasmine's sweet, good- natured sister Ginger – a natural and beautiful
performance by Sally Hawkins who picks "working class" guys as her
partners – her taste in men being the opposite of her arrogant
condescending sister. Many of the reviewers of BLUE JASMINE spoke about
a Tennessee William's Streetcar Named Desire subtext to this film – I
think that interpretation is superficial, and another indication of
Woody Allen's trivialization of the "rank and file" laborer. Just
because Bobby Cannavale (who is an actor I loved in THE STATION MASTER)
wears cutoff tee-shirts, is muscled up with slicked back hair and has a
temper, does not make him Stanley Kowalski; or a fragile Cate Blanchett
descending into her interior world of the past, make her Blanche Du
Bois. Instead I saw Woody Allen propagating a boilerplate view of class
through dialects and visuals that were imitative and unimaginative.Relationships between siblings, heedless gratification of desire, and
the cynical view of the battle of the sexes are always prevalent in
Woody Allen's films. I hope I get to see one soon which is genuine,
fresh and authentic. I thought BLUE JASMINE might fulfill those
criteria– I was dispiritedly mistaken.
