1
I never write reviews but I have to make an exception for this one...

I thought the movie would be good - 7.1 rating and excellent actors.
And that's actually all, which is good about the movie. So unrealistic
and playing the lowest nature of human being, I have actually left the
movie theater sad and disgusted with the fact how many people actually
cheered out loud during the movie.a) A plane makes it to D.C. before being intercepted by two raptors,
which get shot down and after that only ONE raptor is sent to deal with
the threat. b) Disregarding the fact that half of the army would
already be all over D.C. when the two jets got shot down, the
terrorists are now advancing towards the White House on foot - Humvees
and choppers are sent out from across the river and the humvees get
there first??? c) all the SS agents just run toward the bullets d)
president gets captured and the U.S. chain of command will let the
nation be destroyed just because of one man e) WH doesn't use the super
secret weapon to defend the premises but somehow the terrorists are
able to operate it??? f) Blowing up unarmed ICBMs will destroy the
nation??? g) At the end when Butler calls in that they are okay, it
takes them 5 mins to get out of the building and no one is going in???And two things are absolutely worst: 1) Cheap and cheesy nationalism
that should actually make people beware is still working to stir up
some pretty strong emotions, especially among those whose necks are two
feet wide and heads cleanly shaved. I was absolutely horrifies how many
people stop thinking when a flag above WH has bullet holes in it and
start punching the air, yelling and all together start behaving like
animals... It's actually pretty scary, no wonder some people were
scared of garrison state after the Cold War started. We are not far
from it today... 2) I wonder who REALLY paid for this crap. So cheesy
and appealing to the lowest animal nature of dumb people portraying
North Korea as new terrorist threat??? (To be fair in one part of the
movie they had to say that people in Middle East were celebrating when
seeing the WH captured) How lame and pathetic is this... Yes let's go
to war with every single country that doesn't necessarily love the
United States. At least from the audience I had to sit in, you would
probably get good 50 volunteers for the first lines.Absolutely appalling and scary experience.
