7
The Visuals will have you say "Holy Pudding". The story will have you say, "Ehh"

Robbie K here bringing you another review on the latest movies to hit
the theater. This weekend we start off with another iteration about the
famous boy who flies, fights off pirates, and flirts with mermaids.
That's right I'm talking about Peter Pan. Over the decades we've
experienced numerous spins on the tale, and yet I can't recall too many
films portraying Peter's origins. Well hold on to your hats folks,
because director Joe Wright has brought his tale to the silver screen
entitled Pan. Let's start with the story. We know all the classic elements of Peter
Pan, but perhaps you have questioned the origins of our title
character. Pan's tale dives into the impoverished England, once more
strolling down the Oliver Twist orphan path as the opening of Peter's
tale. The origin lacks much in terms of originality, but bypasses gross
details to get to the meat of the story. Once Peter is abducted to the
ageless Neverland, the tale begins to liven up. Pan forgoes a lot of
the character development and emotional buildup for superficial
thrills. Peter's relationship with a lot of characters evolves rapidly,
from simple hellos to becoming their wards. Fans will certainly not
suffer a drawn out plot, but may not like the rapid and abrupt scene
transitions. I give Wright his props for adding some darker moments
while maintaining the kid friendly environment, but I felt he was a
little to ADD in organizing the story. Peter's journey reaches many
impasses, however they blow over without much struggle with our good
guys able to overpower their oppressors with ease. The characters that are part of this plot were also lacking. Acting
wise I give them a round of applause, each member certainly doing their
best to breathe life into their characters. Hugh Jackman as Blackbeard
has the gruff and ruthlessness of a pirate Captain, but soon becomes
annoying with his constant screaming and pompous braggart. I did enjoy
the use of metal songs as his anthem, a nice touch of modern metal.
Garrett Hedlund as Hook captures the classic voice, but his look and
presence comes off more Midwestern desperado than future pirate. Levi
Miller plays the adolescent Peter quite well, nailing the devious,
adventurous, and vulnerable sides of Pan while keeping everything
balanced. However it is Rooney Mara who takes first place, bringing a
nice balance of wonder, courage, and emotion as the warrior princess
Tiger Lily, minus a few flat moments. Simplistic story and characters aside, Pan's action is surprisingly
higher intensity than I expected. The opening chase between pirate ship
and plane is quite exhilarating with all the stunts, explosions, and
elements of a World War II movie. From there the action remains dynamic
as our characters navigate the various hazards of the world,
interjecting combat and comedy to keep it entertaining. Again these
conflicts sometimes end without much of a struggle, and a bit
anticlimactic at times. Still I appreciate Wright slightly breaking the
PG mold and adding some quality edge to the mix. I warn parents there
are a few moments that might seem a tad too mature (i.e. executions),
so evaluate your children's psyche before attending this film. Finally the best quality of Pan for me was the setting. Wright's team
designed a world that is majestic enough to have you say "Holy
Pudding". The jungle is ominous, filled with deep foliage that offers
shelter from the pirates, while also concealing ominous predators.
Pirate ships are decorated to mirror their "helmsmen", such as
Blackbeard's ship being cold and lifeless to personify the merciless
man he is. And mermaid lagoon, while not as passive as it was in the
cartoon, still held the serenity, especially once the gorgeous glowing,
(CGI enhanced) mermaids who glow showed up. Even the costumes help pull
you into the moment, the pirates having styles that span from
traditional buccaneers to more formal, butler wareokay not everything
makes sense. Fortunately the tribal people bring about the hunter
atmosphere, blending multiple cultures into their attire and dwellings.
While certainly not the most impressive, Pan's world has the color,
whimsy, and magic that captured all our hearts years ago. Overall Pan is not the best movie to "soar" into theaters. However, it
offers a good, kid friendly movie to entertain until the holiday season
arrives. It's a fun thrilling ride for all ages that lays foundation
for other movies, (either existing or new), while recapturing the
moments you grew up with. Unfortunately the story just wasn't as put
together as I hoped it would be, or as thrilling as the trailers made
it out to be. Worth a trip to theater? Only for the special effects and
setting can I say it is worth a theater trip, but your money is best
saved for other films. My scores are: Adventure/Family/Fantasy: 7.0 Movie Overall: 6.0
