3
I F*ng love science

Scarlett Johansson proves beyond a doubt that she is able to carry the
lead actress role in this sci-fi action flick. The camera work and
narrative ambiance starts off marvelously. But around twenty minutes
into the movie everything starts falling apart as relentless and
repetitive force-feeding of pseudo-scientific and underdeveloped
philosophical gibberish is applied in a sad attempt to legitimize the
developing story line. If you manage to swallow the entirety these
factual misnomers you may suffer from having no education or sense of
rational thought and may also be eligible to blissfully enjoy the
ensuing turn of events. Have you ever felt at risk of becoming dumber by the process of
watching a movie? I regularly enjoy movies that violate laws of
physics. However, it is imperative that the movie's setting allows for
that to happen. Lucy doesn't. The parallel story line employs Professor
Norman (Morgan Freeman) as the scientific genius alibi. If you pay
attention to his "lectures" you may notice this is not science class
but rather something at the crossroads of a pseudoscience, scientology
and self-motivational course. At this point I should probably disclaim
that I am a molecular biologist by profession and proceed to tell you
that I was genuinely outraged by the audacious amounts of ignorance
displayed throughout this movie. Sitting at the theater this evening, my brain leapt in and out of sync
with the movie due to the constant realism glitches occurring under
false pretenses. For some reason I kept thinking of "The Doors of
Perception" by Aldous Huxley in which he subjectively describes the
immediate psychological effects upon ingesting mescaline and LSD. Such
psychoactive and hallucinogenic drugs actually work by switching on
cerebral neuronal pathways that by default (and apparently by good
rights) are switched off. This goes to prove the point that cerebral
activity in no way correlates with attainment of super-human powers.The pharmacological effects that the fictional drug in the movie exerts
on Lucy (Scarlett Johansson) is irreconcilable with everything in
medicine and the story line is shamelessly based on these discrepancies
set in action as visualized by unlimited CGI artistic freedom: Wouldn't
the sensation of pain be expected to be augmented to excruciating
levels following a proposed 1000% increase of cerebral activity? Care
to elaborate on the accompanying moral deprivation that makes it OK to
kill or help people entirely on random, but first and foremost makes
her really narcissistic and sadistic? If Einstein dropped his pen,
wouldn't it still fall to the ground; Why shouldn't laws of physics
apply to someone who is allegedly more intelligent or aware? How can
increased intelligence allow Lucy – possessing no prior concepts of
cell biology or drug metabolism– to figure out what is happening to her
in such detail? Why were the internment mafia thugs specifically
instructed not to kick Lucy in the lower abdomen, considering the
surgical procedure that had just been performed for the sole purpose of
drug trafficking? How can Lucy possibly benchmark her cerebral capacity
as a percentage? How can the final scenes of the movie where Lucy ad
libitum creates matter and baffles the professorial board with some
senselessly uttered line of thought be justified in any conceivable
way? Omnipotence, dinosaurs and a black hole USB flash drive to top it
off: are you serious?The movie clearly begs the question: what is human and which aspects
and ideals of human nature are worth cultivating. But how can you
honestly care at this point as you contemplate whether to risk a
cerebral meltdown or run for the closest theater exit?
