7
Cute Love Story Detracted By Hasty Developed Past

Ever wonder what its like not to age? I know I have, but I never can
grasp all the factors that come about with immortality, especially in
terms of love and relationships. Well my friends, we have the good
fortune to get movies to give us a glimpse, and this weekend it is in
the form of the Age of Adaline. This romantic drama has some potential
to be an interesting romance story, but one must heed caution when
watching trailers. So let's get started on this review shall we. When I said interesting, I really meant it, as Age of Adaline is a
unique story that centers on immortality. Our heroine doesn't drink
some mystical potion, or undergoes some futuristic operation, but is
somehow mutated by a rogue lightning bolt striking the river. All of
this is explained in the first 10 minutes, in a hasty montage that sums
up her life, which while time efficient left me a little robbed. I
didn't want them to take forever, but a gradual build up of her life
pre accident would have given this tale some more depth. Oh well it
means we get to the romance aspect of the story faster. This film's
relationships were a bit awkward for me, and a bit hastily developed at
first. Her main romance goes nowhere due to fear, and only a few cute
dates give us any hope something will happen. But then movie magic hits
like lightning and expedites the romance to warp speed. Regardless of how fast we get to it though, the romance in this movie
is not the greatest. Sure it has its cute moments, emphasizing
creativity and thoughtfulness in dating, with a little historical twist
in it. There is some heartfelt, overemotional dialogue thrown in to
feign love, but this movie didn't sell me in their relationship.
However, Adaline's past runs interference into the relationship, and
takes precedence over her life at hand. Fortunately what love we did
see was not portrayed as superficial sex that many modern movies like
to show. The movie's main focus instead is about living life and pushing past
your fears, especially ones addressing the concept of life. Age of
Adaline has some really depressing moments and left me feeling down in
the dumps. Many of the problems she flees from may get in your head,
but do provide some good food for thought and philosophical
discussions. Yet you will see some overdramatic, spanned out plot lines
in this movie that start to grow stale. Story aside, the editing of this movie is decent. Despite the 100
minute running tme, they still had some issues in terms of pacing and
extra scenes. I felt the film cuts through a lot of Adaline's history,
choosing to relive her moments via hastily done flashbacks and narrator
monologues. Other times it drags on an issue, moving like molasses down
a hill to get to the conclusion. As for extra scenes, well a few morbid
parts could have been snipped out of the final cut, or at least
replaced with some happier moments in the grand scheme of things.
Despite all the extra fluff, one consistency is the camera work, which
captures the emotion of our characters to illicit the intended
response. Each age is well designed, makeup, costumes, and scenery all
well combined to bring the world to life. However the acting may be the component that this movie relies on the
most. Blake Lovely, I'm sorry, Lively was indeed a beautiful addition
to this movie in both acting and physical qualities. She carried a
pristine poise that mimicked the personalities of the attitudes back
then, and yet she was somehow humble. Lively shed a good amount of
tears in this installment and put her somber emotions to good use,
though I do wish they had given her character a broader emotional
spectrum. Her beauty helps complete the picture and the outfits her
wardrobe department designed will distract many from her monotone
character. As for the other actors they do their parts well, but they
are primarily supportive roles surrounding Adaline's story. Michiel
Huisman does the job of a persistent romantic well. He's got that nice
guys charm and humor that makes him likable, but he is a bit of a bore
in terms of romantic interests. His backstory is flatter than a sheet
of paper, and his struggles are practically absent in this tale,
overshadowed by another relationship stuck in Adaline's head. As for
Ford, his acting is just as strong as ever, but his role was limited in
this tale, again constantly interrupted by chaotic slew of Adaline's
mess. Age of Adaline is a good drama that has a nice change of pace from the
sea of mundane plots this genre has recently taken. Adaline's journey
is interesting and emotional, but the romance aspect fell through for
me. In addition the tale wasn't the most exciting thing, and combined
with a depressing plot, was not a fun trip for me this weekend. Is it
worth a trip to theater? Can't say it was, but might be good for a
girl's night out soiree. My scores for Age of Adaline are: Drama/Romance: 7.0 Movie Overall: 6.5
