4
The Long Anticipated Set Up Movie

The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 1 stars Jennifer Lawrence, Josh
Hutcherson, Liam Hemsworth, Woody Harrelson, Donald Sutherland,Philip
Seymour Hoffman, and Julianne Moore. Just to get something straight I
feel splitting a movie into two parts is dumb and studios do it just
for more money and I find it irritating. Not every finale of a young
adult novel needs to be two parts. That being said "How is Mockingjay
part 1? " Is it a big step up from Catching fire? Frankly its pretty
boring and basically a huge waste of time. Nothing really interesting
happens in this movie. Bonding moments that don't need to happen
between characters that feel pretty forced. Some dialogue and extra
propaganda speeches to make the run time just a little bit longer. More
characters that were throw in your face with really no character
development at all. Katniss doesn't grow as a character from the last
movie. Besides shooting an arrow at a jet which is shown in the trailer
all Katniss really does is Propaganda Commercials and cry over things.
Also all of the other characters that you already know you don't really
care about them at all throughout this movie either. Really the only
person you care about is Katniss kinda. Shaky cam has made a return
from the first movie and isn't that why the change of director happened
for the second movie? Wasn't the point to get rid of all that? I guess
not. A couple of cool moments happen but that doesn't really help much.
I mean the best parts of this movie were promoted in the trailer. Don't
get me wrong this isn't an awful movie it's more of a very long trailer
for Mockingjay part 2. What I did enjoy was all of the propaganda parts
which was a nice change from all the killing in the first two movies
and the last 15 minutes. A camera crew follows Katniss around to make
propaganda commercials and then the capitol will fire back with their
own propaganda stuff. It's a political fight. Honestly the propaganda
concepts was really the only thing keeping me awake. I have to be
honest I started to dose off a couple of times. The last 15 minutes it
starts to build up and things start going down that makes it feel like
the actual movie is fixing to start and it just ends. Kind of in the
way The Desolation of Smaug did as well. Now you have to wait another
year for the movie that you wanted to see in the first place. In the
end i was really bored throughout this movie. This is just a waste of
time to get more money out of the franchise. Even if your a fan of the
novel wait till next November to see this movie so you can go see part
2 right after and pretend like part 1 doesn't exist.
