7
Not that bad

This movie has gotten sh*t from a lot of reviewers. Still I have no
clue why. It wasn't that bad. Sure, there's the recycling gag thingy
people complain about, there's potty humor and swears. But this is the
thing; it's not intended to be a classy, heartfelt comedy. It's just a
very funny and immature slapstick comedy. It's clear that Seth
McFarlanes humor isn't classy, clever or original. However, he does
manage to create a somewhat funny movie that can be enjoyed. Now, I
like stupid, silly movies. I don't like cleverly written comedies. So,
If you are a fan of Family Guy or Ted's humor, you will probably like
this movie.A lot of reviewers tend to review this movie as like it is trying to be
an Oscar movie. It isn't. All the actors did a great job (even the
small rolls), the jokes weren't all over the place & it was actually
quite enjoyable. They're having fun, we're having fun. Nothing wrong
with that.I don't understand why people go into movies like these expecting them
to be some kind of comical masterpiece when the trailer was clear
enough about it just being another random & dumb slapstick comedy.
People are stupid enough to go watch it knowing what type of movie this
is and expecting it to be something it's not.So bottom line: If you like stupid & silly comedies with racist jokes &
stereotypes, go watch this one. If you are a typical fan of the humor
in Family Guy, South Park etc you will enjoy. There's plenty of
different kinds of jokes in here. None of them classy, but funny.
Toilet humor, foul mouths, racist stereotypes, offensive parodies & a
few references that will be totally unexpected. If you're a fan of
cleverly written scripts & wants to watch a classy comedy film; well,
this movie is a total waste of time for you. I watched this expecting
it to be really dumb, but enjoyable and it surpassed my expectations.
The plot is simple, the jokes aren't clever but funny, the actors are
doing a more than well job. I couldn't ask for more. This one deserves
at least a 7 star rating. I found this movie much funnier than TED,
which also was pretty dumb.I rarely listen to what reviewers say about a movie before watching it
first. You should do the same and judge for yourself. I just don't
think it deserves the hate.
