8
Definitely Fast and Definitely Furious

I'm not to fond a franchises that don't when it's time to hang it up
and let it's running time leave a good memory in our brains but for
some reason, the studios want to keep this franchise going but I must
say I'm glad they haven't because Fast and Furious 5 was pretty dope
and now I can say Fast and Furious 6 is just as equally amazing. I was
actually excited to see this movie and believe me when I say, I wasn't
disappointed in the least. I'm an action movie junkie, and this film
had plenty of it. I've been enjoying the F&F transformation from being
a movie about illegal street racing and stealing car parts, to heists,
drug lords, undercover agents, the cartel and now, even terrorism. There was plenty of car chases, hand to hand combat, shoot outs and
even a breathtaking ending scene hat involved an airport, a huge
aircraft and a takeoff runway that was definitely awesome to watch.
Doing six films would definitely bring the cast together, and you can
see their chemistry on screen, especially between Tyrese, Ludicrous,
the Asian dude and the south American beauty. There comedic banter was
funny. I was pleasantly surprised with our antagonist, Luke Evans. I'm
used to seeing him play the hero and aiding the good side, so seeing
him as the bad guy was different but it worked. Not only is a beyond
sexy with that shaved head but it totally worked. My favorite scene was
with Riley (from Haywire) chasing Michelle Rodriguez through the subway
and Tyrese and Asian dude's character chasing the other bad guy through
the subway. My only pet peeve was the dialogue. You would think that after six
movies, the writers could come up with more realistic things for the
cast to say instead writing all these cheesy one liners that we've been
hearing in 90% of all action movies for the past twenty years. Some of
the lines really made me cringe and I had to whisper to myself "really
Justin Lin?! That's the best you got?!" But the cheesy one liners were
overlooked by a few unpredictable plot twists that helped the story
move along.But overall I give this movie an 8 because it gives you everything an
action movies is supposed to offer. Believable bad ass heroes and
villains, car chases, big guns, explosions, shoot outs, hand to hand
combat, sexy ass kicking women, beautiful cars, sexy men, funny
moments, an unforgettable ending action sequence, and of course a post
credits scene that makes you anxious for the seventh film. I would
definitely recommend this film.
