8
Back on the battlefield with Mel...

I was lucky enough to sneak into a cast & crew screening at the Newtown
Dendy cinema. I thought 10.30AM on a Sunday was too early for a Mel
Gibson movie, that I might be in for something along the lines of the
heavy-handedness of THE PASSION OF THE Christ, and the adrenaline
pumped brilliance of APOCALYPTO.I was proved wrong because after the first thirty minutes I wasn't sure
if this was a Mel Gibson film when I was placed into a comfort zone,
with its melodrama set in a small Virginia town during the Forties, a
schmaltzy romance, and the cliché violent drunken father who survived a
brutal war. The performances were maybe a little let down by the clumsy
dialogue, but all directed safely with a natural sense of storytelling.By the 2nd act, I was put on high alert in the military training with
our protagonist, Desmond Doss (Andrew Garfield who I at first felt was
wrongly cast, but he really came through in the end). It was here when
the true purpose of the story began to evolve, that of Doss' moral and
internal conflict with using a gun! What he had to endure and stand-up
for was a courage I greatly admired. It was also in this phase of the
film that the dialogue and characters began to shine. Maybe it was the
introduction of Vince Vaughn's character. We all know how Vaughn is
notorious in ad-libbing, and it seemed to help because the other actors
bounced off it well.Now the story had me in their pocket because by the 3rd act I was with
our protagonist and his platoon when they got to the battlefield
graveyard of Hacksaw Ridge. You thought the horrific situation in WE
WERE SOLDIERS was brutal, well this was captured so vividly that you
felt you were there. It was almost on par with the brilliance of GAME
OF THRONES; BATTLE OF THE BASTARDS.Now I felt I was in a Mel Gibson film. As with Braveheart, the battle
scenes in Hacksaw Ridge didn't hold back. Maybe a notch better because
of today's CGI (and I didn't even notice the effects!). The scenes were
unflinching, haunting and in your face. Possibly showing you the true
horror of war. Definitely not for the squeamish.The religious aspect of the film was relevant to the story, so as a
non-believer I thought it was an integral part of the protagonist and
had to be told, so it didn't bother me as much.Overall the technical aspect of the film was brilliant, but then again
I didn't really notice it because I was too distracted by the story and
the characters, and when that occurs, I know the film has succeeded.
