3
Disappointing tall tale, dressed up as pseudo philosophy

I found this film ultimately unsatisfying. Granted, it is visually stunning, but that in itself doesn't justify
the running time. I found myself wondering what the point of the film
was at all. If I'm right,it is a pseudo mystical / philosophical propaganda piece,
which suggests that it is better to hold tight to a fantastical,
improbable story of triumph over adversity (ie your faith in God,
whoever that is), if it gives you hope and gets you through life –
rather than to endure a harsh, unpalatable reality. The whole film is geared up to asking the question of the viewer –
which do you prefer, the outlandish fantasy or the grim truth? I'm not
sure it's even answerable, unless you have a faith which you want to
reaffirm. So when the question came, I thought "Is that it? Is that
what you've been waiting to pose"? The majority of the film covers a boy's struggle to survive a
shipwreck, cast away on a small lifeboat in the company of a Bengal
tiger. The story is told in retrospective by the boy (Pi) as an adult.
It is clear to the viewer that this is a tall tale, from Pi's general
style of story telling (a colourful childhood, an eccentric
swimming-obsessed uncle). We can tell that his style is somewhat
unreliable. Therefore I didn't exactly buy into the survival story. I
wasn't rooting for him and there was no emotional attachment to the
character, in the way there would have been if this was a straight
forward recounting of what happened. What I was thinking was "when is this part going to end, so that I can
get on with finding out what's really going on in the film"? By that, I
don't mean that I was particularly interested in the true survival
story, which when it came was pretty grim (although that might have
been a more interesting film!). I really wanted to know why the film
maker thought it was so important to take us on this fantastical
journey. When the answer came, in all its semi-philosophical shallowness, it
wasn't worth the wait.
