1
I wouldn't watch it again even if I were paid to do it.

I was so angry after watching this movie that I had to make an IMDb
account just to write this review. This is HANDS DOWN the WORST Disney
movie I have ever watched. Why is it getting so much praise? Beats me,
but it seems that today's moviegoers are extremely easily pleased. I,
on the other hand, am embarrassed for Disney for having released such a
terrible movie. I am even MORE embarrassed for the Academy Awards which
presented this terrible movie with TWO Oscars. Do people even have
standards anymore? The animation for this movie was wonderful (but so is every other
Disney movie's), but there was absolutely nothing else about this movie
that was enjoyable. The worst part of the movie was the plot twist,
which was not only unnecessary, but extremely cynical. Why did the
directors feel the need to put down other Disney princesses who fell in
love? It's not like they were bad romances. Prince Hans was probably my
favorite character (especially after finding out that he was a
villain). He was a terrible villain and the twist seemed like it was
put in just so that Anna could end up with Kristoff without having to
dump Hans. Well, I say, if Hans wants to rule Arendelle, LET HIM. He's
a much more caring and compassionate ruler than both Elsa and Anna. The
townspeople haven't seen either of them in years and both of them
desert the kingdom and leave it in the hands of a stranger, without a
second thought. Meanwhile, Hans hands out blankets to the people and
treats them kindly. I know if I had been a commoner living in
Arendelle, I would've been so disappointed and upset that Elsa and Anna
came back.Speaking of Anna, that girl got on my nerves to no end. What was with
the outright awkwardness? I understand having a slightly awkward
princess (like Rapunzel) but Anna's character felt forced. I don't know
a single person who could relate to her level of awkwardness. Plus,
that girl is so boy-crazy, it's absolutely ridiculous. What other
Disney princess dates two different men in the course of two or three
days? Absolutely disgusting. This is such an accurate reflection of
modern society's morals. Disney princess movies are supposed to be
FAIRY TALES. Of course, in reality, girls probably aren't going to find
their dream guy on their first date, but what's wrong with portraying
that ideal in a FAIRY TALE? If Disney is really trying to make their
movies imitate real life by creating an evil Prince Charming, then
shouldn't they also create a movie about a tone-deaf princess who CAN'T
sing? What about an acne-riddled princess? Disney princess movies
portray an idealized version of life for kids, which is why they're so
enjoyable. Stop being so cynical. Unfortunately, I ended up paying to
watch a movie that ended up being about how you shouldn't marry a guy
you just met, because that's definitely a moral that we didn't already
know (* rolls eyes *). I don't think any person who watched old Disney
princess movies ever thought, "Hey, you know, I really think I should
marry this person I just met because it worked out so well for Snow
White!" The moral about loving your family was sweet, but could have
been done without making fun of romantic love. And, ughhh, the songs. Songs are what Disney movies are known for, yet
the songs in this movie ended up being mediocre at best. They were so
repetitive. Blah blah blah love. Blah blah blah door. Blah blah blah
gate. Blah blah blah anymore. I feel like those words were in every.
single. freaking. song. The voice acting, for the most part, was
decent. Anna (voiced by Kristen Bell) had a surprisingly princess-like
voice. Prince Hans' voice was equally wonderful (if not more so).
Unfortunately, Elsa's voice did not match her animated character AT
ALL. //END RANT//
