1
If you can think intelligently, this movie is not right for you.

I really do not understand how this movie is being hailed as the "best
superhero movie of the year" or the DCEU comeback to Marvel. This
movie's script is terrible, especially the ending, which makes
absolutely no sense (I will explain in the spoilers portion below.) It
also doesn't really do anything to develop the characters. When they do
take a minute to say something about someone or add a little character
into themselves, POOF! They're gone, not likely to return. I can't
really blame the actors and actresses here for anything because they
try to work with what they got. Unfortunately, the script does nothing
to help them along. That makes the dialog bland and cliché and drags
the movie down even more.Regarding the technical effects, they were OK. The CGI in the fight
scenes had some really awkward looking shots, which made them look
really manufactured. This is especially true in some of the sliding
attacks. I almost wish that they utilized wire-fu/Hong Kong effects a
little more in these types of movies as it looks more graceful and less
"weird".Overall, I say skip this one. There are better superhero movies out
there and coming soon. Spending your money on this will just make you
wish you had your money back afterwards.--Stop here if you do not want to read SPOILERS-- --Stop here if you do
not want to read SPOILERS--OK, let's get to why the ending sucks so bad. If you understand how
anything works, you will instantly disbelieve the decision of Steve
Trevor to blow himself up in the plane. It makes absolutely no sense
other than to anger Wonder Woman, which was already done with the shell
hitting Veld and the flashback Ares shows her. Also, there are many
ways that Steve could have resolved the situation without killing
himself. First, he is in Belgium, so when the plane takes off, he could
simply fly out into the water, drop the bombs into the ocean, then land
the plane, either back in Belgium or in England. Second, they could
shoot out the tires or the engines on the plane, making it impossible
to fly. Third, he could simply radio the Allies from the plane, or tell
the other guys to call (they did this earlier) and land in France. Any
of these would have worked as he had control of the plane.The second issue I had is the gas itself. They spout on about how
blowing up the plane will effectively make a 50 sq mi. gas cloud, but
not a minute or two later, the factory and everything around it is
being destroyed. I'm sure there were still a few bombs left in there,
yet everyone seemed just fine afterwards. Also, why in the world were
guards walking around with gas masks when the gas was inside the bombs
already? They drilled it into our heads about how the gas masks
wouldn't work against it, yet the guards still decided to put them on?
It's just dumb. Add in the fact that mustard gas is a blister agent,
with no one in the town showing blisters, as well as the fact that they
magically produce tons of this stuff in less than 24 hours for the big
bomber and it is stupidly laughable.What gets me the most about these logic issues are that it's the
non-superhero stuff that they messed up on. You had two people (gods)
flying and fighting in the air during the climax of this movie and,
truth be told, that was more acceptable and believable to the story
than a pilot getting into a bomber and blowing himself up. Honestly,
skip this one.
