8
Serviceable Tearjerker - and That's a Good Thing

While it loses a couple of points for not being a masterpiece of
cinema, the relationship between the title character and her dog is a
masterpiece of emotional manipulation and will have most dog lovers
reaching for the tissues. I am both a cat and dog lover, having grown up with both. Each species
requires a different set of expectations. A dog is usually willing to
meet a human more than half-way, whereas a human must usually meet a
cat more than half-way, but there are exceptions in both directions.
This movie is about a somewhat difficult, aggressive dog that is only
able to bond with relatively few handlers. Once a bond is created,
however, the relationship between a particular animal and a particular
human can defy expectations.The poster for the movie says, "Based on a true story". Someday I'd
like to see a promo that says, "*Loosely* based on a true story", since
that is usually the truth. According to the movie, which begins in the
early 2000s, Megan Leavey is a 20-year-old drifting through life in a
small Upstate New York town. She escapes by joining the United States
Marines and manages to complete basic training but still does not know
what she wants to do with her life. After committing an infraction, she
is punished by being sent to clean out the kennels of the camp's canine
unit. There she connects with the idea of becoming a combat dog
handler. Turning her life around, she takes the initiative to meet the
qualifications.Once admitted to the program, she is forced to start at the bottom,
even having to "lead" a metal can on a leash around the yard because
there is no dog available for her to work with. Then Rex, one of the
more aggressive dogs, bites his handler so badly that he can no longer
work with the dog. Leavey is ordered to take over with Rex. Despite
Rex's aggressiveness, he ends up bonding with her so thoroughly that
human and canine become inseparable, leading to the drama (and the
Kleenex) when the pair are inevitably forced apart.The dogs are trained both to take down bad guys and sniff out
explosives. The character Sgt. Andrew Dean (Tom Felton) informs the dog
handlers that the IEDs (improvised explosive devices) that they and
their dogs will encounter in Iraq (circa 2006) contain ingredients that
the dogs will not have smelled before. The movie does not go into how
this problem is remedied.In a male-dominated field, Leavey is the only woman we see. (We hear of
another female dog handler at one point but don't see her.) The rules
are that women handlers are usually assigned to checkpoint duty, which
involves searching people and vehicles for explosives. The male
handlers and their dogs go on more dangerous missions, scouting ahead
of convoys to sniff out roadside bombs. Inevitably, there comes a day
when a handler and dog are needed for a mission and no one else is
available; so Leavey and Rex go and perform heroically, but they become
separated. For the rest of the movie, Leavey tries to get back with her animal
friend, even going to her state's U.S. Senator and filing a petition to
get the military to let her adopt Rex. For every happy ending to such
quests, there must be many more tragedies. As is pointed out more than
once by Gunnery Sgt. Martin (Common), the dogs do not belong to the
handlers, they belong to the military, and the military decides whether
the handlers can adopt the dogs they've worked with or if anyone can.
It is often necessary to wait until the dog has completed his useful
service to the military, and dogs may have to work with other handlers
in the meantime. Aside from all that, dogs don't live that long anyway.
(Rex's dates are 2001-2012.)There are also plenty of human connections in this dog story. Leavey
falls in love with another dog handler and gets a supportive pep talk
from her father that belies the impression given by Leavey's narration
that no one in her family is supportive. That seems to apply to
everyone but her father. Kate Mara is beautiful and touching as the titular dog handler. (If you
watch carefully, the real Megan Leavey appears as one of the female
drill instructors.) Edie Falco and Bradley Whitford are equally
effective in supporting roles as bad parent and good parent
respectively, although Whitford, as well as Will Patton, as Leavey's
stepdad, go so deeply into their characters that I did not recognize
either of them during the movie. Common plays the tough but caring
"gunny" who lays out the rules that put obstacles in Leavey's path,
even though he is privately sympathetic to her quest to adopt Rex.Everything about this movie is professional, and, fortunately, even
though the film is manipulative by the numbers, the unique aspects of
the true story impose some degree of originality. The dog performances must have been a particularly daunting part of
making this movie, but they seem to come off flawlessly. It is
impressive that credit for the part of "Rex" is attributed to only one
dog, Varco. I had expected that several dogs would need to be used to
do so many tricks. On the whole, I am satisfied. I got from this movie exactly the kind of
feel-good sentimentalism I expected and wanted.
