10
Riotously hilarious, sugary sweet, absolutely adorable and most of all marvelously miniontastic!

I saw Despicable Me 2 in the cinema and when i left i did not like it
all that much. If i do not take to a film on the first watch then i am
unlikely to change my opinion on subsequent views. This film is one of
the rare exceptions. I have many 'perhaps' reasons of not liking it the
first time from spoilers to mood changes. Well that in neither here nor
there. I decided to see it just to pass time after a strenuous day at
college followed by work. And i was blown away. Then i saw it again
yesterday and it was even better. It has its goal set out from the very start. It is family entertainment
in and out. And great family entertainment. It is contemporary ingenuity coupled with zany cartoony fantasy to
produce a feature that is so much fun and so exciting. It is the first
animated feature in a long time to move away from serious or emotion
filled animation and instead aim for the imaginative wild completely
unrealistic feel and fun of the cartoons of yore. That is a great thing
as it feels like something new and in this case new is awesome. I adore
emotion filled animation but sometimes you just need to smile and laugh
and laugh some more with crazy comedic toon antics and this film
provides that. The animation is so colorful and delightful, so pleasing
to the eye in its adorableness. Whoever imagined the minions needs to be awarded a medal. They are the
most adorable, most cute, most sweet, most pure laugh and smile
inducing creations to grace animation in a long time. They made me
laugh out wildly and smile all through the film until my cheeks were
hurting and i felt like bursting with pure happiness. They are just fun
and amazing. Oh and they sing too, hilariously.The films posters said as their tagline "The Spy who Lover Her'. An
obvious reference to the James Bond flick, The Spy Who Loved Me. So
obviously espionage and spy craziness is thrown in for a satisfying
story. A story that in fact feels like an updated cartoon version of an
exaggerated James Bond film of the the 70's and 80's. Gru really is an amazing father and his relationship with the girls is
something very precious. I like how family dynamic is explored in this
film. Rarely do we have films of adopted children coming into a new
family dynamic. The last time i saw that type of dynamic was in Tarzan
in 1999 before seeing it once more in the prequel to this film. The
girls are just great in this film. Agnes who is just so adorable wishes
for a mother and Gru sees that and he can see it is saddening her. Gru
is also lonely and goes out into the dating world resulting in
hilarious consequences and sweet surprises.Agent Lucy Wilde, nice pun since she is a huge dose of wild fun, is
just a great character addition that adds to the looniness and
excitement of it all. She is so weird in the best way possible, quirky,
funny and absolutely amazing. She is a remarkable character. And her
vivid personality just adds to the sweetness and captivating charm of
this film. Thus she provides the perfect romantic lead for Gru.Pharell Williams needs applause for the music. The songs are just so
upbeat and fun and in the distinct style of Mr Williams. They are just
so warm and the animated sequences accompanying them are just
marvelous, fun and dream like. Adding to the smiles galore of the film. It is a film for the family and the hilarious humor is divided into
slapstick hilarity that adults too will thoroughly love, some jokes
that will go over kids heads and some really sensational references
mostly aimed at adults such as The Spy Who Loved Me and many more
including other James Bond references and references to Star Wars, The
Lord of the Rings, The Incredibles, Get Smart as well as The Matrix and
Superman among others.I feel this film will become what the film Up is to me. A film so
sweet, so heartwarming and imaginative and so smile inducing that it
will just keep getting more amazing with further views as the years go
by and become an absolute all time favorite. I like that they mix humor with sweet awkward and adorable romance.
Then they stir in the Minion Factor of pure awesomeness. Toss in great
gags and action packed and imaginative excitement. Sprinkle some
sweetness and finally folding in a dollop of fun. A very fun movie for
everyone.
