8
Michael Shannon...The New Face of Evil for Decades To Come

Wow!! What a great feature film for Michael Shannon to display his
range of acting and depth of character portrayal as the real New Jersey
contract (serial?) killer, Richard Kuklinski. Michael Shannon has
played dark brooding characters before such as in his roles in movies
like My Son, My Son, What Have Ye Done, as Brad McCullum, The Man of
Steel as General Zod, and in Take Shelter as the father Curtis
LaForche, of a family who believe his fixation on building an
underground shelter is too extreme. He also plays a dark brooding
character in Boardwalk Empire, whose role evolves from a former
Prohibition Agent on the run after murdering his partner, to the muscle
for a bootlegger. In my watching Michael Shannon evolve as an actor
over the past 20 years of film making, I believe he has found his true
calling in the mobster/crime genre.The supporting cast is very strong with Winona Ryder playing the feeble
Deborah Kuklinski, the wife of Richard Kuklinski. In actual life
Richard and Deborah Kuklinski had two daughters and one son. The movie
however depicts the Kuklinski's as only raising two daughters. The
reason for this deviation in art imitating life may be to reveal a more
softer, caring husband and father Richard Kuklinski, doting over the
three women in his life. Which brings me to what I believe the director
Ariel Vromen was looking to achieve with this film. Ariel Vromen was on
record in stating that after he watched the real Richard Kuklinski HBO
documentary The Iceman Tapes: Conversations With A Killer that he "was
so amazed by the story that he actually liked Richard Kuklinski and had
empathy and sympathy for him." Some movie goers will not appreciate the lack of gratuitous violence
that would have been expected from the real contract killer Richard
Kuklinski. So if you are expecting to see a very violent and physical
Richard Kuklinski character, the director Ariel Vromen has purposely
excluded the violent bloody side of the actual vicious killings of
Richard Kuklinski displayed in other movies like Goodfellas, or the
Godfather. Another strong performance was displayed by Ray Liotta who portrays Roy
DeMeo a loan shark and drug pusher who is trying to control Richard
Kulkinski as his own killing machine. Robert Davi as the middle man
between the real mob bosses and Roy DeMeo who wanted more recognition
from the mob was well done. Davi, only has a few scenes in the movie,
but each of his scenes is significant for the historical references
that unfold. Totally away from the humorous character David Schwimmer
is known for in the TV series Friends, as Ross Geller, Schwimmer does
an excellent job playing Josh Rosenthal, a henchman for mobster Roy
DeMeo. Chris Evans portrayal of Robert Pronger, aka Mr. Freezy, was eerily
real to character and a very creative role. He plays a lone wolf who
mentors the Iceman and exposes Richard Kuklinski on more practical ways
to murder people. Again, the gratuitous violence is very soft core of
these two contract killers who are displayed cutting up body parts and
loading them in to walk in freezers. The movie is less than two hours
long and to capture approximately 30 years of Kuklinski's rampage is
difficult to say the least, so I appreciated that the director chose to
focus on Richard Kuklinski's multiple characters as the devoted family
man. cold blooded killer and lack of emotion or fear, due to flashbacks
of his own early childhood abuse at the hands of his father. Stephen
Dorff plays Richard's brother Joseph, who true to life was serving a
life time term for raping then throwing a teenage girl to her death off
the top of a roof. Richard and his brother Joseph were not close in
real life and when they were both imprisoned in the same cell block
they merely shrugged shoulders towards each other in passing. Why? The
real Richard Kuklinski felt his only true family was his children and
wife, as portrayed by director Arial Vromer's The Iceman.This is a must see for any enthusiasts of the real criminal world true
stories. It boasts a seasoned group of veteran actors who shared the
screen with star Michael Shannon. It is two hours of excellent
historical reference minus much of the bloodshed and violence one can
see in any one of thousands of B movies if this is what you really want
to see.
