1
There really should be laws against doing this to real people!

Even if they like it, like Joy Mangano liked the fictional movie about
herself. None of the stuff in it actually happened to Joy. She was a
huge hit right off the bat, so 3/4's of the movie has her struggling
with added dramatic BS! In her very first appearance she sold more
product than anybody in history! I also hated Cobb, which took all
sorts of poetic license with Cobbs reputation, and was written by a guy
Al Stump, who really, really was a back stabbing scoundrel, just go to
a sports memorabilia show and start throwing his name around and
prepare to get screamed at by the tens of thousands of people Al Stump
screwed over with fake stuff! Here's the problem, they make a false,
fake movie, idiots think it's gospel. Cobb was an Archie Bunker type,
who lived in a time when black people couldn't drink out of the same
fountains as white people! People know about his opinions because he
was by far the biggest star baseball player when he lived, so he was
interviewed constantly. The movie literally made it seem like he was
the only person with racism in the 50's. And also made it seem a guy
confined to a wheelchair was running around doing all sorts of crazy
stuff 6 months before he died.I'm very familiar with this particular movies subject matter. Early
Wonder Women comic did indeed contain a lot of erotic bondage. The
thing they're not mentioning is that a lot of other comics did too!
Literally half the comics on the shelves each month had a woman tied up
on the cover! They're taking the Wonder Women stuff and implanting
their own wild fantasies about what it must all mean.There's even scenes with this made up proto Comic Book Authority coming
after them, that didn't happen until well after Marstons death. But
having it around during his life made the story seem more real.There is no, Zero proof, of any of this kinky stuff in Marstons life.
Therefore the family should be able to sue the producers and the
distributors into oblivion.This kind of revisionist history is everywhere. I just watched a mini
series about Howard Carters finding King Tuts tomb and wow, they made
Carter 30 years younger, and having an affair with Lord Carnarvon's
daughter! Ridiculous.In this case the two women were lifelong best friends, that's pretty
much it. They lived together after Marstons death to save money and try
to raise 4 children.And some scumbag decided to make a soft core porno out of these peoples
lives. I hope the family wins Billions! Not only this travesty of
justice, but the movie sucked ass! It's like watching A high school
drama and all the understudies are performing.Read through the reviews on Rotten Tomatoes and you'll see that a lot
of the professional reviewers felt obligated to give it higher rating.
Because they like the anything goes lifestyle.
