10
I loved it

Spoilers!In this movie, passengers Jim's hibernation pod malfunctions. He spends
a year in utter loneliness until he decides to wake up another
passenger. Jennifer Lawrence is spectacular in this movie. It reminded me of why I
love her so much. She's just so talented and really brings on the
emotion. The scenes where she was upset and unhappy or excited and
delighted I really felt it all with her. Honestly, she's just such a
phenomenal actress and I really don't get why anyone thinks she's
overrated.My favorite scenes are probably after Aurora finds out Jim woke her up.
The raw emotion and feelings that I experience while watching is what
makes Jennifer Lawrence so astounding. Chris Pratt is also incredible. The emotion he is able to invoke in
viewers is incredible. I loved him in Jurassic World and Guardians of
the Galaxy, and in Passengers he does just as well. A movie with such a small cast needs actors who can deliver. And
deliver they did. The other members of the cast include Lawrence
Fishburne and Michael Sheen. I haven't really seen any of their movies
before (at least none that I can remember) but they were both pretty
damn outstanding in the movie.I love the story of the movie, it feels original and exciting. So why is this movie so unpopular with critics? I mean the cast is
fantastic and the story feels incredibly original. I mean honestly, with critics, there is really nothing to worry about.
Critics will dislike everything for absolutely no justifiable reason,
and for movies, critics represents the tiny insignificant minority
(ouch, right?). Who cares about critics? We should start a revolution
against them because honestly no one cares anymore. Some of the best movies have the worst critic ratings. Some critics
think their job is to find everything wrong with something and rant
about it. What's more important is the people who actually see the movie, who
make up the vast majority of moviegoers. Critics are literally
insignificant really. I was surprised to see that some people said that Passengers was
misogynistic with a flawed story. I have to say that I strongly
disagree. The idea of Passengers is about a man stranded alone on a ship,
destined to die. The movie examines the human condition. The loneliness
he feels is unquestionable (at one point he is close to committing
suicide.) Jon Sphaits (the writer) wrote a script that asks the
important and difficult questions. What would you do?Like they say in the movie, Jim is very similar to a drowning man, he
will do anything he thinks will save him. Loneliness causes him to wake
up another passenger. And this movie I felt dealt with it
appropriately. And I am not trying to justify his actions, because they are
undoubtedly wrong, however, I strongly believe that everyone would've
done the same thing had they been in the same situation. Besides the
fact that Jim redeems himself in the end by allowing Aurora the choice
she was never given.
