4
Once Bitten, Twice Shy

When the best you can say about a movie is that it's NOT found footage
after all, it's got problems.I was desperate for a new-to-me, low-budget horror indie flick lately.
In fact, I watched six back-to-back in a week. Yeah, I can't wait for
October which is in about a month and when I really indulge in many,
many horror movie experiences. So, when this Bite film opens and it's
immediately screaming found footage, I put aside my disdain for such
rubbish and decided to give it a try.BOOM! Within ten minutes or so, it shifts from found footage to a real
film. Thank God for that and that gave me more interest in seeing this
play out.And it went pretty good for a while. I liked where this was goinguntil
the final act. Eh. Sorry, spoilers, it was a terrible ending.But, backing up: The movie revolves around a bachelorette party in a
foreign land where the bride-to-be is bitten and slowly turns into
whatever bit her. Her annoying friends, landlord and fiancé try to
figure out why she's locking herself away as she metamorphoses. Again, the third act, as gruesome and detailed as the FX crew made it
out, lacks any originality or threat. Yes, the movie up to that point
isn't a hundred percent original to begin with, but it ends with all
the clichés and stereotypes all these When Animals Attack films
constantly show.I am a fan of this subgenre of horror. I do LOVE When Animal Attack
films. So, I definitely wanted to see this. The end result, it's not
great, but not bad. Just slightly below average and you could do a lot
worse. So, if you're a fan, like me, give it a chance. Just don't listen to any foreigners who lead you to a secret, off-the-
grid watering hole what he claims is crystal clear water when it's
really muddy and ugly. You know the rule of going into different land's
water supplies!***Final thoughts: I know, I know. I mentioned "When Animal Attack" movies
several times, and in a sense, it fits. What it really should be
compared to is the classic, 1986's The Fly. Actually, I retract that
statement, as well. There is NO comparison between that EXCELLENT movie
and this one, butif you liked that one, you might like this one some.
