8
The surprise of the fall

Let me star off by saying that I have never really read any of the
Goosebumps books, but they were quite popular when I was a child.
However, I have watched some episodes of the Goosebumps TV series, and
I found it quite interesting.Then, I heard that there was a Goosebumps movie in the works and that
Jack Black was going to be in it. Part of me was looking forward to it
because of Jack Black (He's kinda one of my favorite celebrities), but
another part of me was skeptical. Given that each installment in the
"Goosebumps" series is a different story entirely, I was not sure how
they would pull it off. Also, the trailer was not very convincing.That being said, I went and saw the film, and I must say that I was
very impressed with it, and I enjoyed it very much.It actually has a very unique and interesting story line. We have these
three teenagers, and R.L. Stine, and Stine has these manuscripts of his
stories locked. One of the teenagers accidentally opens one of the
Goosebumps manuscripts, releasing the monsters.For all we know, it could have just been an anthology of all of the
different Goosebumps stories, but instead, the writers got creative and
brought the stories together, followed by a plot involving the
Goosbumps monsters unleashed from R.L. Stine's manuscripts and wreaking
havoc across the town.Jack Black plays a fictional version of R.L. Stine (the author of the
Goosebumps series). Black actually portrays his character quite well,
and is quite funny (as usual). At first, Stine comes off as a jerk, but
once you find out his secret, you actually care for him.It also has some good chemistry between the two protagonists Zach and
Hannah, and Dylan Minnette and Odeyah Rush deliver impressive
performances that capture it.The film is also very fun and entertaining. There is not a single
moment in the film where I was bored. Slappy the Dummy basically stole
the show. Whenever Slappy is on screen, he brings forth a laugh, and a
scare at once. I also loved the grocery store scene with the werewolf.I do not want to spoil anything, but that twist (and yes, there IS a
twist) got me. Also, the real R.L. Stine makes an appearance somewhere
in the film.There are a couple of problems that I had with the film. One of them is
that, while I cared for Zach and Hannah, it seems to rely a bit too
much on the romance aspect. Another problem is that it relies a little
too much on CGI to the point where it looked cartoon-ish in some areas.
But those things did not ruin the movie for me.Overall, Goosebumps is a very fun and creative family-friendly spooky
thrill ride, and I would highly recommend it to anyone who is a fan of
the franchise.
