9
Healing in the midst of the brokenness of it all

¨What have you done with my legs? ¨Forget about Amour, Once Upon a Time in Anatolia, or A Royal Affair;
the best foreign films of 2012 came from France. The first was The
Intouchables, about a quadriplegic millionaire who hires the help of a
young man from the projects, while Rust and Bone centers around another
unlikely relationship between a killer whale trainer and a boxer. These
two were my favorite foreign films by far, and I especially enjoyed
this one because I am a huge fan of director Jacques Audiard who in
2009 directed the Oscar nominated A Prophet. That film was much more
suspenseful as it centered on a prisoner who manages to survive inside
a corrupted prison system. This time, Audiard focuses on a dramatic
romantic story between two tortured souls who truly learn to live after
they have suffered severe physical injuries. More than a character
study, this film is a soul study as the two lead characters find
healing under extremely rare circumstances. We are introduced to these
characters in a very realistic manner. These people are afflicted in
some way or another; they aren't your usual likable lead characters;
they are deeply flawed, but we sympathize with them. Like he did in A
Prophet, Audiard adapted the screenplay with the assistance of Thomas
Bidegain based on the short stories from Canadian author Craig
Davidson. Audiard's film was nominated for the Palm d'Or in last year's
Cannes Film Festival and is really worth checking out. Some people had
an issue with the ending because they thought everything fit together a
little too neatly, but I thought the final act was probably the best
and most satisfying part of this film. Our physical struggles and bonds
can end up strengthening our tortured souls and making us better human
beings.A former boxer, Alain (Matthias Schoenaerts from Bullhead), decides to
move from Belgium to the south of France where his sister, Louise
(Celine Sallette), lives after he is put in charge of his young son,
Sam (Armand Verdure). He isn't very responsible, so he knows his sister
can help him raising his son while he finds a job. He finds one as a
local bouncer at a disco where he meets Stephanie (Marion Cotillard), a
professional killer whale trainer at Marineland, after escorting her
back home due to a brawl. They exchange numbers but don't see each
other again. Alain find a job as a security guard at a local store
where he meets Martial (Bouli Lanners) who convinces him to begin
fighting again. Martial runs an underground kickboxing tournament where
he introduces Alain and they begin making some money off it. Meanwhile
Stephanie continues her life at the marine land, until she suffers a
freak accident and loses both her legs. Heavily depressed she calls
Alain and the two begin to form a special bond. She begins to go out
more and even joins Alain when he goes off to fight. The two begin to
support each other, and despite their brokenness they begin to help
each other out. Audiard is a master at creating depth and pays close attention to these
random characters that end up bonding with each other, but he couldn't
have succeeded if it weren't for the two terrific lead performances
from Matthias Schoenaerts and Marion Cotillard. Cotillard was
remarkable and should have received a nomination, and somehow
Schoenaerts manages to make his character likable despite all his
flaws. There is something in the way he treats Stephanie that seems to
erase all his flaws and make us want him to achieve his personal goals.
The actors managed to create a rather unique and authentic relationship
and for me it worked really well. Every scene that at first felt
unnecessary seems to have a purpose or a symbolism later on, like the
way Alain looked at Stephanie's legs when he was escorting her home.
Later he wins a fight he was about to lose when he catches a glimpse of
Stephanie's prosthetic legs. Somehow in the midst of pain, he finds
greater strength, and that is what makes this film so appealing.
Everything which seemed so random at first seems to come together
perfectly at the end. This is one of those films that stay with you
long after the credits roll, and it is deeply touching and moving. This
is one of those films that is driven by the performances and the
overall narrative of the story. The visual effects of Cotillard 's legs
(or lack thereof) are also pretty well done. Everything about this film
makes it one you will definitely want to check out. It is real, it is
raw, and it is touching. http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/
