2
Corden sings again

To be fair to the film, they got the Pol Pot jokes out of the way early
on in the movie. The rest of the film is a wannabe, quirky, humorous,
rags to riches feel good film with every cliché thrown at it.Personally I think James Corden is a decent enough actor and he has
proved that on stage several times such as The History Boys. However he
has his detractors who cannot get over his comedy roles or just because
he is fat or laddish in behaviour.Based loosely true events Corden plays Paul Potts a mobile phone
salesman who has always loved opera. He has been bullied since he was
young, shy, gawky, overweight and always seems to be down on his luck
and could never get that big break. Even his father seems to be
embarrassed by him.In reality Paul Potts was an elected Lib Dem councillor for several
years, his siblings have been ignored in the film and he sang in
several Opera productions on his way to the big time.We see Potts save money to go to an opera school in Venice, he
auditions in front of Pavarotti but gets too nervous. He falls in love
with a girl he met through the internet but every time something good
happens bad luck gets in his way such as a burst appendix or a bike
accident. That is until he wins Britain's got Talent.Its a film that is aimed at the audience who enjoyed his performance in
the talent show, voted for him and purchased his album. I have no idea
how good of an opera singer he really is. These days the Classical
charts are full of what I term Karaoke opera singers who sing snippets
of popular opera tunes, you know the bits even philistines like me
would recognise such as 'Just one Cornetto' or is it 'O sole mio?'The film produced by Simon Cowell's production company with product
placement by Carphone Warehouse is heavily manipulative and contrived
just like some of Cowell's shows.I found the film to be tedious, unoriginal and unfunny. The cast do
their best with a poor script, Corden is charming enough more to with
his skills as an actor than the actual cookie cutter screenplay itself.
