9
The law says you cannot touch, but I think I see a lotta lawbreakers up in this house tonight...

Many people like to generalize things to make it easier to understand
the world. When the trailer for MAGIC MIKE was revealed, it was labeled
as just a "male stripper movie," like how BROKEBACK MOUNTAIN was just a
"gay cowboy movie." This generic label, undermining and downgrading the
film's actual quality, even overshadows the fact that Steven Soderbergh
is the director, who rarely make films that lack substance. Yes, MAGIC
MIKE has style, but it has substance as well. Here's the kicker: Those
who want to see the film primarily for the stripping may be left
disappointed, as they will likely fidget in their seats for these
scenes to come. As one lady sitting next to me said once the credits
rolled, "Worst movie ever." On the other hand, those who refuse to see
the film because of its subject matter may be missing a great film.To state it simply, MAGIC MIKE is a BOOGIE NIGHTS-lite, which isn't a
bad thing considering how utterly dark and depressing BOOGIE NIGHTS
gets in its second half. The first half of MAGIC MIKE is light and
breezy and quite funny. In fact, most of the jokes in here are funnier
than most modern comedies try to achieve. We are introduced to this
world that is fascinating because of how surprisingly mundane and
economics-centered it is. The stripping sequences, filled with energy
and sexiness, are mostly played for laughs. We get exposed to a lot of
male asses, ripped abs, and pelvic thrusts, but it's all in good fun.
Then, things slowly start to take a dark turn in the second half. It
isn't hard to imagine people thinking, "Wait. Isn't this a stripping
movie?" Characters start to make bad decisions and one thing leads to
another and so on. You get the idea.The cast is terrific all around. Channing Tatum is very good as the
lead role, playing comedy and drama effectively. However, I want to
give a huge shout out to Alex Pettyfr and Cody Horn, both pulling off
terrific performances in their substantial roles. Pettyfr, in
particular, I never really liked in the films he starred in before, but
he is just phenomenal in this film. Horn, on the other hand, seemed to
come out from nowhere, but her rapport with Tatum is terrific. Let's
also not forget about Matthew McConaughey. Even though he isn't in the
film that much, he steals every single scene he's in. He's just that
good.MAGIC MIKE will either surprise or disappoint you, depending on what
your expectations are. Still, it's a film BOTH genders can enjoy, and
it shouldn't be limited to "a movie for the ladies." MAGIC MIKE is
funny and dramatic when it needs to be, but the main reason it succeeds
is because of the cast. Overall, MAGIC MIKE is a very good film. Just
don't expect a lot of stripping.
