10
The Straightforward Hunt

One's appeal for Zero Dark Thirty is to see how it depicts the search
for Osama Bin Laden like it seems too impossible to find him, like he's
probably already dead, or almost doesn't exist. Even though there are
controversies going around and some revelations, the story is still all
dramatized. Without a surprise from director Kathryn Bigelow, the film
is totally electrifying and deliberately engrossing. There is humanity
left in the end that made this a lot more compelling, but that's the
last thing we should talk about. It never backs away from the promise
and stays focus on the mission. Zero Dark Thirty is a powerfully
gripping thriller.It's a straightforward mission and only about the mission. We can see
the main protagonist's obsession of capturing Bin Laden even without
showing any backstories. She's brave, probably too brave, enough on
what she's doing. They have to make difficult decisions to where are
they gonna go or who are they gonna find. The film is indeed a
dramatize version of the ten year hunt. It plays too much suspense and
sudden shock, but no matter what, every tragic event are still
portrayed in a completely terrifying way.There is no doubt this film will fall into a controversy. It features a
torture scene that many think they justify it. It is so talked about
and was against it but it seems the scenes only exists nothing more
than showing that sort of truth. The most awaited part of the movie is
indeed the climax. Just like anyone would imagine, it's a silent and
mercilessly violent raid. There's a lot of humanity in the character
Maya. As much as she aggressively wanted to find her target, she still
cannot stomach any brutal interrogation and tragedy happening on her
associates and other people. Jessica Chastain manages to weigh all of
her personalities. Other strong actors like Jason Clarke, Kyle
Chandler, Jennifer Ehle, and Mark Strong keeps their roles effective as
well.Kathryn Bigelow's prominent style is slick tension. Here she displays
danger in any place where the characters go like something will
suddenly explode or a loud gunfire. The action scenes is filled with
suspense. One of the sequences can be tad too ridiculous for this movie
but it didn't ruin a single thing to the experience. When it takes
place inside the CIA or a meeting, it gets undeniably absorbing. The
screen writing makes sure it's factual enough and interesting.People's expectations might mislead them. Zero Dark Thirty is not only
about finding and killing Osama Bin Laden but it's also about one's
obsession and revenge to this terrorist. In the end, there's plenty of
guilt to express but that proves that they are still human beings. We
could merit its brilliant filmmaking and strong storytelling that made
it feel like we're part of the search. We all know this is just a
dramatization of the true events but all the horrifying truths like the
violence stays to the picture. It's a story with nobody calling
themselves heroes even though they defeated their enemy. It depicts the
darkest parts of its history. Some might wonder how worse it could have
been but ignoring all the commotion, Zero Dark Thirty is still a
compelling thriller.
