9
Absolutely essential

"Inherent Vice" is the first outright comedy that Paul Thomas Anderson
has made and it's only the second film he's made based on someone
else's work, (in this case Thomas Pynchon, whose dialogue he has
faithfully reproduced). Consequently the film has been somewhat
side-lined and underrated so while it may not be "Magnolia", "There
Will Be Blood" or "The Master" it is still head and shoulders above
anything else out there at the moment. The plot may be virtually
impenetrable, (but then who gives a toss about plot these days), yet as
a snapshot of a drug-fueled LA in 1970 this is close to priceless. If
Anderson was Altman in a previous life then this is his "The Long
Goodbye" by way of Howard Hawks' "The Big Sleep".When I said the plot was impenetrable I think I should have said it was
more or less irrelevant since it is easily summed up in the opening and
then conveniently disappears down a rabbit-hole. 'Doc', (a terrific
Joaquin Phoenix), is a spaced-out PI 'hired' by former girl-friend
Shasta, (newcomer Katherine Waterston), to track down missing
billionaire Michael Wolfmann, (Eric Roberts), whom she believes has
been kidnapped by his own wife. He isn't very far into the
investigation when he wakes up beside a corpse and finds himself
surrounded by the fuzz, chief among whom is one Bigfoot Bjornsen, (a
never better Josh Brolin). After that you really need to pay very close
attention or just go with the flow as more and more characters slip in
and out of the frame and an organization called 'The Golden Fang'
begins to loom large. Oh, and I did mention this was a comedy and a
very funny one, too. It's the kind of surreal, psychedelic comedy
movies don't do these days and in that respect it's another throwback
to independent Ameriican movie-making in the seventies.As well as Phoenix and Brolin, both at the top of their game, there is
Reese Witherspoon as a promiscuous Assistant DA, an amazing Martin
Short as a very peculiar dentist, (and on screen for much too short a
time), Owen Wilson as some kind of whistle-blower, (at least I guessed
that was what he was), not to mention cameos from the likes of Jeannie
Berlin and Jefferson Mays. It's a fun film though it might confound
Anderson devotees and anyone who thought him incapable of doing
anything other than "The Master" or "Magnolia" and, of course, it looks
the part. As well as being a great writer, Anderson has always been a
great visual stylist and here DoP Robert Elswit imbues the film with a
Vilmos Zsigmond hue. Yes, this is a film that isn't just set in 1970
but which could have been made then, too. It may not be Anderson's best
work but it is absolutely essential nevertheless.
