8
Twisted Cinema

Stoker is a psychological thriller that you might not expect. It's not
the usual type of the genre. The storytelling is in pure style and it
features its terror in a completely twisted way. It's a weird cinematic
experience that might stuck in your head for some time. It didn't offer
much new to the plot but it creates a both melancholic and terrifying
atmosphere to the picture which made it fascinating. What's more
fascinating is the filmmaking understands the psychosis beneath it and
it clearly shows them on screen. Stoker is quite peculiar but in a
remarkably stunning way.The story is just simple but it is told very differently. Thrillers
usually slowly builds the tension of the plot until it gets to the
point that everything what's happening is not right. Here, it already
shows the oddness of their lives. The only thing it does now is to
explore what's happening to the characters and what they are going to
do. The plot isn't really that complex but it's all rather provocative.
It embraces the strangeness that is manipulated from the two Stokers.
It's not ought to be scary or anything. It's all about taking the ride
on their horrifying acts. These scenes are, without a doubt, bizarre
and somehow disturbing.The film has a set of amazing talents. Mia Wasikowska has always been
lovely and talented. She gives a sense of weirdness inside of her
innocence which is perfect to the character. Nicole Kidman makes a
great desperate mother. Matthew Goode adds some creepy mannerism to the
psychotic Uncle Charlie. It's easy to get infatuated by his deceiving
charms. The violence is a bit tamed for a Chan-wook Park film, but
here, he aims more at the fortitude. He fills them with an impressively
energetic style which helps executing its eerie. The gorgeous
cinematography captures the melancholia of their world. Everything is
just stunning.The story isn't really that subtle or original but Stoker is a
stylishly made film that will give you a quite different experience.
Instead of jump scares or whatever tricks that typical thrillers use,
the film rather tests the anxiety of the audience in these strange
haunting exteriors. The film is not trying to be innovative but the
reason why it's interesting is because of its intense use of filmmaking
styles. It leaves the clichéd modern thriller plot points for a while
and it simply tells the story by exploring these people's little
twisted lives. Overall, it's visually captivating despite of the horror
underneath the surfaces and that what makes the film so appealing.
