8
An Addicting Mind-Bender from the Director of PRISONERS

Denis Villeneuve garnered a lot of attention for his mainstream success
with PRISONERS, starring Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal, but it was
it smaller, more obscure release that I wanted to see. ENEMY was
released around the same time as PRISONERS but never saw a national
release and I had to wait for the home video release to finally catch
it. Watching it, I figured out why it never went mainstream. Most
general audiences don't like something they can't understand, and ENEMY
is probably best described as a mental cluster fumess. It has a
surface plot that's easy enough to understand but the film is loaded
with symbolism and deeper themes. Most of which can't be discussed
without entering spoiler territory so I won't touch on it much, but
this is a movie that inspires discussion orat the very leastwill
leave you contemplating it long after it ends. I know my first viewing
led to two days of thought trying to decipher what I'd seen and it
wasn't until I scoured the Internet, reading over the frustration of
others and the myriad of proposed meanings, that I felt I'd come to an
understanding. But that's me and my obsessive nature, and others can do
their own research. On the surface, ENEMY is about history teacher Adam
Bell (Gyllenhaal). Adam is suggested a film from a work colleague that
he might enjoy and becomes obsessed when an extra in the film looks
exactly like him. He tracks the actor down, Anthony (also Gyllenhaal),
and discovers they're physically identical in every way. And then it
gets weird.At first impression, ENEMY is a very depressing film. It's incredibly
dark with lots of shadows and harsh lighting, and the entire movie has
this bizarre yellow tint to it. Everything is has an unnerving yellow
sickness to it. And the characterswell, no one is happy here. Adam is
a depressing little man. He doesn't say much and he's very socially
awkward. He's got a beautiful girlfriend named Mary (Mélanie Laurent)
but there's some unknown tension between the two of them. She seems to
come to his barren apartment every night and the two of them spend a
minimal amount of time together before moving to the bedroom, and she
always seems to leave in anger or exasperation when it's through.
Anthony is more outgoing, more confident. He's married to a beautiful
woman (Sarah Gadon) in a crumbling marriage racked with previous
infidelities on his part. She seems hopeful that he's changed but the
recent events where he hides his meeting with Adam have her wondering
if he's returned to old habits. Everyone's pretty miserable but Adam
finds hope for something interesting when he encounters his
doppelganger. Whatever it was that piqued his interest, it fades fast
as the two come face-to-face and Adam immediately regrets it. Anthony
immediately moves to do what pretty much any one of us would probably
do if we discovered we had an exact duplicate somewhere in the world
with a beautiful girlfriend.The surface plot is simple enough but there is so much more boiling
beneath the surface of ENEMY. Honestly, I'd seen it twice and couldn't
quite piece it together on my own. I only came to full understanding
after doing some additional searching around the web for
interpretations. I didn't have to do all the supplemental research. The
movie's was perfectly fine as a piece of head-scratcher entertainment.
I wanted to do it. I found ENEMY so enthralling that I wanted to know
more. It's a very slow moving movie and spends most of the first half
establishing the atmosphere and building the suspension but then it
grabs you and you can't stop watching because you're so interested in
seeing how it'll all play out. At least, I was. Jake Gyllenhaal is
amazing in the dual role. I was impressed with Sam Rockwell in Duncan
Jones' MOON but Rockwell was essentially playing the same character
interacting with itself. Gyllenhaal invests such seamless separate
personalities into Adam and Anthony that they truly feel like two
individual men. He's done an incredible job with ENEMY and I hope he
gets some accolades for it. Mélanie Laurent isn't given much as Mary,
but Sarah Gadon is undeniably sympathetic as Anthony's pregnant,
hopeful wife Helen. Every involved brings their best to the table,
making ENEMY one of the better hidden gems I've found in the past
year's independent film selection. It's not going to be a film for
everyone but anyone who enjoys a film that leaves you contemplating it
after the credits roll should give ENEMY a chance.
