3
How is this movie getting such good reviews? Have our standards really plummeted this much?

Originally, I had gone into this with very low expectations as the last
Annabelle movie was a complete flop for me. Ultimately, my tune changed
a bit when I saw that this one was actually getting decent reviews,
which is rare for a horror movie altogether. I feel as thought there
has been a MAJOR drought in quality, domestic horror movies over the
past 15-20 years, but I am always keen to check out movies that are
loosely based on real-life stories. Enter here- the origin story of
Annabelle, although I think that this was likely not at all coherent to
the real Annabelle's origin story... but who knows.With Gary Dauberman on board, I don't know why I expected this film to
be superior than Annabelle, but the trailer looked decent enough for me
to check this one out (with a Groupon- THANK GOODNESS).Firstly, how in the world is Bea a derivative of Annabelle? GAH. Okay,
next.I don't want to get into an entire synopsis, because so many others
will be able to do that for me. I'm happy to just be a total Grinch
about it all, as I really just wanted the movie to end almost 30
minutes into it.As you know, these movies are tied into the other Annabelle and The
Conjuring movies as Lorraine Warren, one of the protagonists in The
Conjuring (Vera Farmiga's role) is the current owner of the real
Annabelle doll and investigated that case (as well as Amityville, etc.)
But the way that these are tied in together was done with almost zero
consideration and thought and makes it all seem so incredibly cheesy-
not at all an eye-opening moment of WOW... more so, a ".... really?"
type of connection. Alas, what grinds my gears in no particular order:
1. Timing. I assume this was supposed to be in the 60s? In a house with
electricity and modern flashlights, why were lanterns with matches used
as sources of light? 2. The mother's face got attacked (and the doll
mask was SUCH a wasted touch) -- why couldn't she walk? 3. If a
possessed doll can break out of a covered well, why couldn't she break
out of a locked closet? Obviously she could because she kept unlocking
it from the inside, right? Why did she just chill in there for so long
and only go after her mother- was her dad's soul not cool enough? 4. If
Annabelle had been quiet for so long, why did they even bother opening
their house to orphans (even though it was sought as penance)? Mrs.
Mullins can't even take care of herself and her husband took literally
zero interest in any of them.5. What was the point of having 4 additional orphan girls? They
literally served zero purpose.6. If Annabelle was in the doll and then Janice-- who the heck was in
the scarecrow? 7. When Sister Charlotte (who was a horrible actress
BTW) stabbed the doll, why did that even matter since Annabelle had
possessed Janice? Shouldn't she have stabbed Janice instead for it to
have any effect? 8. Had Sister Charlotte never noticed that nun in the
photo before? What was even the point of bringing that up for it to not
be visited again at any point- really just another lead-in to The Nun
movie or The Conjuring 2? WEAK.9. Is it assumed that Samuel stopped making dolls altogether after his
daughter died? What did he even do then for a living? He had already
boxed Annabelle up-- what was the point of unboxing her and keeping
her? Sounded like he was an up and coming toy maker and had a big order
to fill, but instead his daughter dies so he holds onto the one doll
that he made (which has no correlation to his daughter in any way) and
that's the vessel she chooses to inhabit. Right.10. WHY DID THIS MOVIE SUCK SO BAD AND WHY ARE THE RATINGS SO GOOD? The
acting was atrocious (other than Talitha Bateman), the story was
garbage and the tie-ins were forced and pathetic. It's disheartening
that people are calling this a good movie. Have better standards,
people! It is "jump" scary-- I'll give it that. But that's literally
it. Nothing more. Huge disappointment.
