8
The Woman's Viewpoint

Vera Brittain's "Testament of Youth", an autobiographical memoir of her
service as a nurse in the First World War, was controversial when it
first appeared in 1933, largely because it was written from a pacifist
viewpoint and rejected the official British position that we had been
fighting a "just war" against German aggression. It was, however, also
extremely popular and has never been out of print since. What gave it
its popularity was Brittain's ability to describe both the horrors she
had witnessed and her own personal sense of loss. Her fiancé Roland
Leighton, her brother Edward and two close friends, Victor Richardson
and Geoffrey Thurlow, were all killed in battle. The story was turned
into a memorable television series, with Cheryl Campbell in the leading
role, in the early eighties, and now has become a film, doubtless
because of the interest in the war sparked by last year's centenary
celebrations. The film opens in 1914, just before the outbreak of war. Vera is a
young woman from a well-to-do family who is hoping to study at Oxford
University, despite the opposition of her father. Like many men of the
period, he believes firmly that women's place is in the home as a wife
and mother and that no man will want to marry a "bluestocking", as he
dismissively calls female intellectuals. Eventually, however, he
relents and allows Vera to sit the entrance examination. By the time
she arrives in Oxford, however, war has broken out and Vera, who
initially reacts with patriotic enthusiasm, believes that she needs to
do something to aid the war effort. Postponing her studies, she
volunteers to serve as an army nurse. What she sees on the battlefields of France shakes her conviction that
the war is some grand heroic enterprise. There is a suggestion that her
conversion to pacifism may partly have been motivated by guilt.
Although her father may have been ultra-conservative in other respects,
he was opposed to the war, which he correctly foresaw would be long and
bloody, and tried to dissuade Edward from volunteering, only relenting
as a result of Vera's entreaties. When Edward was subsequently killed,
Vera felt herself to have been partly responsible. Compared to the TV serial, which was broadcast in several episodes, the
film of necessity has to condense or omit much of the material from the
original book. There is, for example, no mention of the period Vera
spent working in Malta. Some parts of her story were rewritten for the
sake of dramatic licence; contrary to what is shown here, for example,
she did not meet her future husband George Catlin until after the war.
Nor did she receive news of Roland's death on what was to have been
their wedding day. Some rewriting, however, is normally inevitable
whenever a book, particularly one as long as "Testament of Youth", is
adapted for the cinema. (Those who adapt books for television, with
more time at their disposal, can afford to be more faithful).The film-makers were fortunate to have an actress as gifted as the
lovely Alicia Vikander in the main role, bringing out Vera's compassion
as well as her determination. Congratulations are also due to Alicia on
her perfect English accent. While watching the film, in fact, I never
suspected that she was not British by birth. It was only later that I
discovered she is actually Swedish. The story of the trenches of the First World War has become a familiar
one over the last hundred years, immortalised not only in history books
but also in countless memoirs, novels, poems, paintings, films and
television programmes. Most of those, however, were told from a male
viewpoint, normally the viewpoint of the men who actually did the
fighting. A film like this one is valuable because it gives us a
woman's point of view. 8/10
