9
Everyone deals with grief differently. And Jake is just a freaking gem of an actor!

***minor spoilers... no plot points revealed***Holy Heaven! Jake Gyllenhaal does it again!Being a fan of this brilliant actor, I (try to) watch almost all of his
movies. New and old. I saw the IMDb page of this movie months before it
released. It had a poster with Jake Gyllenhaal holding a hammer against
a wall he was breaking down. I instantly added it to my watchlist.Now, months later, even right now, the rating for this movie is really
low. Like, it's 7, which is average, but the number of votes? Only
around 30k? That's a real shame. I almost didn't want to watch this
movie because of the same reason. But I knew I was going to anyway
(someday), because I'm a fan of Mr. Gyllenhaal. :DAnd this movie really did it for me. I really, really liked it. At
first, the detached character of Jake really felt repulsive, if I must
say. I mean, his wife died and he was acting like it was nothing. But
as the movie progressed we saw him go through the grief of the same, in
his own way. And I could understand and sympathize with his feelings
and emotions. And by the end, even I was in tears (almost). Now, that
is some mind blowing character development.There's some really great dialogue in this movie."If you wanna fix something, you have to take everything apart, and
figure out what's important; what'll make you stronger. Repairing the
human heart is like repairing an automobile. Just examine everything.
Then you can put it all back together."Simply amazing.I also really liked the entire take of Jake on the usage of the "F"
word. To be honest, I think what he said seemed really accurate. Too
much usage of the word and repeatedly saying it does discredit the
word's actual meaning, and what it is meant for. I think I should tone
down my usage of the same too, now. :DAnd the visuals? Stunning! The editing and the cinematography of this
movie is no less. I LOVED a few shots. Especially that one scene where
he is walking in the crowd, while the crowd walks backwards. I have
seen such scenes many times in different movies, but I still loved. Not
only that but the scenes where Davis (Jake's character) imagines the
shadow of his wife behind him are also done beautifully.Putting all of these marvelous things aside, I also adored the various
subtle feelings, actions and changes they showed to us as the movie
progressed. That's the thing about a good drama (with good acting), you
don't need words to express every little thing; every little feeling.
For example, Davis (Jake's character) in a way, changed Karen (Naomi
Watt's character). Now, this isn't blatantly expressed because the
movie doesn't revolve around her character, but it is implied.Remember that little scene where she separates her undergarments and
her socks, all because earlier in the movie Jake said, "I just think a
woman's underwear is deserving of its own space."Tiny details like these can only be noticed when someone pays attention
and is invested in watching the movie. Such subtleties, otherwise,
usually go unnoticed and hence unappreciated. I, on the other hand,
really admire when they imply stuff rather than saying it explicitly in
movies; when they don't speak EVERY thing they feel, but still we can
see what they feel in every little thing they do, if we notice.I think I might re-watch the movie just because I want to see if I
missed any detail. Also, because the movie IS that good.And trust me, I'm not being partial when I say that, Jake REALLY DID
more than enough justice to his character.Also, I forgot to mention, the score for this movie is amazing. It
really set the mood. I don't know who is responsible for the same, but
hats off to you sir/mam.I really wish this movie would get more recognition. It's a beautifully
done movie and it can be heartbreaking sometimes. The movie is
virtually flawless and darn near perfect.9/10A must watch. Don't miss this one.
