7
Enjoyable heist movie with really stupid people.

Movie review:Does the Rock appear in every movie throughout the summer?
Anyway this movie is based on a true story which makes it that much
better when you see it. Reason for this? These "criminals" have to be
the dumbest people in the world. The story revolves around 3 fitness
trainers or muscleheads that decide they want the better things in
life. Well, of course, the best way to get them is to steal it. The
mastermind to this is Danny Lugo (played by Mark Wahlberg who again is
great) who concocts a scheme to kidnap one of the clients of the club
(Tony Shalhoub), and extort his millions. So he recruits Adrian
(Anthony Mackie) and Paul (Dwayne Johnson) to exact this brilliant
plan. I would dive into the plan, but I really don't think there was
one. That is the beauty of the genius of the plan. They said "screw it,
let's wing it" and since they are aforementioned idiots, this leads to
some extremely funny moments. The movie itself is not action, but more
of a comedy that just shows how dumb people are. So let's just say they
painstakingly achieve their goal and score the money, but that is only
half of it. In their own ways, one score wasn't enough due to their
various eccentric behaviors and now a new plot is hatched, which you
would think after the first plans failure (barring getting the money)
they may have learned they are not cut out for this. There are plenty
of little side plots in the story that when the movie sums them up for
you in court, you will be just listening to the account of this heist
and just plain out laugh, not even realizing you just saw it in the
past two hours of viewing. The characters work so well off of each
other that the humor comes fairly quick, yet subtle. This is all put
together very well into a fine flick that delivers the laughs. I was
impressed that Michael Bay pulled this off since he isn't known for
comedy. Set in the 90s and in Miami, the look is just what you would
expect, fluorescent colors, jean shorts, etc. all are abound. A very
comedic look at a violent yet amusing crime that actually happened. I
would love to know just how accurate this movie is, because it just
seems so over the top on how stupid the characters were. Oh, one thing
I noticed that I am unsure how this fits into the criminals lifestyles
and is more used for humor:An obsession with the male sex organ, real
and fake, the subject comes up a lot. All and all, an enjoyable movie
and the Rock once again steals the show with his g-d fearing coke head
character that will just keep you laughing. 6.6/10 IMDb 6.9 I
personally think it was just a bit too long, but that is OK. Bonus for
wrestling fans, look closely for a Kurt Angle sighting in this movie.
