9
Very good film about the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing

Made just three years after the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing, "Patriots
Day" tells the story of the infamous event, including the pursuit of
the terrorists. The film adds two fictional characters to a plot that
includes 281 listed real people from the event. Mark Wahlberg plays
fictional Boston police sergeant Tommy Saunders, and Michelle Monaghan
plays his wife, Carol. The use of a fictional character is an age-old device in novels and
movies about historical events. Where such stories often move back and
forth between any number of characters, a fictional character is a
focal point from which to view the event as it unfolds. It's a device
that works well. This movie also must have set a record for use of the F-word. I don't
know if that was fiction or real, but the dialog is riddled with "F…
that," F… this," and F… it." If it's real, then the Boston Police
Department can be proud (or not) of being the most foul-mouthed of any
law agency on film to date.The movie is based partly on two books written about the April 2013
bombings and the capture of the terrorists. The cast includes
characters in the police, FBI and other authority roles, and several of
the bombing victims. Others were marathon observers and rescue and
hospital personnel. Some of the real people are interviewed or shown at
the end of the film.This is not a movie made for entertainment, but to look back on a
tragic event and to celebrate the local people who responded to help in
the crisis. The hoopla about Bostonians coming together after the
event, and the bravura that Boston will not be conquered by such events
seems too much and out of place. I think the film speaks for itself in
showing the responses of so many who helped the victims. The trumpeting
at the end of the film cheapens it just a bit. But this is a very good
film and slice of life of many people in Boston over four days in April
2013. All aspects of this film are excellent. Why the film didn't receive a
single nomination for an Academy Award is baffling to me. Especially
since the National Board of Review named "Patriots Day" one of the top
10 films of 2016. Nor did it do well at the box office, just earning
$50 million worldwide against a budget of $45 million. Why the turnout at theaters was so disappointing may say something
about the American culture less than two decades into the 21st century.
Hollywood turns out a plethora of fictional action crime films filled
with violence, murder and mayhem. And the public flocks to see those
films. And millions of people, especially the young to middle-aged,
play electronic games of the same type. But when it comes to seeing
what happens of this nature in the real world, people don't want to see
it. They turn a blind eye. Unlike many of the fiction flicks that show the local police and FBI as
mortal opponents, "Patriots Day" shows a realistic picture of law
enforcement units working together. One scene stands out where there is
a disagreement. John Goodman, playing Boston Police Commissioner Ed
Davis, wants the photos of the suspected terrorists released to the
public. He notes that people may recognize them and give the police and
FBI leads. Kevin Bacon plays FBI special agent Richard LesLauriers who
doesn't want the photos released. He wants to get more information and
says that releasing the photos would alert the terrorists who would
then run. The photos were leaked to the press, and as the movie shows,
the terrorists ran. As a result, two policeman died and several others
were wounded. Had the authorities waited, they may have followed leads
to corner the terrorists in their home. The film shows three college friends of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev who were
convicted for interfering with the investigation and sentenced to
prison. When they see Dzohokhar's picture in the press, they don't
report it to the authorities. And they find materials for making bombs
in his locker. One would hope that these low-life characters aren't
indicative of a large segment of the youth in our colleges these days. An even more interesting scene is that in which Tamerlan Tsarnaev's
wife, American-born Katherine Russell (played by Melissa Benoist) is
questioned. This most likely was recorded, so the film dialog may be
what she actually said. In response to a female FBI agent, she says,
"For a Muslim woman, marriage is a lilting dance of duality – strength
and submission. Beautiful, selfless, rapturous love of two masters, the
carnal and the divine. The life a Muslim woman lives is a dangerous and
difficult one, for if she does not submit to her husband, there is a
spot reserved for her in hell. Yes. My husband kissed me before he left
and he will kiss me again when I see him in heaven. And you can't prove
anything."While Wahlberg's Tommy Saunders is a fictional character, he has one
good line toward the end that doesn't have a single F-word. Describing
his take on the eve of the bombing to a fellow cop, Tommy says in part,
"That's all I saw today. Good versus evil, love versus hate. The devil
hits you like that, there's one weapon you have to fight back with –
its love. That's the only thing he can't touch."This is not a movie for the faint of heart. But it is one most people
should see. If for no other reason, than to be aware of the reality and
horror of terrorism.
