7
Engaging Science Fiction

"Ender's Game" (2013), directed by the South African Gavin Hood, is a
military science fiction film based on Orson Scott Card's cult novel of
the same name from 1985. It's a film that is more complex than it
initially appears, the exposition-leaden opening thankfully not an
indicator of what is to come, with Hood using cinematic techniques to
tell the story rather than using any trite narrative clutches such as
voice-over. Instead, the script (also written by Hood), introduces the
figure of Ender, played by a marvellously cold Asa Butterfield, and his
submergence into a future world of complex military strategy. The
presence of many other child actors, even the Oscar-nominated Hailee
Steinfeld and Abigail Breslin fail to make much impact. Yet this isn't
a downside as much as it appears; Ender is supposed to be isolated and
withdrawn, and it is appropriate for a film seen through his eyes that
we scarcely get to known anything more than the broad strokes of
personality from his compatriots in "Command School".The older members of the cast though, disappointingly, don't register
as much as they need to. Harrison Ford's Colonel Graff is rather
one-note, only Ben Kinsley's unconventional character Mazer Rackham
being memorable. The script fairly abandons them all to the sidelines
and favours Ender above all else; thankfully, Butterfield is more than
capable to meet that challenge, delivering an excellent child
performance for a none too likable character. He's the film's strongest
point.The direction is good, even exhilarating in the scenes of stimulated
zero gravity battle. The $110 million budget has been well used,
credibly creating orbiting space stations and ships. The future
imagined isn't so far from are our world, the suspension of disbelief
on the part of the audience not so great. It follows the path of films
as diverse as "2001: A Space Odyssey" (1968) and "Minority Report"
(2002) that realised the future is made more plausible by having ties
to the present.Unfortunately, the ingenious twist ending, which probably works better
on the page than it does on the screen, has, by necessity, almost to
mould the movie in reverse leaving a curious sense of distance and lack
of tension to the climax, while the epilogue goes into a bizarre realm
which feels out of tone with the rest of the film.The film is still an enjoyable science fiction movie, professional and
well-made, but it suffers from the feeling it may have even been better
had it been braver in adapting the source novel and not felt so obliged
to try and translate aspects of it that don't work on the silver
screen.
