10
Lyrical and Beautiful Film

First of all I have to say that it is a low down dirty crime that this
excellent film did not receive wider distribution and a decent
marketing campaign! "Byzantium" is an exquisite gem that, thank God,
has not been lost on some of us. Had it been widely released I would
have gone to the theater over and over. It would have been worth every
penny. However I am only able to do that here at home. I just caught
this last week for the first time on Showtime. I was reluctant at first
until I saw that it was a Neil Jordan film. Mr. Jordan has refused to
cow-tow to the bottom line and continues to make thoughtful and deeply
intellectual entertainment. But as any artist will tell you
entertainment is not their end goal. Exploration of the human spirit is
what they're after. That is what the best stories offer. The name Byzantium can be interpreted as a metaphor for change; for
something ending and something beginning, or built on top of the past.
That is where this story takes place. Clara and Eleanor return to the
place where their story begins. For both of them it's the ending to
that story, and the beginning of another. The script was multi-layered
and eloquent, weaving the story on a dreamy Gothic-modern loom. I can't
wait to see more from Moira Buttini! It's nice to see and hear a female
voice for a change. This is not your typical vampire movie, which has
become very tired of late. Character development is the important
aspect of film making, and that has not been forgotten here. The
direction and editing were impeccable. The score by Javier Navarette
was absolutely beautiful and spot on. And the use of the Beethoven's
Sonata Opus 2, No. 3 set the tone and juxtaposition of past and
present. The scene of Eleanor playing that piece in the convalescent
home and her first meeting with Frank, the catalyst for Eleanor's
change, is haunting. That's what really anchored the first act for me
and drew me in. The set direction and cinematography were equally
superb. Now for the acting: Gemma Arterton was a revelation as Clara. She gave
such depth, passion, and pathos to what could have been a totally
unlikeable one-note character. Saoirse Ronan is hands down one of the
best young actresses today, proving once again that she can carry a
film easily on her oh-so-young shoulders. Those incredibly blue eyes
and mature screen presence made me believe she was 200 years old.
Another wonderful revelation was Caleb Landry Jones who surprisingly
matches her at every step. Their chemistry was palpable. I had to see
what else he has been up to and ordered "Antiviral" on Netflix last
night. This kid has some serious acting chops! Syd March and Frank are
polar opposites of each other, and yet played with the confidence,
bearing, and aplomb of a much older actor. I fell in love with this
young man who has proved himself to be a true artist. His Frank is
heartbreakingly vulnerable, sweet, and painfully awkward. With that
soft gravelly voice, tall, lean, lanky body, those farm-boy blushed
cheeks, and soulful eyes he reminds me of a young Brad Pitt. In this
movie he proves that he can play the romantic leading man which I'm
sure he will be doing again very soon. I can't wait to see both he and
Saoirse up for Oscars in the not too distant future. Through their
perfect pitch performances you can feel that due to Frank's lifelong
illness and her immortal "condition" leaving them both desperately
lonely that their shared isolation is what attracts them to each other
and binds them in deeper ways than even they know. I also loved the
scenes on the mysterious island in the ancient shrine (possibly to the
goddess Hecate, which the Byzantines worshiped?) of the nameless saint
as Darvell calls it. He also says that his gods are more ancient than
Christianity. The Divine Feminine? How ironic that it's been hijacked
by an mysoginistic fraternity. I think it fits. When Eleanor enters she
is confronted with her mirror image and the "turning" is gentle. When
Darvell enters and confronts himself, his "turning" is very violent.
They are very different in nature. After all, in ancient myths it was
called a place of healing. Eleanor has taken on an Angel of Death
persona relieving pain and suffering. She is the epitome of mercy. The
fraternity eschews mercy as Clara notes. When a director shows you
something twice he wants you to take note. I'm ordering the blu-ray
disc of this movie, not only to add to my collection, but also to show
my solidarity and support for excellent film making. I gave it a 10
since I am so tired of the crap that gets shoved down our throats,
while beautiful works of art like this are ignored. I certainly hope
the distribution "rules" will change in the very near future. The
nearer, the better. This film should be re-distributed so that everyone
is afforded the opportunity to see this incredible film on the big
screen. Or, more succinctly...story. After all, this movie is about
stories. "I am Eleanor Webb. I throw my story to the wind. And never will I tell
it more. Another one begins..."
