5
A mountainous climb that left me lukewarm

Watched 'The Mountain Between Us' because the idea for the story was an
intriguing one and Idris Elba and Kate Winslet are very talented actors
who have both got great performances under their belts. That its
critical reception was mixed, with many leaning towards the negative,
made no difference to me.Seeing 'The Mountain Between Us', it could have been much better. The
potential was quite vast, there was a good film in 'The Mountain
Between Us' somewhere, it was like having lots of snow to begin with
then to find later on that it melts to slush. Is 'The Mountain Between
Us' an awful film? Not to me it wasn't. Was it great? Again from
personal opinion it wasn't, nor was it particularly good. It has good
elements sure but the latter stages of the film in particular bring it
down.'The Mountain Between Us' does have notable good things. The scenery is
beautiful and full of atmosphere, a wintry setting in a fight for
survival film has not in a while been more beautiful or chilling. The
stunning cinematography with some jaw-dropping camera angles impresses
even more and complements the scenery wonderfully, making it even more
striking. The music score is not a necessarily memorable one but there
is a brooding intensity that works well.Considering what they have to work with, both Idris Elba and Kate
Winslet are very good, he bringing charismatic gravitas and dignity and
she bringing fiery spirit and pathos. They both deserved better but
they really make the most of making things work. The dog is just
adorable with very natural and expressive acting, definitely the
character that one cares for most. There are some moments of peril that
are done with flair and atmosphere.However, most of the perilous scenes lack suspense and a sense of true
danger with it being too obvious what the outcomes are and some of it
in a contrived way. Slow pacing often is not a problem for me, there
are great films to masterpieces that have a slow pace but it works
because everything else is executed so well. With 'The Mountain Between
Us', the pace did drag, severely hurt by the lack of tension, and it
does feel like the film is 15-20 minutes too long.For the slow pace to not matter, the story needed to be absorbing, the
emotions and suspense to be there and the characters to be interesting
and developed reasonably (even if they weren't complex). Suspense and
tension is pretty much zero, the predictability and far-fetched nature
of the storytelling dilutes both, and when it comes to the emotions and
such the romantic chemistry between Elba and Winslet had more frostbite
than it had warmth, although the individual performances were very good
the chemistry was too cold and remote.None of the characters, apart from the dog, are interesting or worth
investing in regardless of the professionalism of the acting. The
characters are very flimsily developed, with their stories lacking any
insight or freshness and instead come over as clichéd and melodramatic.
'The Mountain Between Us' particularly loses its way in the final 30
minutes which honestly felt like it belonged in another film, none of
it rings true or resonates emotionally and the excessive slush would be
more at home in a film of a Nicholas Sparks book at its schmaltziest.Overall, doesn't have enough to generate much warmth but has enough to
not leave one completely cold. Lukewarm (somewhere in between) is more
like it. 5/10 Bethany Cox
