9
Don't judge a book...

John Carney is one of the few people working in movies today whose next
work I am always eager to see. Along with a few others such as Richard
Linklater, he has proved to me that you can take a premise which has
been explored many times before and view it from a different
perspective to create something that feels original and fresh. His
previous work 'Once' did this and is among my favourite films.Suffice to say, when I saw the trailer for Begin Again it simply did
not grab me. My first worry was that it looked 'too Hollywood' (read as
'cliche and predictable movie churned out to make money with little
care or thought for the story it is telling'). I felt a little worried
going in to see the film that somehow Mr. Carney had fallen foul of the
big producers, making sacrifices to the story in order to get some
'names' into it.However, around 20 minutes in, my hopes returned and I knew it was
going to be special... and it just got better from there. the film
builds on the story and characters as it goes on, making me care about
them, showing me things I had never seen before in similar movies and
above all, making me think. As the credits rolled, I was wiping my
eyes, partly from the wonderful soundtrack but mostly because Begin
Again is a magical film. It still has the 'spark' that I felt in his
previous pictures, a huge amount of love, passion and care that has
brought it into being - not just a half baked idea thrown out there to
pay back impatient investors. The soundtrack, performances and
well-crafted script took me on an emotionally rewarding journey,
leaving me feeling inspired, uplifted and a little nostalgic for times
gone by. yep, I am gushing, but it really is going to be hard to beat
for film of the year for me. Between the scenes, I also loved how it discreetly touched on some
important issues with throwaway lines, addressing things which people
take for granted these days: 'Music is for the ears, not the eyes.' and
'don't dress like you are easy' being two of them. Image is so
ingrained into art these days, the majority of people all seem to judge
a book by it's cover without looking inside. And the same could be said
for this film too. On the outside it looks like yet another generic,
manufactured Pop Idol... but if you sit down and watch it, I think you
will be pleasantly surprised that it has something profound to say and
says it well. Thought provoking, life affirming and highly recommended!
