3
Terminator meets Twilight Zone, Season 3, Episode 8

The near universal critical acclaim for 'Looper' is something I'm
having a hard time fathoming. I suppose we haven't seen a great sci-fi
thriller in such a long time, that as soon as a mediocre to average
flick such as this one comes along, everyone is jumping on the
bandwagon, practically calling it a masterpiece! My first problem with 'Looper' is the overall concept. A crime
syndicate in the future (2074)wants to dispose of its victims by
sending them 30 years back into the past and have them disposed of by
hit men, who they pay with bars of silver. Once these hit men (the
loopers) live their lives for thirty years, the syndicate decides to
dispose of them by sending them back to 2044, where they'll be disposed
of, sometimes even by their younger selves.It's explained that in the future bodies are 'tagged' so by sending
them back in time, they cannot be traced. But why can't the syndicate
send their victims in the present immediately back to 65 million B.C.
where they would probably be immediately eaten by a dinosaur or other
prehistoric animal, thus preventing the time-line from being tampered
with? And by cutting out the middlemen (i.e. the loopers) in this way,
the syndicate can keep all the profits for themselves.Once we're introduced to the novelty of the how the looper scheme
operates, the novelty soon wears off. We see Joe (Joseph Gordon-Levitt)
traveling to the cornfield and then performing executions one too many
times. Finally, there's a plot twist: fellow looper Seth appears at
Joe's apartment, explaining that his 30 year old self from the future
appears in the cornfield and he's unable to finish the job. Abe, the
enforcer from the future, forces Joe to betray Seth, who's tortured and
his alter ego from the future is hunted down. You might ask what this
has to do with time travel or science-fiction. Actually nothing--it's
simply all action-thriller at this point in time in the script.Soon, Joe finds himself in the same position as Seth. His 30 year old
future self (Bruce Willis) appears but manages to prevent younger Joe
from doing him in. In a rather derivative idea borrowed from the
'Terminator' series, Willis must dispose of a child who will one day
grow up to be the 'Rainmaker', the sinister figure in the future who is
now bent on eliminating all the loopers.It might have been interesting had we seen what this Rainmaker
character looked and acted like in the future, but that never occurs.
We're asked to be content with meeting little Cid, our future
Rainmaker, who has telekinetic powers coupled with a severe anger
management problem. One is immediately reminded of Billy Mumy in the
Season 3 Twilight Zone episode, "It's a Good Life", who plays a mutant
who terrifies adults by 'wishing them away to the cornfield'. So the
second half of 'Looper' feels much more like fantasy-horror than Sci-fi
action thriller.The meeting between the younger and older Joes in the diner is perhaps
the most interesting scene in the film as it underscores the contrast
between the more impulsive younger self with the more seasoned,
experienced older one. Unfortunately, there is hardly any additional
interaction between the two altar egos, with older Joe stalking off to
blow away Abe and his crew of malevolent meanies. In true Bruce Willis
fashion, the aging 'Die Hard' legend, is up to his old tricks, by
machine-gunning most of the bad guys, sans Kid Blue, who appears out of
nowhere on his flying motorcycle and immediately gets himself killed,
instead of Joe, who is his intended target.If the Looper second half feels a bit slower than the first, that's
because director Rian Johnson spends a little too much time out on the
farm, with Joe courting Sara (Emily Blunt). Although there's a feeling
that we've seen this before, the ending proves to be passable as we
finally have something to feel good about. Younger Joe sacrifices
himself, preventing older Joe from killing Sara. He does this after
he's able to foresee that Cid, growing up as the Rainmaker, will hold a
perpetual grudge due to the murder of his mother and will take it out
on all of humanity (including all the loopers) in the future.Unfortunately, Joe's sacrifice, is not enough to make either young Joe
or older Joe, likable. Younger Joe, before he takes his own life, is a
criminal and a drug addict and older Joe, is responsible for murdering
the second child on his list of three potential Rainmakers. In terms of
a sympathetic protagonists, there's little to like here at all.'Looper' is also unable to score points with its look at the dystopian
future. One feels that one is simply viewing a second hand set from
'Robocop'--in that film, 'Old Detroit' looks remarkably similar to
Looper's Kansas City of 2044 including the grimy 'futuristic' cars and
emphasis on vagrancy as a national blight.The performances in Looper are all acceptable, with an honorable
mention going to little Pierce Gagnon as Cid, who manages to handle a
number of complicated lines and take direction in a fashion way above
his chronological age.In the end, Looper proves only mildly interesting. While some of the
action sequences are entertaining, the sci-fi premise is not developed
into something clever enough to deserve all the the accolades that have
been heaped upon it to date.
