1
Overrated Garbage! Worst Spiderman Movie EVER!

Spideman: Homecoming was TERRIBLE and by far the worst spider-man film.
This movie was a HUGE set back for Spiderman but sadly we live in a
very tight lip controlled marvel press that have told us this is "great
movie" because it came from another soulless product cake factory from
marvel. This is the same Spiderman/Peter Parker from Civil War??? They
severely dumbed him down for his solo movie and turned him into whiny
clumsy idiot who screwed up constantly. Despite that Tom Holland is the
best on screen Peter Parker and Spiderman to date. He deserved a MUCH
better movie.I like Michael Keaton but his performance felt phoned in only to find
that Keaton turned down this role twice before excepting it. Not his
fault, am I'm the only one who thought the Vulture was lame? He was so
hollow and them tying it up with the whole Damage Control thing felt
forced and rushed.The high school stuff in this movie is awful. This movie was trying to
so hard to be a John Hughes movie and it failed miserably. Homecoming
was nothing like those movies. The teens in those movies were real,
they smoked, drinked, swore, and acted like real teens. The supporting
teen cast in Homecoming are nothing but terrible caricatures. Liz is a
stock love interest with all the personality of a dry brick. She's
useless and Laura Harrier and Tom Holland have zero chemistry. I never
bought that these two liked each other. All they're very few scenes
together are awkward. Flash was turned from a big jock bully bully into
a annoying little doucebag who's about as threatening as a newborn
kitten. Ned is stock fat friend comic relief who's not funny at all.
Michelle was some wannabe hipster Daria type girl who hate everything.
She served no purpose and the twist with character at the end was so
forced and stupid. Aunt May's transformation into an object of male
gaze/desire (and nothing more). No mention of Uncle Ben which is
ridiculous. I didn't need to see him die again, but replacing Tony
Stark as Uncle Ben's place as a father figure is absolutely ludicrous!Dull washed out cinematography. This looked like a TV movie. Michael
Giacchino's uninspired score. Bad CGI on Spiderman, it looked WAY too
cartoon. The action scenes were forgettable and had zero stakes. The
Rubble scene had potential but it was poorly done, rushed, and ruined
by water reflection with Tony's voice over. It's sucks because Holland
acted his but off in that scene. All the Avengers/MCU references were
forced and shoehorned it was eye rolling. The worst was the F, Marry,
Kill game with Thor, Hulk, and Iron Man during the gym class. Really???
Speaking of gym class, those Captain America PSA segments were unfunny
pointless filler. Jon Watts was a poor pick to direct this movie. His
direction is bland and uncreative. He also doesn't know how to direct
action scenes. At least the Raimi movie had their own distinctive zany
kooky style. Homecoming looks like every other MCU movie. This movie
also had 6, yes SIX writers and it's shows.The The forced diversity is so in your face. His best friends is
Filipino, love interest is biracial, his bully is Guatemalan, weird
girl is black, the Chinese and African kid on the decathlon team. No
story-line progression. The movie is Peter wants to impress Mr. Stark
to become an Avenger. That's.... it. The terrible childish comedy. "Hur
duh penis parker", "I was watching porn", "your aunt is so hot". This
is the comedy were supposed to laugh at? What was with the cringe built
by slaves comment in the Washington scene? That has no place in a
spider-man movie.Bottom line! Spiderman: Homecoming is another over-hyped Summer
blockbuster that will be forgotten about after a month which is exactly
what happened. These MCU movies have no staying power. I already forgot
Guardians 2 came out 3 months ago. By the way that movie also sucked
too!
