1
uninteresting plot and horrendous moral "lessons"

This movie is often seen as being an excellent action-humor combo
containing a great moral component. I will briefly try to explain while
it is neither of those things.First, I'll start by admitting that the humor present in the movie can
work if you put yourself in a certain mood. It is combined with a great
visual production aiming at putting you in that exact light-hearted
mood, which works fine. The problem is largely the plot: it is
uninspired (recycled) and things seems to happen as if they came from a
magician's hat. Of course, this wouldn't be a problem if the
random/surprising elements where entertaining. The problem is that,
while it somehow works in the beginning, where the evolution of the
plot make us discover Zootopia, the story becomes quickly bland an
uninteresting as the movie enter an action phase.As for the interesting moral components this movie is credited for,
they are inexistent. The whole lesson of the whole thing appears to be
that you shouldn't listen to your prejudices, and you should be
accepting of everybody. We could also add the classical: you can be
anything you want if only you would try hard enough. I would start by
saying that these "lessons" are so obvious and in-your-face that they
cannot have any effect on children. They are what the movie SAYS, but
in fact the movie DOES something very different. What it does is to
make a link between a character's specie and his personality (in direct
contradiction with the lesson about prejudice and promoting inclusion).
It also treat most supporting character as pure stereotypes based on
specie, which reduce their humanity in the eye of the viewer while
using it as joke material. So what the movie in fact does is to tell
you that large chunk of population have very few value, while those who
deserve respect are the ones who "work hard" to obtain and maintain
power over others, be it by wise manipulation or socially recognized
opportunity to exert physical domination of others (police). This also
implies that those who the film laugh at are deserving of their
situation, as they didn't work hard enough to raise above the masses.In short, this movie is a montage of jokes with a plot to support those
jokes, which tries to compensate for its lack of substance with
"lessons" that are nothing more than virtue-signaling.
