2
Exercise in futility

Almost ten years later, writer/directors Robert Rodriguez and Frank
Miller try to strike gold again with a second screen adaptation of the
Sin City graphic novels.Unfortunately, A Dame to Kill For suffers from all the afflictions of a
bad sequel: an overcomplicated plot forcing a resolved story forward,
recasting of previous roles and the addition of new but significantly
less compelling characters, and exploiting the spark that made the
first film great while still not having that magical appeal.Once again we find ourselves in hardened and corrupted town of Basin
City where the inhabitants exist and resist against the sinful city,
while others revel in its reprehensible environment.Producers started working on a sequel seven years after the initial
film was released. In that time Brittany Murphy and Michael Clarke
Duncan passed. Though they portrayed minor characters, their
characters, Shellie and Manute respectively, were vastly effectual and
favorites in the film. Rodriguez elected to retire Shellie, smartly,
but recast Manute with Dennis Haysbert, but he did not stop there. He
also chose to recast Devon Aoki's Miho with the exceedingly inferior
Jamie Chung and Michael Madsen's Bob with Jeremy Piven. Further, Clive
Owen's Dwight McCarthy is seemingly recast and played by Josh Brolin.
Mickey Rourke's Marv makes a surprise appearance considering he died in
the previous film. Eye candy Jessica Alba dons the stirrups once again
as Nancy but this time gets an unnecessary and boring principal role.It's almost impossible to write a summary for the film without giving
away key aspects of the plot. Note, the term 'spoiler' was not used
deliberately as nothing would be spoiled. Despite having several
fascinating and explicit story lines from the comics, Frank Miller and
Robert Rodriguez decided to force five seemingly unconnected and
irrelevant segments worth of content into a Sin City sequel that is
really a pointless prequel-sequel hybrid. Within thirty minutes at
least seven main characters and their associated stories, all in
infancy, branch out with no time to become invested or even care about
the outcome.The revolutionary awe and savagery of Sin City is gone. The inventive
techniques that made the first film extraordinary are exploited and
bludgeoned to death. Rodriguez and Miller over-utilize popping colors
against the stylized black and white motif so that the significance in
these items and moments diminishes to nothingness.The witty dialogue that succinctly dripped with a retro film noir edge
falls flat on the tongue of the, arguably, main character portrayed by
Josh Brolin. Brolin lacks the debonair and commanding force that Clive
Owen has in the first film. Peppered with lazy and lame metaphors, the
script sounds like the banal ramblings of a poorly followed twitter
account of a desperate writer. Example: "An atom bomb goes off between
my legs. A freight train barrels into my jaw." Then to keep up with the
gruesome and shocking content of its predecessor, A Dame to Kill For
randomly adds violence as an obvious afterthought.It is incomprehensible that, after seven years, the producers would
rush into filming besides a hefty paycheck with this paltry, tame and
inconsequential movie. A Dame to Kill For is painfully contrived and
completely pointless.For more FULL reviews, please check out our website.
