6
Tales  of  Halloween

Horror anthologies tend to feel irregular due to the abrupt switches of
tone and quality between the segments integrating them. Tales of
Halloween isn't the exception, even though the directors involved tried
to keep enough cohesion in the transition from one segment to the
other, something which helps to the flow of the film. Unfortunately, I
have to say that the general experience of Tales of Halloween didn't
leave me very satisfied. With 10 stories included in barely 90 minutes
(including the very long initial and end credits), there isn't any
opportunity of characterization or drama; the most each segment can
aspire to is offering some good gore scene, or some interesting
monster, or at least an ironic ending to give a different perspective
to the "horror"... which shines due to its absence in the whole movie.
Unlike other anthologies, Tales of Halloween doesn't count with an
"involving tale" to frame the short stories; instead of that, it
employs recurring elements, such as the voice of a radio DJ (vocal
cameo by Adrienne Barbeau), the film Night of the Living Dead on every
TV and the casual appearance of the main characters from one story as
extras in another segment. These are the stories: Sweet Tooth, which is
excessively simple even though its last scene is appropriately bloody;
The Night Billy Raised Hell, which offers a good performance by Barry
Bostwick, but its ending dilutes its impact; Trick, one of my favorite
ones, because on a short amount of time, its ingenious screenplay keeps
us interested in a sinister mystery gradually explained; The Weak and
the Wicked, typical and not very interesting tale about bullying,
despite offering a solid performance from Grace Phipps; Grim Grinning
Ghost, my favorite one, because it generates suspense with minimum
ingredients, while creating a good atmosphere and tense tone; Ding
Dong, another among my favorite ones due its appropriate black humor,
incisive pseudo-feminist content (a subject usually employed by
filmmaker Lucky McKee, the director of this segment) and visual
creativity; This Means War, moderately entertaining but not very good;
Friday the 31st, a parody of slasher cinema which isn't very funny,
even though I appreciated its big amount of gore; The Ransom of Rusty
Rex, predictable and not very interesting, but with a likable cameo
from John Landis; and Bad Seed, which is the one I liked the least,
because the humor doesn't combine at all with the serious elements. In
conclusion, Tales of Halloween didn't bore me, and it was certainly
made with good intentions and quite an affection for the horror genre.
However, I found the general experience mediocre. Maybe, the directors
didn't take this film very seriously, or they just were part of it just
as a mercenary job. However, Tales of Halloween earns a slight
recommendation due to the sporadic pros which keep the spectator
moderately entertained. Despite all my complaints, I would like to
watch a sequel of Tales of Halloween in the future, but hoping to see
less stories included, in order to give them time to "breathe" and
create the horror which wasn't achieved in this occasion. Sometimes,
the excess of candy ends up causing indigestion.
