1
"Badly done!"

I have been a James Bond fan for years, but this movie was just badly
bolted together. Why?1. How did Eve, who was chasing the train in the truck and barely
keeping up, suddenly get two or three minutes ahead of the train in
time to set up for when it emerged from the tunnel? The timing simply
doesn't work. 2. M orders Eve to "take the shot" three times. Bond
heard them, and Eve's complaint that the shot wasn't clean. So why
didn't Bond simply drop to the roof of the car and let her have the
shot? If she missed, he could easily resume his fight in the next
tunnel. 3. Why didn't Eve take a second shot at the henchman on the
roof of the train after she shot Bond? The henchman had enough time to
turn to her and all but wave a 'thank you', yet she didn't bother. 4.
Bond survives the fall from the train how exactly? He is on the roof
of a train moving at approximately 40mph when he is shot, catapulted
backward, and falls hundreds of feet into a river. Because he is
unconscious, he can not enter the water at a safe angle, and should
have been killed. As if this isn't bad enough, the unconscious Bond is
then swept over a high waterfall. The title sequences explain nothing
of his escape, and when they end, Bond is in a hut on the beach bedding
some girl. Not explaining his survival is a critical error which
borders on ludicrous, yet somehow the audience is meant to take it all
seriously. 5. It is clear that Eve is a poor field agent. Later, Bond
suggests that she simply doesn't belong in the field. However, this
raises the question: how did she acquire field agent status to begin
with? 6. Bond always attempts to keep collateral damage amongst
civilians to a minimum, and protects the defenseless. However in this
film, he allows the villains to do their dirty work before he
intervenes. 7. To this Bond, as developed in the last two films, women
quickly became anything but 'disposable pleasures'. The death of Vesper
Lynd in Casino Royale was a terrific trauma; when Ms. Fields is killed
in Quantum, he is again visibly angry. However, in Skyfall Bond not
only makes no attempt to save Sévérine (not even attempting to fight
the henchmen to provide a distraction until the backup he knows is en
route arrives), but he shows absolutely no glimmer of distress over her
death. In fact, his first response is a fast, and badly delivered, quip
about it being a 'waste of good Scotch.' 8. Silva had tried to take his
own life by a hydrogen cyanide pill. Instead of killing him, he merely
felt a burning sensation and had most of his teeth and jaw fell off.
Such 'suicide pills' kill; they do not merely give one a little
heartburn and bad teeth. 9. What was the point of Silva setting up his
own arrest? Ostensibly, it is so that he can talk to M one last time.
But why not just travel to London, abduct M from the hearing, and talk
to her before doing her in? 10. If Q was good enough to have invented
the security on Silva's computer, how was it that he was unable to stop
it from freeing Silva? 11. How did Silva know that within just a few
seconds of the blast an empty train would be coming through to
conveniently fall on and crush Bond, allowing him to escape? 12. The
1964 Aston Martin made its triumphant return in this film, but
unfortunately it did so in a way that created continuity errors and
glaring reboot issues. It is not a 'company car,' so it must be the
same Aston Martin that Bond won from Dimitrios playing cards in Casino
Royale. However, it has all of the Q-branch add-ons from Goldfinger If
this had been Dimitrios' car, why did it have the Goldfinger
configuration from Q Branch? This thoroughly wrecked the film's
continuity with the reboot. 13. What was the purpose of taking M to
Skyfall? In the film, it is openly suggested that the plan is a trap to
catch Silva, with M serving as the bait. However, if it is a trap, one
would expect Bond to create a scenario where they would have a
significant advantage. It is poorly explained why he doesn't want
backup (he depended on them for extraction from Silva's island); he
also takes no weaponry with them. Instead, the unlikely trio is forced
to create a "Home Alone" style defense of Skyfall which is doomed to
failure before it even begins 14. Why did the monk's tunnel lead, not
all the way to the chapel, but into the middle of the moor? A
half-tunnel is barely worth the effort to build. 15. When M and Kincade
enter the tunnel to leave the house, Kincade closes and locks the door
from the other side. Yet, when Bond decides to leave, he has no
difficulty simply opening the door. 16. Why would M and Kincade, while
secretly fleeing the attack through the moor in the middle of the
night, use a flashlight to illuminate their path? This could only be a
dead giveaway of their position to Silva and his henchmen. Why not just
pull out a Las Vegas-style neon sign and have M cry out from the moor:
"Oh, Silva, come and get us!" 17. Silva's death scene was preposterous,
and very nearly Monty Python-esque. Bond stabs Silva in mid-back with a
blade; it would have severed the spinal cord, causing instant paralysis
before death. Yet Silva bizarrely laughs and staggers toward Bond. 18.
There were many continuity mistakes introduced into the film through
sloppy editing (such as M's handbag in Mallory's office).Very badly done film.
