1
An empty candy wrapper

Let's be honest here: Life of Pi is a pretty looking movie with a
rather dismal plot, and a pretentious religious subtext thrown in there
for good measure.Life of Pi might not be a bad movie. Realistically it would get maybe a
4 or 5 out of 10, but seeing as there's so many positive reviews here
and all of them seem to be from either fanboys of the book, or people
who haven't seen very many movies at all, I figured a 1 would be best
to balance things out.No doubt the film has some humorous moments that are indeed very funny,
like the tiger peeing in Pi's face, Pi's "rules", and what not, and the
film has tons of pretty visuals. A lot of the film takes place on a
boat, and at times it looks like they used a real ocean to film it on.
Not to mention the jellyfish scene was pretty, it was almost like James
Cameron's Avatar. But... the plot is just so vapid and pretentious, it defies
description. Basically, the film throws around a lot of religious
references, and it takes up a good portion of the plot, but dear LORD
most of the time, the religious references were as subtle as bricks in
a drying machine. At times it's like the writers are smacking you
across the face with a bible. And when he father asked Pi (as a child)
early in the film "how many more religions are you going to convert
to?" (or something like that), I should have taken that as an
indication as how the rest of the movie would be.Oh and the many random moments which included (but weren't limited to):
the strange 2:35.1 Aspect ratio change where suddenly a bunch of fish
start flying out of the water into the boat (including WINGED fish that
seemed like a Michael Bay wet dream), a carnivorous island full of
meerkats (though to be fair, the meerkats scene was like a cuteness
overdose), and humpback whale bit. Yeah. There were parts of the film I enjoyed, but it honestly was just not a
very good movie. It was like eating a platter full of candy and sugary
sweets. Lots to indulge in and munch down on, but you've devoured
nothing of substance by the end, and you're left with a stomach ache.
And throwing a religious subtext in it doesn't mean the film is good or
anything... It's just pretentious.So yeah, like I said. Realistically my rating would be a 4 or 5 out of
10, but the 8.4 rating and amounts of 10/10 reviews here is just
ridiculous.
