7
Hits all the right notes, thanks to Hill and Tatum's excellent chemistry

If there's one criticism I have about 22 Jump Street, it's that the
movie feels too similar to 21 Jump Street. But is that really a
complaint? With 22 Jump Street, directors Phil Lord and Chris Miller
(The LEGO Movie) have created a massively entertaining ride, with more
antics from the characters we love, and better performances all around.This time around, they're going to college. Yeah, yeah, we've heard it
before. As Ice Cube says at the end of the first film, in which the two
went undercover at a high school, the tables have been turned and
they're going to college now. Schmidt (Jonah Hill) and Jenko (Channing
Tatum) must once again go undercover at MC State to bust another drug
operation, this time called WHYPHY (work hard? yes. play hard? yes.)What worked with 21 Jump Street works again in 22 Jump Street. The
excellent characters of Schmidt and Jenko are once again paired to make
a hilarious and charismatic duo. Their personalities clash once more,
but in a different way than the first film, and they get into even more
crazy shenanigans than before. This includes having a shootout in the
university library and busting a Spring Break beach party. 22 Jump
Street always keeps you on edge, wondering what will happen next. While
the plot is pretty standard and similar to the first film, you'll want
to stick around because you love these characters so much. New
characters such as Zook (Wyatt Russell) and Mercedes (Jillian Bell)
feel right at home within the crazy cast. Captain Dickson (Ice Cube) is
also in rare form, delivering some of the film's best moments.This is a testament to Hill and Tatum, who put so much work into
creating these characters. Jenko settles into the football team, and
makes friends at a fraternity, while Schmidt performs slam poetry and
does many walks of shame. Hill and Tatum are in top form. Their
chemistry is better than ever, making 22 Jump Street a hilarious buddy
comedy. Try not to laugh when Schmidt does slam poetry to impress a
girl, I dare you.What makes 22 Jump Street feel special is its self-referential attitude
and countless meta jokes. Police chief Hardy (Nick Offerman)
essentially explains why this movie was made within the first 10
minutes, saying "no one cared about the Jump Street reboot, but you
guys got lucky." It's a funny way to be self-deprecating and hilarious
at the same time. It plays to the audience's intelligence, rather than
making them feel stupid. Other references are more subtle, like when
Schmidt keeps asking about the film's budget. It all plays into a very
interesting and unique humor style. While there are plenty of raunchy
jokes (right in the crack), the film's best come from its
self-referencing.So, now for the all-important question: is 22 Jump Street better than
the original? With its meta jokes and its excellent characterization,
22 Jump Street is a rousing success, and matches the original in sheer
humor. But the plot feels too similar to the original. While this may
be a fault in the film's format, a few more twists would have been
appreciated. Still, 22 Jump Street is a hilarious ride, one definitely
worth taking.
