2
The Dressmaker is one of the most utterly bizarre films I've ever seen

What on Earth did I just watch?The Dressmaker absolutely cannot settle on a genre. When Tilly (Kate
Winslett) first arrives in town, it has the taste of a Western. There's
also a mystery element added regarding an incident in Tilly's past.
There's a romance in there, the abundance of costumes make it feel like
a period piece, a few scenes feel like a horror. Ultimately, most of
the film fits firmly into the category of comedy or soap opera. Many
scenes in The Dressmaker is competently made, but when they are strung
together, they so horrendously clash in contrast that the whole film
becomes an exercise in incredulity. Moments after a tearful scene over
a main character's body, we're laughing out loud at slapstick.The acting is the film's saving grace. Kate Winslett does absolutely
everything the horrendous screenplay asks of her. Her mastery of the
Australian accent is impressive and she is classy, funny, dramatic and
utterly gorgeous. Judy Davis is very funny in all of her scenes. Sarah
Snook cements herself as an exceptional Australian talent, portraying
both the ugly duckling and the upper class socialite she becomes later.
A look of haughty superiority is so genuine you will scrunch up your
nose at her. Hugo Weaving rips his character right out of Priscilla,
Queen of the Desert, but is so much fun about it that you'll forgive
him for his occasional overacting. Gyton Grantley and Liam Hemsworth
round out the cast and do solid jobs, even if Hemsworth still isn't
what I'd call a major talent. The gowns and dresses created for the
film are breathtaking and the cinematography is also splendid. The writing is utterly atrocious, again due to the banal mixing of
genres. The mystery is exciting to see unravelled but is ultimately
based off a character doing something so stupid and inexplicable that
it defies belief. Whenever Tilly's "curse" is mentioned I cringe.
Winslett's bizarre memory loss exists only to support the mystery.
Elements about Molly not remembering Tilly contributed nothing to the
film. Late in the film Hemsworth and Winslett share sappy romantic
dialogue and Hemsworth is forced to drop the awful line "It can't be
Superman. He's right here." Its a credit to him and Winslett that they
were able to get through even a single take of the film.The Dressmaker is one of the most utterly bizarre films I've ever seen.
It's simultaneously one of the greatest and worst movies I've ever
seen. That's the same category as Tommy Wiseau's The Room. Not great
company.
