8
A brilliantly entertaining fantasy outing by Wes Anderson

The Grand Budapest Hotel is the latest from Wes Anderson, and what
great fun it is. My review of Monuments Men pointed out that putting
the likes of George Clooney, Matt Damon, Cate Blanchett, Jean Dujardin,
Bill Murray and Hugh Bonneville in the same film was no guarantee of a
good film. Following that logic, what should we make of the following
turning up together: Ralph Fiennes, Bill Murray, F. Murray Abraham,
Adrien Brody, Willem Defoe, Jeff Goldblum, Jude Law, Edward Norton, Tom
Wilkinson, Saoirse Ronan, Owen Wilson and (a wonderfully made up) Tilda
Swinton? The answer is a near masterpiece of cameos that add up to a
highly entertaining and memorable film.In a complex serious of flashbacks, Tom Wilkinson plays an author
remembering his younger self (Jude Law) being recounted, a number of
years before, the life story of The Grand Budapest's mysterious elderly
guest Zero Moustafa, played by Abraham. (Are you still with me?)
Featuring strongly in this life story, Ralph Fiennes plays hotel
concierge and lothario Gustave H., seducer of his elderly and wealthy
guests. He is supported in this role – for everything outside the
bedroom that is – by trainee Bellboy, and Gustave's protégé, Zero (in
the younger form of Tony Revolori).Following the murder of one such guest (Tilda Swinton), Gustave is not
surprised to feature strongly in her will, awarded a priceless
Renaissance painting – Boy with Apple. This is much to the displeasure
of her son Dimitri (Adrien Brody) and his evil henchman Jopling (Willem
Defoe). What follows is a madcap pursuit across snowy landscapes,
various grisly murders, a couple of civil wars, some disconnected
fingers, a prison break and a downhill ski chase.All the cast seem to enjoy themselves immensely, but it is the
production design and cinematography that really shines through: every
single shot of the film is just a joy to look at, from the bright
pastel colours of some scenes to the oak-panelled finery of the elderly
lady's mansion. Beautifully crafted, beautifully lit,beautifully
costumed, beautifully filmed. Bringing a film out so early in the new
Oscar-year must be risky: but one can only hope that the voting members
have a long enough memory to recognise this movie in these sorts of
categories.There are some interesting crossovers to recent films: both 'The Book
Thief' and 'The Monuments Men' were filmed – as this was – in Studio
Babelsberg in Potsdam. No coincidence then that the steam train
chugging through the East European countryside looked startlingly
similar to that in the opening scenes of 'The Book Thief'; and if you
have Bill Murray and Bob Balaban in town for Monuments Men, then why
not stick them together for this film too? Simples! Alexandre Desplat
turns up AGAIN with another quirky and fitting score.All in all, if you like the quirky style of films of the likes of
Moulin Rouge then you'll love this. Highly recommended.(If you enjoyed this review, please check out my archive of other
reviews and while there sign up to "Follow the Fad"! Thanks!).
