5
Average at best

I'm not sure if this is supposed to be an actual account of what
happened, a loose fitting adaptation, or an interpretation, but as is
its only mildly interesting and doesn't deliver as an entertainment
piece.'Deepwater Horizon' and 'Patriots Day' are two recent examples of what
can be done with big screen adaptations of modern day disasters, and
even though the budgets are considerably off scale, the difference in
production from dramatisation is enormous.This film is OK, there is nothing to compel you to invest any real
interest in it as the story rolls slowly along. Aside from the actual
storming of the embassy on day six there are no significant differences
from day one to day six in the story. There is very little development,
real progress or advances in the plot. The position of the hostage
takers, the news crews, the government and the military is largely
static and what we really see is an elasticated period of negotiations
where the same demands are issued, no quarter is given, but no
development occurs. It makes for pretty boring viewing.The SAS look more like a rag tag bunch of weekend rejects than a well
trained elite squad, and by they time they've stormed the building they
may as well be a bunch of my mates on a paint-balling weekend. I won't
go into detail as I don't want to include spoilers but its a tragic
depiction of the British Armed Forces. They are made to look
disorganised, amateur and incompetent, a total insult to their
exceptional operation.The actual story is tedious. There are a few moments of excitement but
it simply isn't enough to relay events as they happened and expect an
exciting movie to unfold as a consequence. This film is like a Tandoori
Chicken meal where the chef forgot add chilli. A bland rendering with
no bite, flavour, or intrigue.Most of the roles are fairly minor with very little added on a personal
level of any sort. The only insight or depth we get is from a few
characters two of whom are hostage takers played by Ben Turner and
Aymen Hamdouchi. The other is with Max, the chief inspector played by
Mark strong. With the exception of Abbie Cornish who plays Kate Adie
with all the intensity of a cardboard cut-out, the performances are
pretty solid, but again there are no big parts here and most of the
cast has little more to do that stand around uttering overly British
phrases through thick moustaches.I didn't like it because it doesn't work as entertainment on anything
but a average level; if they wanted an information piece they would
have been better served making a documentary. I've no idea what the
producers and the director where trying to achieve here but unless
mediocrity was their intention, I'd consider it a failure.I don't recommend it.
