9
Another masterpiece by Gyllenhaal ... He always exceeds my expectations with every new film

Davis comes off as a somewhat cold, emotionless widower & can't seem to
feel a loose other than the $1.25 loose from a vending machine while
inside the Hospital. With so many family members morning he excludes
himself but instead begins a writing letter escapade for a refund but
really pours out some intimate feelings that he thinks is important at
the time to claim his case for his refund. A CS Rep reaches out who's
touched by his letters & he seems a bit stuck on sharing & knowing this
rep who actually read his letters. Shortly prior he move forward with
fixing an appliance that was last spoken about seconds before his loose
and strangely enough develops a sick obsession with taking things a
part with his red-box set of tools simply due to his curiosity of
breaking things down and seeing what they look like from inside out &
spreading them among the floor.... A metaphor in itself. This once
seldom financial investment banker, clean cut, routine driven man
finally breaks away from all that he was groomed for and was now all
that easy begins what seems like an out of control spiral to most but
for him he is finally paying attention to his surroundings rather than
doing all that he knows to be easy. Risk taking to most but to him just
not thinking and purely acting on his impulses as well as being
completely honest throughout each act. A few relationships were created
but also some were awkwardly being broken but not to Davis. This became
his moment to breakout his inner somewhat goofy fun child which
completely transformed his characters perception on screen.. This so
called downward spiral of his begins to come to a halt once he
discovered was hidden information as well an introduction of the
conspicuous driver of that damn old Station Wagen. He finally FEELS
something that he thought wasn't true in the start, comes in touch with
his emotions while takes his first steps out of destruction, rebuilding
the once broken relationship and together contributes what feels more
worthy to Davis's love & her legacy
