1
A ridiculously bad example of film making.

I have a theory on why so many people love this movie, despite what are
absolutely glaring flaws that many of us see.a) So many people waited 35 years for a new Mad Max movie that any
movie will do.b) The hype train around the "feminist" angles of the film had a bunch
of people voting an agenda and not the film's actual quality.Flaw One: everything is a ridiculously simplistic caricature. Gas Town makes gasoline. The Bullet Farm makes bullets. The War Boys
are an all-male army. Immortan Joe promises immortality. Furiosa is
furious. Mad Max is semi-insane. Splendid is beautiful. Capable is
capable. The Dag blurts things out. Fragile is fragile. The Knowing is
wise. Rictus Erectus is strong and tall.How bad does it get? The Citadel is patriarchal, and the director
doesn't want you to possibly miss this fact, so he has a "Dad" who
literally keeps The Wives in a vault and locked into chastity belts,
literally milks his Cows to produce Mother's Milk, visibly pines for
healthy sons so he can fill his War Boys, and literally sends those War
Boys off to die so they can enter Valhalla. That's pretty much every
negative stereotype about masculinity that you can dredge up, delivered
directly to the temple by a sledgehammer. And, of course the reverse is true: The Wives are all model beautiful,
fecund, and they pine for the Green Place where stuff still grows, and
who tends the Green Place? The kind and beneficent all-female Vulvolani
(yes, there's a tribe named for their frigging vulva) who loathe men
and carry around a cache of seeds in a medical bag. Do you get it? Masculinity kills, femininity grows. You don't get a much more blatant thematically, than two artificially
created poles, a male one around destruction and war, and a female one
around growth and fecundity. Miller's film reads like he's a 15 year
old, naive Utopian, not 70.Flaw Two: there's no plot. Female slaves flee the patriarchy in search of the mythological
matriarchy. They find out that myth doesn't hold up to reality, and
turn around to topple the patriarchy. The entire movie is the car chase
away from the Citadel, and then the car chase back to the Citadel.Flaw Three: Non Sequitor after Non-Sequitor after Non-Sequitor. In a film where the land is referred to as poisoned and tainted,
repeatedly, and it's alluded to as being irradiated to the point of not
being able to bear life, such that even the Green Place gets tainted
and decays, The Citadel manages to grow all sorts of plants, just by
drilling for water, and the Many Mothers still have viable seeds.
Selective radiation for the win!In an all-male society, where women are literally enslaved, Immortan
Joe just turns a blind eye to very female Furiosa, lets her compete
with the men of the War Boys and rise up through the ranks to become
Imperator? And we're expected to believe that she does this despite the
role being filled by an ex-model, and despite the fact she's only got
one arm? I guess he can turn that patriarchy off, after all ... at
least when the plot needs a Deus Ex Machina on demand. Immortan Joe values his wives so highly he locks them into a vault and
into chastity belts, but a housekeeper can spring them and somehow gets
access to a shotgun when most of the War Boys don't even have firearms?
Deus Ex Machina number two. Mad Max is feral, having clearly survived for years in the wasteland by
his wits alone, but he's caught in the first two minutes of the film in
a cinematic afterthought? Deus Ex Machina number three.Nux needs a "blood bag" to survive, and Max is a valuable universal
donor, but they strap him to the front of a vehicle going into combat,
in the desert, while driving at high speed? Deus Ex Machina number four
and five, this time to justify why Max is even in the film that's named
after him. Max has just beat her up, then shot at her, commandeered her vehicle,
and attempted to flee, but Furiosa teaches him the code to avoiding her
kill switch on the rig a few minutes later? Everyone's paranoid
survivalists in the wasteland ... except when they need to cooperate to
forward the plot, apparently.The Knowing discovers the War Boy, Nux, hidden on the rig and she
instantly falls for him, and he for her? From enemies looking to kill
each other to mind-lovers, in one scene? Of course, it has to happen,
because Nux has to sacrifice himself to save those lovely, lovely women
at the end of the film. The shoe-horned quasi romance is Deus Ex
Machina number 987.Furiosa is just one of Joe's Imperators, but when she returns with The
Wives, the entire Citadel fêtes her like she's the second coming of
Christ? Not one of the dozens of semi-brainwashed War Boys in training
decides to fight back? Immortan Joe's midget son doesn't command them
to fight her? It's essentially a religious cult, but apparently the
only fanatics are in the cars.Flaw Four: this isn't a Mad Max film.It's clearly a set up to transition from Mad Max to Furiosa going
forward in the series. Anyone who can visit Wikipedia knows that the
next movie is Mad Max: Furiosa directly. Max has a dozen lines, spends
half the movie chained up, and is clearly not the protagonist.Don't jerk people around, Miller.Summary: this film took literally 12 years to make and for half of that
period, the film didn't even have a script and worked solely from a
story board. It shows.
