1
Worst. War movie. Ever.

If you don't know anything about the war, it was a great movie.
However, where does Troy start? How about with the opening credits!
According to them, Hitler didn't declare total war until April 1945,
not in Feb 1943. Credit for showing the personalised detail of the
tank, inside and out, where each crew stows gear etc differently from
other crews. Well done there! However, on the inside there is a
collection of medals that have been taken as trophies. Fair enough
you'd think. Except there is a Mothers Cross as well! As if any mum
would be walking around Germany in late '44 or'45 actually wearing her
Mothers Cross! Even if by some chance there was such a mother, are we
to believe Brad would strip it off the body of a (presumably) dead
women as a trophy? From memory there was also an EK2 on ribbon in the
tank, they weren't worn with the ribbon attached, so where did he find
that Troy wonders? These are very simple things to research, blunders
like this do not and should not happen. The deplorable scene with not one, but two German anti-tank guns
failing to hit Shermans from 100 metres, maybe with school boys firing
them but not with experienced artillery crews, those Shermans would
have been toast. Then there is the scene where the Sherman comes into a
town, without clearing the houses out with infantry first. What is
stopping some of the sneaky Germans who are hiding up in the houses
from blasting the Sherman with a Panzerfaust? Nothing! Except
apparently, even though it's April 1945, and there were a gazillion
made, well, only over six million, these guys didn't have any? So they
attack the tank with a machine gun - d'uh! Then there is the atrocity when the 75mm anti-tank shell BOUNCES OFF
the Sherman from 30 metres range! It would have gone straight through
not bounced off. Now we get to the disgraceful Tiger tank scene. A
Tiger could knock out a Sherman from well over 1100 metres away, so
what does the dumbest Tiger commander in the Heer/Waffen-SS do? He
misses with his first shot from 700 metres away, then proceeds to drive
forward and engage five Shermans from way closer than he ever needed to
do. While he does knock out four of the five, he ends up engaging Brad
Pitt from FIVE METRES away! Naturally, dumbkopf lets Brad get behind
him and gets knocked out. A travesty if ever there was one, he could have just stayed 800 metres
away and knocked out all five Shermans. Oh, Troy forgot the pointless
(and war crime indictable) exercise when Brad makes the new guy shoot a
German prisoner in the back just to toughen him up. Now, the horrendous
and totally ludicrous end scene. Fury hits a mine and blows off a
track. Whilst being repaired, they become aware of 200-300 crack
Waffen-SS men, armed with MG42's by the score, and Panzerfausts,
marching and singing towards the disabled Fury. They're looking for
trouble! Brad says he's staying, and then the others stay too for the
final showdown. Did Troy mention the Waffen-SS had shouldered Panzerfausts? Brad has
this ingenious plan to pass the Sherman off for a knocked out tank,
while the five valiant US tankers hide inside. When the hundreds of
Waffen-SS stroll into view, and a couple of them climb up onto Fury to
check it out, when they open the (unlocked) hatches, they are quickly
shot and then it begins! Did Troy mention they were carrying
Panzerfausts? They start getting mown down left, right and centre by
the Sherman's machine guns, not to mention the main gun taking out
scores of evil Nazis who are just running around in a panic, instead of
reacting like well-trained men who have years of Eastern Front
experience. Literally a hundred must have been shot! FINALLY someone remembers they
have some Panzerfausts! Someone brings over a BOX containing four of
them, what the hell happened to all of the ones that were being carried
only minutes earlier? From point blank range, one misses! And another!
At last someone scores a hit, and all it does is kill one guy inside
the tank! It would have TOTALLY destroyed it from 3 metres! Not Fury!
On and on it goes with SS guys getting killed like flies, until Fury
runs low on ammo. The commanding officer rallies his remaining SS
troopers with a sterling speech, then walks in the opposite direction
while his men charge off! He'd be leading from the front! Finally it's down to Brad and the new guy. Brad jumps out and starts
hosing even more SS with the .50 cal on the outside of the tank. A
sneaky SS sniper is crawling towards Fury, and fires...only to wing
Brad! And he's only 30 metres away! He fires again...and only another
flesh wound! He fires a third time...this one hurts! Brad slumps back
into Fury, then a couple of stick grenades get lobbed through the still
unlocked hatch, but these ones don't have the regular four second fuse,
not for Brad! Brad has time to order the new guy out through the bottom
hatch and as he's crawling away, they explode. Satisfied that everyone is dead, the SS come to order and start to
march off. THEN one SS guy decides to look under Fury,and sees the new
guy still alive. Now bear in mind he's just seen hundreds of his
kameraden killed, so what does he do? Looks at him then walks off!
WTF!?! The only good thing in the movie was that Brad was toting an
StG44! No stars! 15 mins · Like
