8
A Fun Movie (must watch)

Henny's Movie Review: Moana (aka Vaiana)In three words: A Fun Movie.With Pixar dropping the ball lately it is good to see that Disney is
picking it up with great movies like, Tangled, Zootopia and now Moana.
Yes, they made a mediocre over-hyped movie named Frozen, read my
previous review for my thoughts about that movie. Moana really doesn't
disappoint it has a good pacing, a great cast, and it is BEAUTIFUL. I
could just leave my review at this and tell you to go and watch this
movie, but let's see "How Far I'll Go".Moana is a story that takes place in Ancient Polynesia, when a curse
reaches the island Mata Nui a chieftain's daughter is determined to go
on a journey, to find a demigod named Maui in order to stop the curse.Like most Disney movies this is a coming of age story. Moana is a
chieftain's daughter who is struggling with her love for her people and
her love for the ocean. She is determined and a strong character. It is
wonderful to see her grow and find herself throughout the movie. She is
voiced by Auli'I Cravaljo and it fits like a glove, perfect love her
accent. Moana is joined by a demigod named Maui. He starts out as an
egotistical/funny character but we quickly learn why and see him change
for the better. He is voiced by Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson and if you
know The Rock YOU know what to expect. You can never go wrong with The
Rock.Other supporting characters were there to setup the plot and
exposition.The music, as expected, was typically Disney which is a good thing
because I love Disney songs. After the movie you just can't get it out
of your head. All the scores were very good. It did the basics like
underscoring a scene but it also carried the movie for a huge part.The three-act-structure. Moana has a great beginning, good middle, and
a great ending. Furthermore, the pacing of this movie is fast in a good
way. It doesn't hold on to a scene for too long and the movie knows
when to cut.The cinematography was beautiful it really shows that the creators have
done their research. I love the bright colors and gorgeous sceneries.
It would appear that Disney's new approach to movie making is starting
to pay-off, by remaking their old animated movies into real-life and
mocking their old movies with their new 3d-animated movies, they are
breathing new life into their movies. As aforementioned in the
introduction Moana is a must see movie that won't disappoint.I give this movie a 8.5.
