7
7.5/10

The Lord of the Rings trilogy is my favourite movie of all time. But my
passion for middle earth doesn't stop there, I am obsessed with this
world and in love with the vastness and complexity of its characters
and stories. So, did I like the movie? Yes, a lot. Was the movie
actually good? That would be more debatable. Before I go into the thick
of this review, I just want to remind that I really like the movie, but
if it seems that I am highlighting only the negative points it is
because they are so frustrating.Everything that is wrong with this and the other two Hobbit movies are
basic filmaking decisions that are wrongly taken. This is to say that
Peter Jackson's brilliance remains, he gave proof in all of these
movies that he knows how to direct his films. There is nobody in the
world that knows how to stage a battle like him. He takes us through
amazing visual choices and complex staging flawlessly. The fluency of
everything is magnificent, thanks to an amazing pace. Despite me
thinking about the wrongs of it, I could not help but be flattered by
the sheer epicness of this. I was genuinely on the edge of my seat, I
felt amazing tension at times, I really loved the experience and was
attached to the very end to the characters. Every one of them. The
duels were fantastic, it was all riveting. But there were simply
decisions that were made early on that took away from it.Why are these movies shot digitally! Other than looking very bad it
does not make sense. The whole 48fps, 3D, digital shooting was a
mistake to being with. These films shot have been shot on film, just
like the Lord of the Rings, it would have given them a thousand points
more. The whole CGI is just too much. There isn't any of the
practicality from the first movies and it shows so bad. Digital masses
of everything that have no weight and look way too bad for a
500million$ production. I am convinced that by shooting on film and
loosing half of the CGi in favour of practicality would make these
three movies ten times better. To this point by removing half of the
CGI we could also remove all the extravagant madness that comes from
it. There are scenes or monsters in this film that would have never
even passed first draft back in the Lord of the Rings, because they are
so weird and out of the moment (talking for example about that Legolas
moment in this one, those of you who have seen the movie understand
me). Other than this you do not waste time on characters we don-t give
the F***K about! I am really OK with making three movies out of the
Hobbit, you know if it's the last time we visit Middle Earth we might
as well throw in everything that Tolkien wrote that could fit in. But
lets not waste time on Alfrid or the Governor! You know three two/hour
movies could have really made it! Anyways, I don't want to indulge in
my frustration too much because it would be a waste of time. Go see the
movie if you-re a fan like me, you won-t be disappointed more than you
were with the other movies. They are really good, but they could have
so easily been f****g great!
