1
I couldn't give it a zero.

This movie is terrible. Honestly, can you be surprised? It's a movie
that's been remade and rebooted a hundred times, who can expect the new
"sequel" released the first week of January to be good? I mean I saw
this movie on Netflix smashed out of my skull and honestly I just
wanted to see some cool kills, fun campiness, a little tittage, and
maybe, just maybe, passable acting and a decent story to hold it
together. I got none of those with Texas Chainsaw 3D. Not a one.Boobs are teased all throughout the movie but it's all tease and no
show. That's a weird way to start the review but I mean why in the hell
would you put a ton of clear ass shots whenever these girls are walking
around and not throw in a couple nip slips? Ugh, whatever.I really can't go down the checklist because everything about this
movie is awful. Every single goddamn thing. I won't spoil anything but
they butcher Leatherface in this movie, even more than they did in
other remakes. But this is actually a "sequel" which makes it even more
f*cking stupid. They show footage of the original film at the beginning
as if to give a recap of its "predecessor" and you start off like "okay
they're doing something different at least" but within the first ten
minutes it gets so unbelievably dumb. It's an achievement how dumb this
movie is, really. Even Leatherface deserves better than this.I'll sum up the plot as quickly as possible: The pretty eyed slut from
True Detective (Alexandra Daddario) inherits a house from her
grandmother who was there during the massacre of Leatherface's family
20 years ago or something, because pretty eyes was the baby that
survived the massacre, which makes her Leatherface's cousin. But
Leatherface survived the massacre too and doesn't know this girl even
exists. So she and her friends decide to go to the house but of course
Leatherface is still there up to his usual shenanigans, and the body
count ensues. But in a peculiar turn of events, on the way to the house
they pick up a hitchhiker that looks like an Abercrombie & Fitch model
(a clear homage to the first film) and when they get to the house, the
hot chick and her dumb friends realize they forgot something or for
some stupid reason they have to leave. So this idiot girl who was
blessed with this gorgeous million dollar mansion from out of nowhere,
lets the hitchhiker HOUSESIT after knowing the guy for a whole FIVE
F*CKING MINUTES. I can't stress enough how dumb this movie is.So then I started watching Texas Chainsaw as a comedy, and I gotta
admit, I got a few good belly laughs. The acting is hysterical, the
dialogue is even more ridiculous, the 3D attempts are hilariously awful
- almost every scene in this movie is comedy gold. I would give it a
high score as a spoof but this movie clearly is trying to be serious,
which makes it all the more sad (and funny... but sad). The lead
actress is blatantly just there as eye candy. She can't act worth sh*t.
And guess what. She's the best actor in the movie!Maybe it's just because I watched this after The Babadook, I don't
know, but I really really hated this movie. The writing is some of the
worst I've ever seen in a movie. I guess it holds some merit as a
"horror" comedy, assuming you can get past the fact that there are no
scares, no boobs, no worthwhile gore, no good kills, no good actors, no
suspense, no {insert anything else required for a good horror movie}.In conclusion, Texas Chainsaw 3D sucks balls. It's just a disgrace to
horror films and is the epitome of everything wrong with the genre
today. It's an abysmal, horrific, blasphemous, piece of sh*t, Hollywood
fartpile of a movie. F*ck you Texas Chainsaw. F*ck you with a chainsaw
right up the ass.
