4
Heavy Action Like a Sgt. Rock Comic Book - wait for cable

I have already seen Lone Survivor and it was not to my liking
unfortunately. I feel the film is completely absurd with 4 Americans
shooting and killing about 100 Taliban who continue to attack in waves
and are slaughtered while the Americans spend about half the film
rolling down a mountain and slamming into rocks and trees...the film is
based on a false premise of killing 3 goat herders or releasing
them...the actual answer is you hold on to them until the exact moment
you get safely into the rescue copter and then you let them go. If you
have to march miles and miles you take the goat herders with you. If
you can't march them any further you tie them to a tree. In addition,
the 4 Americans hunker down on a mountain top and don't appear to have
any clay-more mines with tripwires. These are normally set up around
the perimeter of an area where Americans are hunkered down. The
Americans also went into a combat mission with crappy phones...since
their cellphones suck it makes the rest of their fancy equipment and
diagram drawing of targets seem silly and pointless. The dialog in this
film is poorly written but the acting in and of itself is decent with
the best work done by Ben Foster. Mark Wahlberg plays it straight and
does not try and over-act and gives a good performance overall. In this
movie, the Taliban are brainless and have no problem with losing dozens
of seasoned fighters in order to try and kill 3-4 Americans. This is a
film where every single time the Americans fire a bullet there is a
Taliban going down in a large blood splatter and it seems like it takes
about 300 Taliban bullets to kill a single American. Yeah right. This
film is a propaganda recruitment film for the US military which in and
of itself is not such a bad thing. To be clear the US military is
filled with heroes fighting for America's freedom everyday....but this
film is more like a Sgt. Rock comic book....you have been warned...now
go see the film and write your own review!
