9
Way more magic involved than I had presumed

It really, really boggles my mind just how the brains of so many of you
people work. 90% of the reviews on here are exactly the same "the
stripping was the ONLY good thing about the movie". I couldn't disagree
more.I went into the movie with basically no expectations. In my opinion,
Soderbergh is completely hit or miss. He has classics like Sex, Lies,
and Videotape and stinkers like The Girlfriend Experience. This is the
only movie of his aside from Sex, Lies, and Videotape that I have truly
loved through and through.I don't know what people are talking about criticizing the acting. This
is one of the best roles I have seen Tatum pull. Matthew McConaughy is
perfect as the head slime ball. The lead who plays "The Kid" or Adam is
a completely believable representation of every guy who is in his shoes
in the world. And the sister Brooke, while coming off as a little
obnoxious with her grim stares around the beginning of the movie, had a
tough role to play but she did it with flying colors as well - by the
end of the film she becomes a quite endearing figure.The soundtrack was good. The camera work and editing was innovative.
There were some really cool montage-esque segments towards the middle
of the movie that actually worked really well and were pretty stylish.
The cinematography during the dance sequences are especially vibing and
impressive as well.People complain there is no plot or ending - I think these people must
be lacking depth or lacking a brain in general. From the very start,
the movie flowed very well, a slow and smooth grind into the world that
we will end up spending the rest of it's length existing in. The movie
maintains an impressive realism through the majority of it's scenes -
instead of trying to feel like a blockbuster feature, it feels like
what it would feel like in reality. The focus of the plot changes
slightly throughout the film, but stays open and interesting. And the
ending, I don't think could have been more perfect - if you take
nothing from it, well, you must be missing a lot of things in life.I dunno what else to say! This is absolutely one of my favorite
Soderbergh movies and easily one of the best movies I have seen this
year in 2012 so far. I recommend it to anyone with brains.
