6
Lame Story, Great Special Effects

In Los Angeles, the Fire Department Air Rescue pilot Raymond "Ray"
Gaines (Dwayne Johnson) will drive his daughter Blake (Alexandra
Daddario) to San Francisco since she has joined the university. He is
divorcing from his wife Emma (Carla Gugino) that intends to move in
together with her wealthy boyfriend Daniel Riddick (Ioan Gruffudd).
Meanwhile the researchers Dr. Lawrence Hayes (Paul Giamatti) and Dr.
Kim Park (Will Yun Lee) from the Caltech travel to a dam to check their
seismic studies and there is a strong earthquake collapsing the dam
that kills Kim. Lawrence discovers that the San Andreas Fault is moving
and will cause a huge earthquake in Los Angeles and San Francisco. Ray
needs to travel to help the victims from the dam and Daniel offers to
take Blake to San Francisco since he has a meeting in the city. Daniel
brings Blake to his office and while waiting for him, she befriends the
British architect Ben Taylor (Hugo Johnstone-Burt) and his younger
brother Ollie Taylor (Art Parkinson). When Ray is flying to the dam,
there is an earthquake in Los Angeles and he rescues Emma. When the
earthquake reaches San Francisco, Daniel escapes with Blake to his
limousine but the building collapses and she is trapped inside the car.
Daniel flees from the building and leaves Blake behind. Blake succeeds
in contacting her father but the cell phone dies. What will happen to
her?"San Andreas" is a popcorn disaster movie, a genre that was usual in
the 70's, but with state-of-art special effects. Unfortunately, the
lame and corny story is ridiculous. Ray uses the helicopter to rescue
his wife and daughter and destroy it. He steals a pickup truck; an
airplane from the hangar; and a boat to save his daughter apparently
with no consequences. His ex-wife Emma resolves all her issues with Ray
in the middle of the chaos. There is no cell phone, but the fixed-line
telephone works perfectly despite the destruction and havoc. Blake, Ben
and Ollie save the film. There is a tsunami and Ray drives the motor
boat in the middle of the debris and possible survivors as if he were
in a race. In the end, love is beautiful! My vote is six.Title (Brazil): "Terremoto: A Falha de San Andreas"("Earthquake: The
San Andreas Fault")
