2
Fine acting.  Script is trash.

In the late 19th century a common playwriting trope was to build a play
to moments of tremendous intensity where the star would astonish the
audience with the brilliance of his or her acting. The plays had no
real purpose other than to provide those moments; there was no dramatic
core, no purpose to them other than that. Those kinds of plays, like
"The Count of Monte Cristo", which O'Neill skewers in "Long Day's
Journey Into Night", are dismissed today as tripe, as dated and
manipulative nonsense."August: Osage County" is exactly that, only modern and written for an
ensemble cast rather than for a single star. Sure, the acting is very
good, but so what? Who cares? Where's the story? What's the point? Why
are we spending time with these people? Understand, my complaint is not that "August: Osage County" is
depressing, it's that it's cheap. Many fine movies are miserably
depressing, but they're honest, they're driven by something other than
a desire to create 'actory' moments; "The Swimmer" comes to mind, as
does "The Night Porter", and "Enemies: A Love Story", and "The Bicycle
Thief", and "Ikiru"... This thing, on the other hand... it feels like
Tracy Letts just piled misery upon misery upon misery for no reason
other than his belief that that gets you taken seriously. And
considering the awards the play received, he was right, which hardly
speaks well for the state of dramatic criticism.At one point (spoiler ahead), after he's already been larding the
suffering on with a trowel for quite a while, there's a death scene --
and while watching it I just couldn't help myself, I laughed out loud.Seriously, what is the point of this? In playwriting class, the first
principle they teach is that "drama is the day the change occurred". In
other words, if there is no chance of change, if the characters (at
least the protagonist) are not wrestling with an inner conflict that
could resolve itself several ways, then there is no drama. That's the
case with "August: Osage County". You might as well be watching a
B-Western for all the real depth there is to the characters. Each time
you're introduced to a character (with one or two very minor
exceptions) you know exactly who they are now and exactly who they'll
be at the end of the movie. It's just 'sound and fury, signifying
nothing'.In a word, trash.
