8
Now that is how you make the transition from a Korean to an English language film without losing your personal stamp and style

¨Know your place. Accept your place. Be a shoe.¨I was pleasantly surprised at how well Korean director, Joon-ho Bong,
made the transition to this his first English language film because the
style and tone of the film still felt entirely Korean despite starring
some well known Hollywood actors. I enjoyed this film so much that I
ended up watching it twice and that is something I rarely do. Based on
the French graphic novel, Le Transperceneige written by Jean-Marc
Rochette, Snowpiercer is an ambitious dystopian sci-fi film that
despite having a very absurd premise works really well thanks to Bong's
direction. It has some great performances with memorable characters,
several exciting action scenes mixed with bizarre comedic moments, and
a thought provoking metaphor on classicism. It is a bleak film but Bong
handled the material so well that it kept me engaged and interested.
Unfortunately the film does suffer from a rather unconvincing final
act, but for most of its running time I was so entertained that I
wasn't too disappointed.Snowpiercer takes place in 2031 after a failed global-warming
experiment has frozen all of Earth and wiped out all life. The only
survivors are the passengers of a super train traveling across the
globe with a perpetual-motion engine. Designed by Wilford, an engineer
who knew the experiment would fail, the train has been running for 17
straight years and a social class system has developed as the
passengers of the rear end live in extremely poor conditions. Here we
are introduced to a young man named Curtis (Chris Evans) who is trying
to come up with a plan to get past all the security guards in order to
reach the front section where Wilford is presumed to be. He isn't alone
on this quest as most of the passengers are upset for the abuse they've
suffered and the extreme poor conditions in which they are forced to
live in. A wise old man named Gilliam (John Hurt) who helped Wilford
design the engine, has been helping Curtis rally the men together.
Curtis's good friend, Edgar (Jamie Bell), is also awaiting the moment
to begin their revolution as things begin to get worse once the guards
take a few kids away from them. Tanya (Octavia Spencer) and Andrew
(Ewen Bremner) are among the victims whose children have been taken
away from them so they are also eager to attack. The first step of the
plan involves freeing Namgoong (Song Kang-ho), a prisoner who has a
special gift for unlocking the doors to each section, but the task
won't be easy as the guards will do what it takes to make sure they
stay at the rear section of the train.Bong has directed several successful Korean films like The Host and
Memories of a Murder, and in his first English language film his style
remains untouched. Despite having some scenes that borderline in the
ridiculous he somehow manages to balance those moments really well. For
example there is this huge action scene that he has set up between the
rebels and the guards who are awaiting them with axes. The bloody and
violent confrontation begins, only to be interrupted as the train is
approaching a bridge which serves as a landmark for the New Year. The
fighting stops for a few seconds as everyone begins the countdown and
admires the view of the outside world from inside the train, then the
violence and mayhem continue. There are several moments like this where
Bong perfectly balances these gorgeously crafted choreographed scenes
with moments of quirky comedy and twisted sense of humor. The best
example of this type of humor comes from the two characters played by
Tilda Swinton (who is unrecognizable in this film) and Alison Pill who
are terrific and steal the few scenes they are in. I really loved that
classroom scene that felt completely out of place with the dark tail
section of the train. I think it was those goofy moments that I enjoyed
the most in this film. It was a great sensory experience to get to
follow these characters through each section of the train and I have to
give Bong credit for his visionary style because as our heroes progress
to the front of the train things begin to get more and more bizarre and
you never know what to expect. The film is short of being a masterpiece
because the final 30 minutes are disappointing, but as a social satire
Snowpiercer worked better than other recent sci-fi films like Elysium.
It is a very weird and strange film, but it is really good and I
enjoyed it even more on my second viewing.
