6
Spectacular Moments, But Also Flawed

The Spectacular Now is a film with great potential that is ultimately
unfulfilled. The acting is excellent, especially Shailene Woodley's
performance as Aimee, and there are moments that are truly exceptional.
The scene where Sutter (played by Miles Teller) and Aimee are throwing
newspapers together shortly after meeting feels genuine and provides a
believable premise for how these two very different people begin to
develop a bond. And the lovemaking scene between them is a wonderfully
genuine and poignant depiction of the awkward but tender side of
teenage sexuality, free from the typical gratuitous nudity or crude
jokes.The film has major shortcomings, though. Too much is told rather than
being shown, and Sutter's character never really seems to grow. We are
told at the end of the film as he is rewriting his college essay that
he now suddenly gets it all and intends to change, but he also quits
his job because he can't promise not to come to work "loaded" and
crashes his car into his own mailbox while driving drunk shortly before
he has this supposed breakthrough. The scene where his mother is
telling him how different he is from his father and how he has such a
big heart would ring a lot truer if we had seen some of this heart
during the preceding 90 minutes of the film. Instead, we are left with
his mother telling us at the end of the film about the kind and
generous things he did in the third grade instead of being able to
witness any sort of similar kindness and generosity in Sutter's
behavior. It would take a miraculous leap for the viewer to believe
Sutter has really changed to any material extent when he shows up at
Aimee's college at the end of the film.Shailene Woodley's Aimee is genuine and lovable, but the viewer can't
help but feel she is being sucked into Sutter's destructive and
self-centered world and worry for her for the consequences. Aimee's
mother supposedly wants to hold her back from leaving home and going to
college, even though we never meet this mother and never see the
dynamic of this relationship. Perhaps the one arguably positive thing
Sutter does for Aimee in the entire story is to encourage her to stand
up to her mother about going to college and pursuing her own life, but
again, we never see any of this transpire and are only told what
happens.There were several lost opportunities in the film to show the audience
growth in Sutter's character that would have been much more effective
than his telling us in his essay. If the filmmakers really want the
audience to believe Sutter has learned something and grown in a
meaningful way, some indication that he had acknowledged and was
prepared to address his alcoholism is critical. And if we are to
believe that he actually loves Aimee, and not just that she is his next
best girlfriend option for now after being dumped by Cassidy, we needed
to see him demonstrate that love by something more than just giving her
a hip flask or showing up at her college at the end. Overall, the film is not an unpleasant experience, and the performances
are quite good, but one can't help but feel there was a lost
opportunity here for this film to be much more than it is.
