3
This is one very bad movie

Granted: 1. Not all Sci-Fi is amazing CGI, although it does have some
and is well done, 2. Not all Sci-Fi is not about amazing action scenes,
intense shooting, evil aliens and such, 3. Not all Sci-Fi is about
humans outsmarting creatures who possess and have mastered incredibly
advanced technologies, with basically sticks and stones. 4. It is
refreshing to see someone try to make a different movie.Nevertheless, this movie fails at everything it intends to do, it is
ridiculously predictable, except for them the timing of events, there
is some hopscotching of a few scenes, that in the end only adds the
thought provoking question of whether to make a baby or not knowing the
baby's future, being a father it is not an easy question, but that adds
nothing to this Sci-Fi movie, it would have been better used in another
movie context.Almost 2/3 of the way through the movie is already resolved and utterly
boring. Honestly, did anyone think they would not be able to
communicate with the aliens ?? Did anyone really think the scientist
was not going to end up with the translator ?? Did anyone really think
that having alien ships spread across the globe was not going to bring
us to the brink of war or force humans to cooperate ??? (this movie
actually does both), Did anyone really think that the bomb was not
predictable, and worst of all, it was not even properly justified in
the plot, I mean, two soldiers, of what I suppose are elite teams
surrounding the alien spacecraft, see this video of a guy ranting about
the aliens and become motivated to endanger all mankind, just by seeing
this video ??? Absolutely and completely not believable. Did anyone
really think she would change the future ???Truthfully, this movie has a good starting concept, but all of its
implementation, development, which there is little of it, is rustic,
basic and downright bad.Watch the trailer, has the best bits, don't waste your money.Really, I'm still wondering what was the point of this movie, I can't
believe there are people calling it a masterpiece, it's really really
bad !!!!!!!
