7
Predictable but Entertaining, Excellent Performances

I'm of the opinion that out of all the movie stars and would-be movie 

stars in Hollywood, Denzel Washington is one of, if not THE, safest 

bet. I say this because I don't think I've ever met a person who 

dislikes the man. In a culture that is built upon strong opinions and 

holding to said opinions fiercely (this is the backbone of the industry 

in many ways), it is a remarkable feat to put together a 20+ year 

career like Denzel has without drawing the ire of someone or some 

group. Age, race, and gender seem to matter not when it comes to 

Denzel, whose films almost always find a way to exceed expectations 

whether they are magnificent (Training Day, American Gangster) or 

wholly lackluster (John Q, Unstoppable). There is an overriding sense 

among a high percentage of moviegoers that if Denzel is in, so are 

they. Safe House, a solid if uninspired action thriller, has proved 

this theory to be true. 



Instead of the undercover investigations and shoot outs he expected 

when he joined the CIA, Matt Weston (Ryan Reynolds) has been relegated 

to manning a safe house in Cape Town, South Africa. He is bored and he 

wants some action, a desire that is all too well fulfilled at the 

outset of the film when former CIA agent-turned-traitor Tobin Frost 

(Washington) is brought to his house for interrogation. Soon after his 

arrival, a militant force arrives to take possession of Frost, killing 

the highly-trained team that brought Frost into the house. With no 

other option, Weston grabs Frost and makes a bolt for it, barely 

escaping the unknown villains who killed his comrades. With no other 

teams in the area, Weston's superior, David Barlow (Brendan Gleeson), 

tasks him with keeping Frost alive and in custody until he can be 

collected, a proposition which turns out to be much more difficult and 

complex than Weston would have ever imagined. With the assailants hot 

on their trail and Frost crawling deeper and deeper in Weston's head, 

the young agent must think fast and learn on the run before he becomes 

another casualty of a dirty battle that Frost has sucked him into.



There are a few departures from the main storyline at work within Safe 

House but these distractions are only there to lengthen the film and 

add some uninteresting depth. This film lives and dies on the 

performances of Reynolds and Washington, both of whom come through 

beautifully. It's been a rough year for Reynolds whose star status has 

been thrown into serious question with the failures of Green Lantern 

and The Change-Up. This role, however, is a better fit for him, 

allowing him to share the load with an established genre veteran 

instead of being relied upon to carry a major film on his own. I was 

pleasantly surprised at his ability to give Weston more depth than what 

you usually get with this sort of film and I thought he hit the right 

balance between being a half- terrified, inexperienced field agent and 

being that hardened, "see this thing through to the bitter end" 

character that Safe House had to have. Washington, meanwhile, is a tour 

de force, exuding both charisma and menace in just the right amounts. 

Always a commanding presence on the screen no matter what his role, 

Washington is at his best when delivering his lines in that quiet, 

calm, measured manner which he has become famous for and this is a role 

that calls upon that ability several times. I can't say that this is 

one of Washington's best portrayals and it's certainly a safer choice 

than I'd like to see an actor of his caliber make, but it is 

nonetheless a reminder of exactly why just about everybody digs what 

this guy has been selling for two decades. 



Every other element of Safe House plays second fiddle to the work done 

by the two leads. The action is intense and somewhat gritty; when a 

shot is fired, you feel it as much as hear it, a characteristic I quite 

like in a serious action film. The plot itself is rife with 

generalities and clichés, making the film about as paint-by-numbers as 

they come. Personally, though, I didn't get caught up in these 

half-hearted missteps too often. Better choices could certainly be 

made; the major "twist" could be seen from a mile away and the 

conclusion was unsatisfactory for me. But given director Daniel 

Espinosa's relative inexperience behind the camera and the sheer power 

of Washington's star appeal, these are issues I found easy to overlook 

as the film progressed. It's nothing new and it's not a film I want to 

watch a dozen times over but for what it is, Safe House provides an 

entertaining and appealing experience.




