5
Missing the basics of a great TMNT movie

Like many other people, the original 1990 "Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles" movie has a very special place in my childhood. Even if the
movie wasn't all that great, it was fantastic for what it was trying to
be. Now we're in 2014, where our beloved turtles have been given a
whole new lick of paint with a straight-up reboot and have the daunting
task of winning the long time TMNT faithful over. Needless to say that
for the most part, I am one fan that was not entirely won over.First and foremost, the Turtles. What is the fundamental premise of the
TMNT? They're wise-cracking, pizza-eating, energetic teenagers that
just so happen to be mutated ninja turtles that fight crime. The
Turtles are goofballs, but in 2014, it's a little bit of a different
story. There's still the humor, the jokes and comedy, but now the
turtles are massive 6-foot-tall, muscle-bound turtle-men who have a
very gritty feel to them, and when they're not in action, look way too
real and off-putting. If they weren't green and didn't have shells, the
Turtles would literally just be your average hulking action heroes.
This franchise is about giant turtles who do martial arts. It's a goofy
concept. Giving the Turtles a gritty makeover seems to miss the appeal
of the characters in a fundamental way. However, despite the poor
design choice of the Turtles, they really are a joy to watch. It might
be a lot more serious than you'd expect from TMNT, but the Turtles are
still wildly entertaining and more action-fueled than ever with the
help of solid effects and choreography that bring the Turtle action to
life. If you can withstand the eyesore that the Turtles' design brings,
then there is still a lot of old school TMNT magic to revisit.For the movie's main plot, you have what is essentially the most
painfully basic, generic action story that a film can get. The movie is
so predictable, it's almost laughable. What is also very disappointing
is that the Turtles are no longer fighting crime, even though that's
what is essentially believed, but a basic supervillain. Yes, the
ultimate TMNT villain Shredder is in the film, but not only does he not
get the screen time or proper development he deserves, he's basically
cast aside as a secondary villain to the "I'm rich but have to get
richer" villain that is Eric Sacks. It's disappointing to not be able
to see the Turtles fight their way through dozens of foot soldiers like
the old days, with all of the witty remarks during combat intact. There
are still funny lines sputtered during combat, but the action scenes
are so limited that there's simply not enough of it. Not helping is the horrendous casting of Megan Fox as April O'Neil. In
1990, April O'Neil was the hot shot news reporter that made the amazing
discovery of the Turtles and she developed an amazing bond with them.
She was important to the story no doubt, but wasn't essential in the
Turtle's story. Fast forward to 2014, and now April is nothing but the
center of attention for everything in the movie, even essential back
story information about the Turtles. Megan Fox amazingly gets much more
screen time than the Turtles, and every time she comes on screen I
cringe until our shelled heroes return. Not every action movie has to
have an epic story line or to feel gritty and real. TMNT is supposed to
be all about the opposite, but the unfortunate presence of producer
Michael Bay is clearly felt in the direction of the film. From the
camera shots, to the serious tone of the action to the slow motion
parts, this movie has too much of a focus on seriousness, when it
should be taking itself very lightly. Like I stated earlier, despite the off-putting design and feel of the
Turtles, they still are a lot of fun to watch and are the lifeblood of
the film. What is missing, however, is the strong character development
of the Turtles. There isn't enough down time in the movie to really get
to know them. Some of the best moments of the 1990 film were in the
form of the Turtles hanging out, making jokes, eating pizza and
training together. That chemistry was not felt as strongly in the new
TMNT and the movie just assumes that you all ready know who and what
each Turtle is all about. But all you really find out is that one is a
jokester, one's a tech geek, one's the leader and one has anger issues.
More down time and better character development would've given the
Turtles the extra boost to make them the incredibly entertaining bunch
they're meant to be.Being such a huge TMNT fan, I wanted to have higher expectations for
this reboot. But with Megan Fox and Michael Bay attached, the poor look
and design of the Turtles, along with the general off-setting feel of
the film, I had to come in with lower expectations. There are some
wonderful action sequences and the Turtles bring enough pop to the
movie to make them likable and fun, but sadly, my low expectations were
met in this failed attempt the reboot a childhood classic.5/10
