5
an impossible love story

The history of England was blessed with several famous queens -
starting with head-losers Anne Boleyn and Mary Stuart, continuing the
two Elisabeth's and of course Queen Victoria, the record holder of
longevity until recently, the queen who gave her name to a whole era of
maximal glory and expansion of the British Empire. The big dames of
English cinema were accordingly blessed with the respective fabulous
roles that they love to bring to the big screens and are regarded as
peaks of their careers. For Dame Judi Dench, Victoria and Abdul
directed by Stephen Frears provides (for the second time actually) the
opportunity to create a memorable portrait of Victoria. Her success in
completing this task is the best part and the best that can be said and
written about this production. Unfortunately, this is not the only
thing that can be said and written about this film.It's very difficult to disconnect the historical episode of the
relationship between the old widow who was also the queen of the
largest empire on earth at her time (and maybe at all times) and the
Muslim servant from India who raised to become her secretary,
counselor, spiritual adviser, friend, surrogate son and maybe more than
all these, and the political situation today, 120 years later, when the
divided Britain faced with the realities of globalization and
immigration tries to put again sea and borders between her and Europe.
The authors of the film invested quite a lot in describing the
atmosphere of the imperial households and its corridors of power and
gossip with the adequate costumes and decoration but they are talking
all the time to the contemporary spectator while telling a story based
on real history or facts as they happened ... or almost, as they
cautionary and wisely warn us in the opening.We are thus left with an impossible friendship and even love story,
impossible because of a mountain of reasons: class differences, race
prejudices, age gap, cultural and historical precipices. The only thing
that can save such a film from falling in complete melodrama or faked
rhetoric is the human dimension. In Victoria and Abdul this dimension
is only partially delivered by the splendid acting performance of Judi
Dench. Unfortunately, the rest of the cast cannot come even close to
her class. Ali Fazal is fit physically but lacks the nuances that can
explain some of the contradictions of his personality. We never know or
really understand what is his real class background, whether the
deepness of his knowledge in the Quran and oriental culture is genuine,
or if he intentionally misled his beloved queen in the details of the
history and realities of the inter-faith conflicts on the Indian
continent. The rest of the cast is condemned to represent a gallery of
half-ridiculous, half-perverse characters representing the British
aristocracy class full of prejudice and bad faith. If only the
caricature would have been pushed a little further we could have had
more comical fun, but Stephen Frears could not really abandon the
ambition of passing some important message about today's politics. In
my opinion he failed, and the principal great merit of this film is
telling a half-baked potential love story while allowing Judi Dench to
add another great role to her illustrious filmography.
