8
Board this train!

This is one fantastic train ride. I love the creative ideas and the
economical character setups. No need for too much heavy top-down
moralization. This is a straight-up disaster flick with zombies coming
in swarms from all directions. So we already know the archetypal
characters - the coward, the brave one, the pregnant one, the youth in
love, the heroic one and so on. The fun is in seeing which one will die
first and who will live. This train is loaded with some colorful
characters. Putting 80% of the action on a bullet train didn't constraint the
wealth of inventive ideas one bit as the commuters escape the crazy
zombies from car to car. The momentum is terrific and I kept marveling
at all creative problem-solving; some I have never seen before. The
character arc of the main actor from narcissistic anti-hero to titular
hero is very potent and what injects the narrative with much forward
power. Love the subtext of class and government hypocrisy, class
division, vileness of human nature and the dreaded herd mentality. Ya
ya ya, I know the movie never delves too deep into them. Because that
would rob the movie of its relentless momentum. I think Paul Greengrass
who made Jason Bourne needs to study the cinematography here. You don't
need to do split-second cuts and shake the camera to make the audience
feel in-the-moment. The action set-pieces are so well choreographed
that I understand and see everything. Straits Times (my local papers) said the last act is disappointing with
the train derailing, crashing into some cliché-obstacles and careening
through melodramatic territory. Hello? This is Korean cinema -
melodrama is expected and in this case welcomed with open arms. IMHO
the first two acts are so explosively fun and rollicking thrilling that
it practically earned its melodramatic ending. Heck! I was nearly
tearing up. This is one of the most entertaining and unpretentious zombie movies I
have seen in a while. This is one train you need to board.
