7
This is a good dish of leftovers

Jason Bourne wants so hard to believe in its own supremacy, forces an
ultimatum of thrills and spills, but ultimately lacks identity. The original trilogy still stands out as one of the most intelligent
post-Cold War spy action thrillers and it mostly succeeded in being the
last word in the genre. Its huge success and relevance also gave the
Bond franchise a big wake-up call. Amnesia-assassin Bourne is the real
thang!So 9 years later, Paul Greengrass and Matt Damon decided it is
opportune time to inject a dose of Bourne-adrenaline and his extreme
ways into us. The only problem is that instead of innovation and
reinvention, it serves up last night's fried rice paradise. One
shouldn't mess with paradise! Greengrass regurgitates out plot points
from the three predecessors. From Operation Threadstone to Operation
Blackbriar, we get yet another black-ops organisation called Ironhand
that wants to stay hidden and will whack anyone to Kingdom Come to
prevent its knowledge from getting out. It once again exploits Bourne's
amnesia as he glimpses yet another piece of his jigsaw mind-puzzle. We
get the same old CIA foggies uttering "Where's Bourne?" and everyone
wearing pained expressions as Bourne evades everyone in Athens, Berlin,
London and Las Vegas. We get yet again a woman who thinks she know best
but Alicia Vikander has none of the gravitas of Joan Allen because she
is too young to be convincing. The screenplay does offer up an promising post-Snowden scenario but it
still feels a little too familiar. These issues aside the movie is
still a pulsating ride. The pace is relentless and Damon's taciturn
Bourne still represents a driving force of reckoning. The spycraft and
action set-pieces ooze uber-coolness and you will want to see it again
just to catch how they did it. However I have one major complaint - I
absolutely abhor the schizophrenic editing and jumpy hand-held shots.
The camera never stays still for more than two seconds for you to
marvel at the fight choreography and the vehicle mayhem-chases. In my
book, hand-held shots coupled with split-second cuts are the cheapest
type of cheat codes in action thrillers. With these type of cinematic
trickery anybody can be a martial arts exponent and a world-class spy.
No class. This is a good dish of leftovers. It may harken you back to the days of
the original trilogy but it never truly pushes the character to a new
frontier re-examining his psychological state. In the end, a dish of
leftovers will still serve its purpose, especially when you are
famished.
