9
Pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed watching this film!

Is it worth the price of a rental? Yes.I absolutely loved this movie! As 3 friends come to the end of their
senior year. Quentin (played by Nat Wolff) sets out on an adventure
likes he's never had before. There is very little that disappointed me
in this film. As a matter of fact, my only real complaint was the
character of Margo (played by Cara Delevingne), I can't quite put my
finger on it but i found her character to be annoying throughout the
first act. She was very monotone although she had this opinionated know
it all attitude. However, since most of the film after that is about finding Margo, her
character is not a problem anymore. I realize that the genre of the
film is "Drama, Mystery, Romance", I think it is safe to add Adventure
, Comedy to the mix. This film made good on the mystery of Margo while
adding the adventure of the night before she goes missing along with
the adventure that Quentin embarks throughout this entire film looking
for Margo. I also found the movie to be very funny with best friends
like Radar (played by Justice Smith) and Ben (played by Ben Abrams).
These two have completely different characters from one another but
together make for a great and funny friendship. Much comedic relief
comes from the interaction of the two best friends alone and the scenes
where it's all three of them.I liked the cinematography in this film very much. There were pretty
lens flares that I thought were suitable for this type of film and in
the scenes that they used them. There was something about the slow
motion car shots that I loved as well. A good use of shallow depth of
field to concentrate on solely one character at times and no shots that
were visually a distraction that I noticed.I loved all the music that they put into the film. This was a definite
plus for me.Lastly, I love the message of this film. A young man graduating from
high school with his whole future planned (college, marriage, kids,
career) only to realize that life is more than just those things. That
you can have an adventure through it all and that friends are so
important and that you need to cherish friendships and enjoy them to
the fullest before everyone goes their separate ways. This is a movie
that I would recommend anyone watch. Live life to the fullest, have an
adventure and don't let life pass you by. I am definitely planning on
watching this film again in the near future. Hopefully I can better
describe the feeling it gives me when I do.
