9
This movie doesn't think you're an idiot.

When I saw that Doug Liman was directing and McQuarrie penning, I was
interested. I liked Liman's first Bourne film over Greengrass-directed
nauseating shaky-cam sequels. McQuarrie is a wonderful screenwriter,
and these two seemed like a perfect pair.I got what I hoped: a movie that doesn't treat me like a 10-year old.
"Edge of tomorrow" is smart, entertaining, exciting and fun. It's an
original movie as well, not a sequel or a remake (although I hear it
might be inspired by a novel or graphic novel).Tom Cruise - who plays a slightly different character than usually - is
good, he always brings his best. He cares about his projects and
demands to do as much stunts as possible. His passion can be seen here
too and he is again a joy to watch, but this isn't a movie for Cruise
to carry. Liman and McQuarrie carry this movie with smart pacing,
transitions and that certain magic good filmmakers seem to be able to
harness at will.Emily Blunt isn't a useless sidekick, but a strong and likable
character. Not annoyingly strong on the surface like some feminist
ball-busting fantasy, but a real character and deserves every minute of
her screen time. Bill Paxton was fun to see as a hard-ass sergeant, and
Brendan Gleeson was good as well - even though his screen time is
limited. All the main actors work well together, if a scene is shared.The movie flows in an interesting way and it likes to surprise you. I'm
not talking about forced twists, I'm talking about that special
situation where you don't know what happens next. I've missed that
feeling. I didn't have to pretend to care about the movie, I was
interested in every minute of it. This happens rarely. And when it
ends, you're satisfied. No setting up sequels, no ambiguous crap, just
a solid, fitting ending.Unlike Cruise's last sci-fi film "Oblivion", this is definitely an
action movie. At first glance it may look like a generic sci-fi action
film - and granted, sometimes (suits, aliens) it does - but there's
enough personality of its own. Action looks good and the camera doesn't
shake around senselessly. Also, the action never goes into that
overblown mode where your senses get tired and you just don't care
anymore. Well done."Edge of tomorrow" is a thoroughly entertaining film. It's "just" a
summer movie, but it's a smart, fun and exciting summer movie. You
don't have to make excuses for its shortcomings to enjoy it. It's
quality filmmaking and certainly a positive surprise.9/10, will buy on blu-ray. I recommend this to everyone. Avoid as much
spoilers as you can.
