5
Could've been a great film. Despite some intriguing story elements and a promising first act, it sadly ends up being OK.

Just to clarify one thing: I don't hate Tim Burton at all. In fact, I
kinda love his work. He has a very unique and imaginative vision, seems
to have a tasteful choice for actors (besides Johnny Depp as the Mad
Hatter), and can really pour his heart and soul in some of his films
like "Edward Scissorhands", "Corpse Bride", and "The Nightmare Before
Christmas". But, just like any director, he has his missteps also. Some
of his recent work is very lackluster and, at times, flat-out bad
(Planet of the... BLAHK!).But I was still excited for this particular project of his. I haven't
read the book, or knew much about it, but when I saw the trailer I got
my hopes up. Maybe this will be his big comeback! Asa Butterfield is an
actor I like, the imagery is appropriately dream- like and the source
material seems to fit his style perfectly. It even has the screenwriter
from X-Men: First Class!So I went to see the film with a few of my friends in a theater of
around 15 people and 25-30 recliner seats. I couldn't wait to see
another great Tim Burton movie!And for the first half of the film... I genuinely enjoyed it! Sure, it
does take some time for Jacob to reach Peregrine's home, but once he
does... I couldn't help but smile like an idiot. The world that Jacob
enters is fascinating, the visuals are exceptional, and every one of
the peculiar kids are very interesting side- characters. I wanted to
learn more about the girl that could lift boulders over her head! There
is also this kid that can project his dreams into film... how cool! The
first act always left me with questions that I was excited to hear
about when the plot kicks in.And then the plot kicks in...That is where the movie starts to run out of steam.I could tell there were a lot of story elements in the book just from
watching the movie, because in the second half a lot of it felt crammed
in. Whenever I try to follow the story as best as I can, there's always
this one subplot that makes precious little sense. It also doesn't help
that the villain is weak and his motivations are somewhat vague.The climax is pretty abrupt and Burton sadly delves into a few clichés
that aggravate me. A lot of it felt by-the-numbers at that time, and I
was sorely disappointed.That's not to say that this was a bad film, because it isn't. The
acting (especially from Eva Green) is competent, the whole film is
imaginative in its story and visuals, and somewhere buried beneath lies
a great film with lots of creative ideas and appealing whimsy. But the
plot is messy, the main character is bland, the pacing is at times
uneven and, in the end, it's just another average YA adaptation that
had loads of potential.VERDICT:+ Visuals + Well-cast, especially for Eva Green + Imaginative + Sense
of wonder in the first act + Solid directing + Interesting side
characters- Villain - The hero is underdeveloped - Plot is messy - Pacing is
uneven - Unconvincing love chemistrySCORE: 5.5/10
