3
"Art" vs. Commercial Success is the one-joke idea this overrated claptrap attempts to mine, ad infinitum

"Birdman" is the latest overpraised and over-hyped "art" film by the
acclaimed director Alejandro González Iñárritu. Michael Keaton, who was
known for playing Batman in the late 80s and early 90s, is cast here as
Riggan Thomson, a washed-up Hollywood actor, once famous for playing a
superhero Birdman character in the movies, now making a comeback on
Broadway, acting in an adaptation of a Raymond Carver short story.The entire film is shot as if it's one long take in a cinema verité
style. Perhaps the best thing about the film is the behind-the-scenes
peek at the technical aspects of a Broadway theater production.
Initially, the narrative takes the form of a black comedy in which
we're asked to laugh at the denizens of the theatrical world, all of
whom are depicted as deeply flawed.Riggan's big fault is that he's deeply ashamed of "selling out" years
earlier when he took on his superhero role. But now, by attempting to
mount a "serious" Broadway play, he has a chance to redeem himself. But
his Birdman persona keeps appearing in the form of a disembodied voice
(and later hallucinations), telling him that he will fail. The idea
that there are those performers who believe that "art" is anathema to
commercial success, is mocked incessantly throughout the film, but we
get the joke early on, and eventually it becomes tiresome.When the lead actor in the play is mysteriously knocked out by a
falling stage light, Riggan is desperate to find a replacement, since
previews are about to begin. At first the well known "method" actor,
Mike Shiner (Edward Norton), appears to be a godsend that will save the
show; but soon it becomes apparent that Mike is exceptionally unstable.
We're supposed to laugh at a character who gets drunk during his first
rehearsal and later attempts to rape one of the female actors while
they're on stage, lying on a bed, under the covers, before an audience
who misinterprets the scene as comic.Later, in a bar, Mike puts Riggan down further by pointing out that the
napkin that was given to Riggan and signed by Raymond Carver, was given
to him in a bar while he, Carver, was drunk. Mike tells Riggan that
he's too untalented for Broadway and introduces him to Tabitha, the
vicious Times critic, who later tells Riggan that she'll never give him
a good review because anyone who sells out to Hollywood can never do
anything good in the "legitimate" theater. The negative Times critic is
just another example of the exaggerated caricatures sprinkled
throughout the film, which simply aren't funny (a more realistic
portrait of theater people should highlight both their positive and
negative attributes!).Also in the mix is Riggan's daughter, Sam (Emma Stone), who has just
been released from rehab for drug abuse. Riggan receives a double dose
of humiliation: first when he is locked out of the theater in his
underwear and is forced to perform before the audience almost au
naturel and later when he discovers the slimy Mike, has had sex with
his daughter.By the time we experience the "twist" of a "happy ending" at the
denouement, there's nothing left for the audience to laugh at, since
Mr. Iñárritu has smugly shot down all of his straw men caricatures.
Riggan "triumphs" first when he blows off his nose with a gun loaded
with live ammunition and Tabitha then gives him a favorable review,
dubbing the performance an exercise in "ultra-realism." His new
prosthetic nose appears to resemble Birdman's, and Iñárritu has Riggan
fly away, now self-actualized, having had a Broadway hit.The whole idea that commercial success and "art" is mutually exclusive
is not borne out by reality. Even Riggan acknowledges that actors like
Robert Downey Jr. can be successful in both worlds. So basically
"Birdman" becomes a silly, "one-joke" idea, not based on reality nor
worth hammering down our throats, ad infinitum.
