9
"Safe House" is a exhilarating action thriller with explosive stunts and sequences.

One of the CIA's most wanted, Tobin Frost (Denzel Washington), is back
on the run after a ten-year disappearance. This alerts the CIA and
sends their team to a gripping chase in Cape Town, South Africa. At a
remote location, the CIA's safe house is guarded by a rookie operative,
Matt Weston (Ryan Reynolds). The house have been empty for years,
involving no guests or action. At the arrival of Frost and the
intelligence, a brutal investigation occurs. Phased by the presence of
a notorious criminal, Weston becomes nervous and confused. In the midst
of questioning, mercenaries invade the house and begins a killing spree
in an effort to kidnap Frost as well. Frost reminds Weston, that as a
house guest, he is to be protected. This sends Weston to a dizzying
panic and eventually escapes along with Frost."Safe House" is a exhilarating action thriller with explosive stunts
and sequences. The team behind the film stages multiple exciting scenes
that involve beat down rooftops in the rural areas as well as
heart-stopping car chases along the streets. Frost is an intelligent
man. Being a former intelligence, who's gone rogue, he knows the rules
and procedures. Most of the time, he's fascinated by watching Weston
carry out his duties. Weston is continuously conflicted, looking for
ways to hide Frost. Yet, Frost never makes it easy for him, as he tries
to escape as well. Weston communicates with one of his supervisors,
David Barlow (Brendan Gleeson), to determine their next move. But, the
gunmen are determined to kill Frost, forcing Weston to take matters
into his own hands.Denzel Washington is an actor full of intensity. He can sit there and
watch Reynolds do his thing and still convey the deepest of his
character's emotions. He gives Frost both a terrifying presence and a
sympathetic feel. Ryan Reynolds, on the other hand, manages to stand
along Washington and give the same intensity. His wits and charisma
works perfectly for his distressed rookie persona. The film succeeds
best because of this tandem, allowing the actors to build a good enough
relationship to carry out the entire film."Safe House" is a great action thriller with non-stop action. This is
the first mainstream feature for Daniel Espinosa and he comes forth as
promising due to his skillful camera work with the action scenes. One
of the most impressive is the rooftop chase at night. The editing is
pitch perfect as it allows the audience to feel the danger of the
situation from each point of view. This film could have been bleak and
predictable if the leads were miscast but Washington and Reynolds'
enigma make the film satisfyingly fun and fresh.deanslisters.tumblr.com
