9
A Beautiful Family Drama

I wanna start by saying this is probably the best movie of 2017 I have
seen so far, but I have also only watched about five movies from this
year, nevertheless it is amazing. Before watching the movie I really
thought it was gonna be pretty bad, but when I finally pulled myself
together to watch it I was very happy I did. It managed both to be very
funny and very hard to watch, it was both heartwarming and
heartbreaking, and it really dealt with it subjects in a very good way.
The story is incredible, even though being a bit unrealistic, it still
manages to be a movie that seem's very real, I don't know the director
all I can say is I think he did a great job. The story is about a single man named Frank Adler living with his dead
sisters child Mary, who happens to be extremely intelligent. Because of
his sisters suicide, and not wanting the child to feel different and
wanting her to have a normal life. He lives with her in a small town,
sends her to a normal school even though she could do much better
educationally. One day his mother comes and hear about what he is doing
and choose to sue over child custody so she can live a more challenging
life and live up to her full potential. That is a pretty bad resume, but I think it gets the point through.
Gifted is about so much more than what I have just written and it asks
so many questions. Mostly I would say this movie is about family, love,
intellect, and questions that are to big for us. The acting is amazing,
starting with Chris Evans who does a quit but nonetheless gives us a
beautiful very emotional performance, showing how good he is when he is
not a superhero. Then there is McKenna Grace without a doubt one of the
best child actors I have seen in a very long time, gives in my view one
of the best performances I have ever seen by a child actor, she is
actually better than most grown up actors. There were also many other
great performances by people like, Jenny Slate, Lindsay Duncan, Octavia
Spencer and many others.I am gonna finish by saying this is an amazing movie about family and
one of the best movies of 2017. I hope you found the review helpful and
I hope you will love the movie as much as I do.
