1
Battlefield Earth 2

A plot that, despite all its science fiction and action/adventure
disguise, is just a bland father/son struggle drama.A screenplay that seems to believe the viewer is an idiot, fully with
nonsense developments and improbable situations.Acting that... well, you can't really call that acting.A generic soundtrack.Uneven special effects: at times beautiful and even breathtaking, at
others too fake looking.No, I'm not talking about 'Battlefield Earth' here (though it could
very well be, except for the first point). I'm talking about 'After
Earth', M. Night Shyamalan's latest film and Will/Jaden Smith vehicle
(aka Will trying to turn his son into a star). A story about a
legendary general and his son, who crash-land on planet Earth long
after humanity has left it. The son must overcame his fear in order to
survive from not only the species that now roam the planet, but also
from a alien predator who smells fear, and save his father; all the
while trying to reconcile with him.Will Smith and his wife produced this, and Will co-wrote the screenplay
with Shyamalan and another guy: that kind of explains the idiocy of the
story (I like Will, but neither him nor Shyamalan are particularly
bright). Human technology evolved so much, being able to travel through
space... but their warriors only carry spears and other short-range
weapons? I get it that they are fearless and this is supposed to be a
test for the trainees, but unless they forgot how to make guns (or
laser-beams like most sci-fi, I think they showed one in the opening
narration) shouldn't it be smart to have long-ranged weaponry too?
Especially on a mission supposed to test recruits (ie.: in case things
get out of hand and they can't get too close soon enough)? Better yet,
why they need to fight close quarters against the aliens?!Also, since when did 'overcome fear' become 'lose all emotion'?Jaden Smith seems to have only one facial expression throughout the
entire move. Sad? Confused? Angry? Who can tell, with his emotionless
stone-face? He looks like he doesn't even want to be there; nothing he
does the whole film is believable, and he totally lacks charisma. He is
a terrible actor, but he may get far if his parents keep holding his
hand. Will Smith, who is usually fun to watch, likewise feels
emotionless, talking and barking orders like a robot.The emotional scenes are totally ineffective, the conflict being too
phony (the father is never there for him! he blames a 9-year old for
being scared when a monster comes in their house! the 9 year old didn't
rush in to fight a killing machine so his sister got killed by it!
(This last when becoming worse because Will actually says he shouldn't
have followed the 'stay hidden' order, ie.: he should have rushed,
because apparently a scared 9 year-old could hold his own against a
soldier- killing alien who preys on fear)) and neither actor managing
to convey an ounce of emotion (seriously, the best acting in all this
came from the 9-year old kid in the flashbacks).The conclusion is terrible. Jaden acts like a scared brat instead of a
trained ranger throughout the film (a baboon appears in front of him,
and his reaction is to throw a rock at his face and yell at it to 'get
away'?! This is supposedly a top of the class recruit?!), and when
faced with the monster and being thrown around like a ragdoll he
suddenly loses his fear?! And he is suddenly fighting and dodging the
monsters attacks like it was nothing?!The only good part in the whole film was the ones involving the giant
bird. And when a giant CGI vulture manages to evoke more emotion than a
father and son acting together in a dramatic father/son story, you know
your film failed miserably.
