1
Terrible Drivel

The Bruckheimer/Verbinski team is at it once again, and once again they
have completely failed. This is so typical of the Disney
Franchise....to take a legendary show, write a mediocre script (that
has nothing to do with the actual Lone Ranger), and get a big name like
Johnny Depp to star in it. Let's face it, with Johnny Depp starring,
people are going to see the movie no matter how terrible it is, simply
because he is in it. This is something that Disney does very well. They
take a show that's more than 30 years old (1957 in this case) and they
remake it into a movie because the majority of their fan base is under
30 years old, so they have no idea how accurate the movie actually is.First of all, the real Lone Ranger was one of the bravest men alive,
not a sniveling little wimp (as depicted in this movie). The characters
(including Tonto) looked nothing like the actual characters in the
original Lone Ranger. What's up with the thick crumbling face paint,
and the dead bird on his head? He looks more like a pygmy that just got
off the first plane from the Congo in Africa. This movie is nothing but
another 2 1/2 hour 'Pirates of the Caribbean' with characters dressed
as cowboys and Indians. This is because Bruckheimer and Verbinski have
one style and one style only. They are not talented enough to expand,
so all of their movies have the exact same recipe (good guys, fighting
the bad guys, for a damsel in distress). Let's face it, we all know
that Disney has completely lowered the criteria for talent in this
country with all of these "so-called" new Disney stars such as: Selena
Gomez, Miley Cyrus, Demi Lovato, Ashley Tisdale, Hillary Duff, Lindsay
Lohan, and Vanessa Hudgens. They can't sing, act, or dance their way
out of a box if they wanted to.This movie is such a flop in the hugest way, it saddens me that they
spent 250 million dollars to make it. I'm guessing most of this money
went to pay the salaries of the actors. This is definitely one of those
movies that you will spend the last hour looking at your watch every
five minutes waiting for it to end. Don't get me wrong, I think Johnny
Depp is a wonderful actor, but the fact that he keeps accepting roles
in these mediocre Disney films simply says that he is a complete sell
out. It's hard for me to discern exactly what stereotype he's tackling
with this oddball incarnation of Tonto, which has all the eccentricity
of Captain Jack Sparrow, but only half of the wit. Depp has become
another sellout who will take any movie role for X amount of money;
there is no artistic integrity involved. Armie Hammer, who I also
enjoy, does not have the acting ability to pull off a lead role such as
this. He is much better used in co-starring roles such as his role in J
Edgar.The most important aspect of the original Lone Ranger was that it
always had a lesson that each episode taught us, something of ethics
and morality. This movie does nothing of the kind, it is simply a
western with people blowing stuff up. If you're a typical Disney sheep,
who will pay good money to see any movie that Disney throws at you, you
will probably love this movie. This is what they count on, and is the
reason they keep making these awful films. If you are a preteen, you
will probably love this movie. If you're one of those people who
worship Johnny Depp and will pay to see anything that he is in, you
will probably love this movie. If you want to see a movie that has any
artistic integrity, or a movie that has a great story and plot, you
will hate this movie. If you grew up watching the original Lone Ranger,
you will be sadly disappointed (once again) at the mockery that Disney
has made of a pure classic. I can understand why Depp is in disguise
and Hammer wears a mask...I would be embarrassed to be in this film as
well. Hi Ho Silver Away!
