1
Bad beyond your wildest imagination

Being a tower junkie for over a decade, I honestly don't have much
expectation on this movie adaption. Much of The Dark Tower series'
charm comes from Stephen King's narration, which doesn't easily convert
into the visual language of movies. Since the bar was set extremely
low, I thought there's no way I could be disappointed in the cinema.But dude, this Nikolaj Arcel guy has one heck of a way to prove me
wrong.Judging by what's revealed in trailers, I thought this one should cover
The Gungslinger and *part of* Drawing of the Three, starting a whole
franchise, with more installments to follow. But no. The director took
pieces from all seven Tower books, glued them onto a self-made
storyline (a lame one), and called it a day. Yes, you're reading it
right. This is the whole thing, the entire package. What kind of
idiotic mind ever thinks of packing SEVEN novels into ONE SINGLE movie?Within 1.5 hours you will see Roland Deschain fighting the army of the
Man in Black (vol IV), having his ass handed to him, embarking on a
chase (vol I), picking up Jake Chambers from New York (vol I & II),
although the Jake in this movie is really Jake Chambers and Patrick
Danville rolled into one (vol VII). They fooled around in Mid-world for
a bit, then discovered Algul Siento (vol VI), where the Man in Black's
force are hording up breakers to destroy the Dark Tower. In order the
thwart the evil operation, they went to this village that looks
suspiciously like Calla Bryan Sturgis (vol V), activated a portal to
Keystone Earth, trying to infiltrate en route the can-toi headquarter,
a restaurant called Dixie Pig (vol VII). Then there comes a ton of pew
pew pew and bang bang bang. All baddies died, including the Man in
Black (vol WTF). They destroyed the tower-breaking machine, and lived
happily ever after (vol WTF). End of story.No Oy. No Eddie Dean. No Susannah Holmes. Even the Crimson King is
axed, while references to him can be seen everywhere in the movie. This
version of Roland didn't even attempt to enter the Tower.I've thought hard, for nice things to say about this movie, and came up
with only the following: 1. All sorts of creative reloading techniques.2. Walter O'Dim is super duper kickass cool in the movie adaption, way
cooler than in the original novels. Matthew McConaughey did portray the
"Walking Dude" true to his name, always on the move, casually passing
through lives and worlds, leaving havoc in his wake.Otherwise... it's a dozen bucks wasted. Should have donated it to the
charity.BTW, IMDb should change its rating mechanism a bit, allowing us to give
a 0 rate.Oh, there's one nice touch at the very beginning of the movie. Among
the names and logos of producers and investors, there's a screen
featuring "Tet Corporation", accompanied by a turtle and a rose,
kindling false hope in me.
