6
Silly and Funny Combination of Comedy and Horror

A reckless janitor accidentally releases a zombie from a laboratory of
research. Meanwhile, the teenagers scouts Ben Goudy (Tye Sheridan) and
Carter Grant (Logan Miller) decide to camp for the last time since they
are too old to be scouts. The problem is that they do not want to harm
the feelings of their friend Augie Foster (Joey Morgan) and the Scout
Leader Rogers (David Koechner). They have a flat tire after hitting a
deer on the road and Carter's sister Kendall Grant (Halston Sage), her
boyfriend and her friend Chloe (Niki Koss) stop their Jeep to see
whether they need a ride. They invite Ben and Carter to go to a party
in the night. The two scouts leave the camping during the night to go
to the party. When they drive through the town, they do not see a
living soul and they decide to visit a night-club since the bouncer is
not at the door. They discover that people have turned into zombies and
they team-up with Ben's recent acquaintance Denise Russo (Sarah
Dumont), who is bartender in the nightclub, and Augie that was left
alone at the camp and came to the town. Soon they discover that the
non-infected inhabitants have been evacuated and the town will be
bombed by the government. They decide to rescue Kendall but they find
that the address her boyfriend gave to them is wrong. What can they do
to save Kendall?"Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse" is a silly and funny
combination of comedy and horror that entertains and make laugh. There
are scenes of the annoying Carter that should have been deleted during
the edition, but the film in general works. The scene with Ben hanging
on the window is hilarious preparing to jump on the trampoline. If the
viewer is not an intellectual, he or she will certainly laugh a lot
with the stupidities and adventures of this scout group. My vote is
six.Title (Brazil): "Como Sobreviver a Um Ataque Zumbi" ("How to Survive to
a Zombie Attack")Note: On 17 March 2017, I saw this film again.
