9
An incredible comeback for the Cars franchise

There will be spoilers...Oh boy, where to begin.I'll start with the elephant in the review section: The accusations of
"sexism" and "political correctness". Yes, it's true, there is a female
car in the film who happens to be a talented race car. The horror!!
Look, I get it. I hate having a blatant agenda shoved down my throat.
Ghostbusters, I'm looking at you. This wasn't that. Not even a little
bit. If you think it was, well, what can I say. Maybe you should just
go home to your bunker and watch Breitbart.The bigger, and I think slightly more understandable, issue is that of
the overall message of the film: our heroes getting older, and the end
of McQueen's career as a race car. Hey folks, time marches on. People
change, even our role models. If your kid can't handle McQueen passing
the torch on to a younger, more adequate player, then maybe you should
plop your brat in front of the TV with Cars 1 on a loop. News Flash:
this is real life! It happens in all sports. Baseball, Football,
Basketball, REAL RACING! Whether we like it or not, our heroes at some
point become too old to do what they do. Progress happens. We improve.
As a baseball fan, I see it every single year. Players we love go away,
and new blood comes in. The message in this movie is exactly that. Kids
need to learn from a young age that you can't have the same guy up
there doing the same thing every day. Heck, if Cars 1 took place in the
1950s and was about the Fabulous Hudson Hornet, people would be
complaining about a new car called Lightning McQueen. What an
incredibly boring world it would be if Lightning McQueen always won
every single race and no other cars came along to improve on the sport.
He isn't becoming less of a hero, he's not being emasculated. His
accomplishments aren't being diminished in any way. He's helping the
next generation to become a hero too! And so what if that new hero is
female? By taking this apparently contentious route, Pixar has opened
up the Cars franchise to years and years of new material. New heroes
will emerge and some will go away. I for one am delighted by this new
direction. I was concerned with the let down that was Cars 2 that the
third installment would be useless. It wasn't, not even remotely. Cars
3 is fantastic, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. My 3 year old son, who is
obsessed with McQueen, loved it too.
