9
Kumail's Culture Clash

Pretty much everyone knows the score with romantic comedies. A guy and
a girl meet, hating each other at first, but through 90 minutes of
"kooky" bonding, the quirky odd couple fall in love, but fall out in
time for the cheesy climax often involving the girl leaving on a plane,
only for the guy to chase it down, get on last minute to confess his
love for her and live happily ever after The genre comes with certain
expectations, for most part, they aren't optimistic. Well take all your
expectations and leave them at the door when you see the romantic
comedy, The Big Sick. This film breathes new life into the rom-com
genre, and is simply a beautiful and genuinely funny movie. The Big
Sick tells the story of Kumail, played by Kumail Nanjiani, an uber
driver from an Islamic Pakistani family who also does comedy on the
side. Despite his parents traditional beliefs, Kumail meets Emily, a
white American girl played by Zoe Kazan, and the two start seeing each
other. What follows is a hilarious, but also heartfelt story about
love, family, the fear of disappointing your family and the clash
between liberal/ more relaxed belief and strict tradition.The Big Sick is fantastically well acted by the films four central
actors. Holly Hunter's presence is felt immediately when we first meet
her character, and she excellently plays the strong but also
compassionate mother of Emily that is Beth. Ray Romano makes a
brilliant comeback as Terry, Emily's father, Romano is obviously no
stranger to playing the father role, being one a father of four
himself. Romano's experience shows in this film, he is funny, timid and
believable in this film and it's great to see him not play a Mammoth in
a movie for once. Zoe Kazan is also great as Emily, playing her with a
great level of emotion and, similar to Holly Hunter, having a real
presence, even if she isn't featured all that much in the actual film.However, the real star of this film is Kumail Nanjiani. This is
Kumail's movie, he absolutely shines in the films lead role and is
simply a revelation. His comedic timing and line delivery is absolutely
on point and his use of sarcasm is exquisite, but not only that, Kumail
nails the more serious and emotional scenes, even shedding a few tears,
which I honestly did not see coming. Kumail Nanjiani doesn't just shine
as a comedic actor, but as a well rounded actor and I really hope this
film does wonders for him.But of course comedy is not just about the delivery, it's also largely
about the material and The Big Sick's material and overall script are
simply marvellous. Not only shining as an actor, Kumail Nanjiani shines
as a writer, co-writing this laugh out loud comedy with his wife Emily
V Gordon. The couple have excellently crafted a subversive romantic
comedy that feels so genuine and so real, that you almost don't want it
to end, I know I didn't. What makes this film truly stand out from
other rom-coms is how just genuine the film feels and how clearly you
can feel the writer's emotions. It's obvious that this is more than
just a film and was written from the heart. Not only that, it's laugh
out loud funny, which to get me to laugh aloud is like getting blood
out of a stone, and deals with its very relevant themes of cultural
tradition and family disappointment daringly yet also respectably.Yes this film is hilarious and emotional, but what really makes the
film stand out is how it handles its sensitive subjects. Kumail comes
from a strict, traditionalist, Pakistani Muslim family living in
America, so he is going to struggle with the type of life he wants to
live and the one his family want him to live, while also experiencing
his fair share of 9/11 and Isis comments and overall bigotry. How The
Big Sick handles these sensitive matters is outstanding, it doesn't
cower from both debating issues and making some very controversial
jokes surrounding them. The film doesn't tiptoe around these things,
but also doesn't make the film all about them either, being loud and
proud without being pretentious. We simply need more films like this.Overall, The Big Sick is a beautifully well written and excellently
acted film, that confidently addresses its sensitive areas without
being cocky and feels extremely genuine on both a comedic and emotional
front. I went in knowing little about the film and that is honestly the
way to go, as the films end/ start of credits added a nice surprise
that just added a whole new layer to the film. I actually laughed aloud
which is extremely rare for me and my smile did not leave my face until
long after the film had finished. I really hope this launches Kumail
Nanjiani and co-writer Emily V Gordon into all new levels of acclaim
and success. Bravo and Brava.
