1
Bad Movie, Not Just a Bad Reacher Movie, Just a Bad Movie

Yes I am a Lee Child/Reacher fan and yes I have read all the books. I
am not a nitpicker though. I understand that for editing and thematic
purposes a book is butchered from time to time for the sake of creating
a script - this movie simply represents a poor job of it.I watched the film last night and woke up with no clear memories about
the film so I watched it again to see if I was missing something.From beginning to end too much of the details of the story are tossed
out. The film opens up with no explanation of why Reacher is in a
diner, where the diner is and how he knows Major Turner. Most of the
information is implied by incoherent flashbacks that also don't add any
details.I would say incoherent is the operative term throughout. Each scene was
like being 35 minutes late t the film and walking in an sitting down
and watching it anyways. The minute you figure out what is going on,
its already a few scenes later.Reacher was charged with two crimes in the book, and assigned two
lawyers. Neither of the crimes was much more than a back story to the
main plot, and certainly not the daughter, but these facts are
important because it explains why he is operating the way he does. The
reason for drafting Reacher back into the Army is not fleshed out and
his time confined to the base are completely glossed over. All the military officers in the movie are far too compliant and give
up classified and/or privileged information without putting up any kind
of fight or demanding a reasonable explanation.Major Turner is scripted as some sort of helpless whiny side kick. There is action, but it doesn't fit in well with the story, it is also
incoherent and not well explained and seemed perfunctory as apposed to
essential. Again, I saw it last night, and I woke up trying to remember
is there was any action, or was it just Reacher on the run with Turner
and a teenager? It was like watching a bad Paul Greengrass film minus the shaky camera
work. Frenetic, and unconnected. Much like the film Alex Cross had
nothing to do with the book I, Alex Cross; Never Go Back has little to
do with the Jack Reacher novels.All this would be somewhat acceptable if it were a decent action film,
but it is not even that.Therefore I feel I have no choice to but say its just a bad film.
Sorry.
