5
Clumsy storytelling that ultimately ruins a potentially good movie

I had no expectations of this movie, as I was dragged along to see it
by a mate with a Jake Gyllenhaal fixation, but was pleasantly surprised
to find it was a bleak-seeming action/drama with Hugh Jackman too,
who's generally excellent in everything he's in. The first 30 minutes
or so of the movie were really promising. I liked the set-up of the 2
cozy families in their suburban idyll sharing a thanksgiving meal and
discovering, to their horror, their kids had somehow gone missing. That
part felt very real, very "based on a true story" and had me on the
edge of my seat. As the film went on though, the clunky writing and
flabby storytelling started to lose my interest.#1. My first big problem came with the utterly implausible discovery of
the body in the pedophile priest's basement. First of all, Gyllenhaal's
decision to move the freezer based on the flex being dangerously
stretched, just seemed...dumb. Why would he care if the guy stretches
his flex? It didn't seem from his reaction ("drunks!") that he thought
the freezer was hiding something, and yet he opts to shove the big
heavy thing closer to the socket because presumably it bothers him.
Then - whoa - there's a door there, and whoa it's a big cellar (which
is not that weird really), and now - whoa - look a body!#2. And next came a great big WHY? He's a pedophile catholic priest so
why was he SO outraged that a man might kill kids. He abuses children
but is still so horrified by a killer that he opts to kill the guy
who's (again...utterly improbably) has come to him for confession, but
not so horrified that he tells ANYONE the guy's story? Or attempts to
find out if it's true before he offs him? Instead he just stuffs the
body in the basement and drinks a lot. Hmm.#3. My next problem was the biggest and clumsiest of the plot points.
Gyllenhaal finds a body and hears a weird-ass tale about child murders
(and presumably there's a not a lot of those locally), but despite his
incredible intellect and ability to make connections, he doesn't spot
the REALLY ODD MAZE NECKLACE on the body until the drawing falls
conveniently from his desk alongside it, and make the connection
between the two. #4. Why is escaped and presumably traumatized kidnap victim Bob
stealing children's clothes, covering them in pig's blood and putting
them in boxes full of snakes? It would make sense if he was somehow
part of the cover-up, or working for Alex's aunt, but he's not. So for
some reason known only to himself he's stealing clothes and making it
seem like Anna and Joy are dead when they're not. Presumably because
he's traumatized. Or just mental. But either way, it's not really
explained, it's just a great big red herring that confuses everything.#5. What is the significance of Keller's dad's suicide? Because if
there is no significance, why show Loki reading about it as if it's
important? Presumably (again) it's so he can find out that the building
that Keller's going to is where his dad died - but so what? Why is it
important, other than to cloud the waters and confuse the audience even
more. Was Keller connected to his father's suicide, why was no note
found...all questions we have no need to ask.#6. WTF is this all maze rubbish? Right from the poster we're led to
expect some kind of maze to appear. The serial killer wears a necklace
with a maze on it, Alex says "they're in the maze", Bob is obsessed
with drawing mazes, so where's the freaking maze man? When Holly gets
Keller to back the car up we think "FINALLY! HERE'S THE MAZE!!! But
there's no maze down there, just a big deep hole full of old sneakers
and dead snakes. No maze, not even a sniff of one. The only
maze-related thing as it turns out, is a puzzle book that Leo forces
the kids to do while they're kidnapped, presumably traumatizing them
with their inability to solve simple puzzles. It might just as well
have been Sudoku really, but that might have looked weird on a
necklace...#7. And finally, the pointless sub-plot. Just WHAT is the purpose and
meaning behind Keller's kidnap and torture of Alex? It has no real
purpose other than to provide a weirdly amoral counterpoint to the
other story (which would have been so much better emphasized if we'd
seen anything of the girls' captivity), and leaves us confused and kind
of weirdly angry with the guy. Alex is an innocent child and Keller has
tortured him almost to death, so what does that make him? A villain? An
anti-hero? A misguided vigilante? No-one seems to care if we know, so
we end up drawing no conclusion at all and Keller ends up as a
shapeless figure that we ultimately care little about.Ultimately my feeling was that this could have been a good film, if
only someone with experience and a keen eye had been brought in to work
on the script and iron out the many flaws. The cinematography and the
score was great, and it's a testament to the director and actors that
the movie was still highly watchable despite the glaring plot holes and
confusing storytelling, but on the whole it was a disappointing and
frustrating experience and not one I'd recommend.
