9
Cult classic

Let me start this out by saying I hate Michael Bay. I hate Michael Bay.
OK, OK, he's not the worst director in Hollywood. He's got his s**t
together, and people are willing to pay him to glue together the worst
movie ideas and turn them into a semi-watchable blockbuster. However,
Pain & Gain isn't one of these movies."Wait, how does that make it good?" You ask? Well, my position is that
Bay actually cared about this movie. He pitched this movie for years,
even when he was a more struggling director, and nobody would buy it.
Eventually, this movie was made on a measly budget of $26 million. Not
exactly peanuts, but nowhere near the budget Bay is used to. I believe
this encouraged him to put some real thought into it.First of all, this is a dark, dark comedy at its core. It's Fargo
ramped up to eleven and edited into the pace of a 2-hour-long
seat-edging action thriller. The movie manages to go from serious, to
gory, to slapstick all in a matter of minutes, and somehow still
manages to work. It'll be impossible to keep yourself from cracking out
in laughter, even though all of the characters are completely unlikable
and self-absorbed. The movie constantly mocks gym jocks, self-help
optimism, and class privilege. The acting is superb. All of the cast
was well chosen, from Dwayne to Shalhoub and especially Wahlberg. And
that shocking fridge horror moment comes with the realization that it
all actually happened. Yes, unlike Fargo, that disclaimer at the
beginning of the movie is an honest one, and the actual events are even
more outrageous than this movie itself.Most of the criticism seems to come from this movie being made as humor
deriving from a true event, but I don't think it could have been done
better any differently. All of the changes made to the events were
understandable in order to make it watchable as a movie; Adding extra
humor in order to balance the absurdity, merging a few characters into
one much larger one, or even actually *toning down* a few parts to make
them more believable. There are so many memorable moments that are
permanently affixed to my brain, unlike other Bay films which are
utterly forgettable. That makes this a cult classic, and easily one of
my favorite movies.
