8
Good movie but, sadly, Hollywood must tinker with facts

I really enjoyed watching Hidden Figures. The story was compelling and
laid out neatly for our viewing pleasure. It shone a spotlight on a
part of history with which I wasn't familiar. And, most importantly, it
made me want to learn more about Katherine Goble Johnson, Mary Jackson,
and Dorothy Vaughan. What a shame the screenwriters felt they had to
preach at me about racism rather than just tell the true story of these
amazing and talented women. They weren't amazing and talented "in
spite" of being black or "in spite" of being women, they were just
amazing and talented in their own right. One day, perhaps, Hollywood
will get a clue and give audiences credit for having a brain.Much of the atmosphere of racism in the movie did not ring true for me.
In many cases it didn't even make sense, so I looked into it. The first
question I had for the internet was "Did Katherine Goble have to run
half a mile to use a bathroom on the NASA complex?" The answer is no.
For more info on the conditions and life of Katherine Johnson check out
the interview with her here: https://youtu.be/r8gJqKyIGhE. In
particular check out 11:49 where she says she "didn't feel
segregation". Everyone was working. The job was important and they
weren't going to jeopardize the mission with foolish racist antics. She
was part of a team. I would've liked to have heard so much more about
Katherine and her mind and work, less about the social issues of the
1960s! I understand screenwriters have to condense a large amount of
information into a couple of hours but the ham-handed and, let's be
honest, false representation of racism at NASA and the treatment of
these women was a repeated and unwelcome intrusion into what should
have been a very interesting and educational movie about such
remarkable women. For example: I strongly suspect Katherine Goble
never, ever would have been so unprofessional as to scream at her boss
and co-workers like she does in what Hollywood probably sees as a
"cathartic" scene. It was completely out of character and a distraction
from what should have been the real story, that of Katherine's
accomplishments. Goble was a conscientious and intelligent woman who
would've never done such a thing which, to my way of thinking, says a
lot more about her than this silly, manufactured scene. But I don't want to run the risk of being just as ham-handed in my
review and I'll leave my criticism at that. I'll only add, don't let
the prospect of being bludgeoned by an anti-racism message keep you
from going to see Hidden Figures.
