1
Fifty Shades of No.

As an active member of BDSM community, and having been a part of it for
six years, I am appalled by the 'blockbluster romantic movie' that
everyone deems to be 'romantic'. You take a Mary Sue - also known as
Dakota Johnson to whom lacks the ability to a) bite her lower lip in a
'sexual' manner', let alone say her lines as if she's been acting for
several years ( lets be honest here, she cannot act ) / Gary Sue - seen
as the bearded wonder that was Jamie Dornan, a married man outside of
his acting career with a child - situation that holds no evidence of
sexual tension. The inability to further deepen the bond between Dominate and
submissive was, how does one say it, horrible in effort. What appeared
to be every 'womans' dream man became a man known for raping a woman
purely because of his night terrors, a man to whom devoted taking the
idea of BDSM and creating abuse rather than listening and allowing for
someone - mind you, who had no sexual ID or preference until meeting
him - who was about as 'vanilla' as the ice cream itself, to study and
look at the idea of BDSM. To those whom have taken the books route and
ventured into the dark abyss that is Wikipedia to figure out what BDSM
is, needs to be caned. The author, herself, takes an already published series turned movie,
and makes it into her own idea. A 26 year old billionaire? Unlikely in
this day and age with the way the economy is. A college student with a
rather unnerving need to say 'oh my' every other second? Really? Is
THIS what writing as the point of view of a woman has come down to? It
seems like, although we argue against it, and we say that we don't
condone it, that the women whom have read this book, have seen this
movie, will and have ignored that there is rape, non consensual sex,
and heavy amounts of verbal and emotional abuse. Who really wants a man
who is going to control their eating habits, sleep schedule and more?
Certainly not I. To be frank, everyone knows this movie is going to gross millions upon
its release; why? Because everyone is all hyped up to see a movie with
little to no chemistry, to find that the 'unusual behavior' is just
another way of life. We magnify all the little things in the world that
we've yet to uncover, but BDSM should never be something in the movies,
should never be written; especially by women in their 'mid life crisis'
age with no idea what the sensation of a crop lashing at skin feels
like.If you want good BDSM, or to understand it, there are people willing to
discuss it, websites you can go on - although extremely sexual in
nature - to figure out what true BDSM looks like, what it sounds like.
When this book was written, it was evident that EL James did not do her
own 'research'.All in all, it's a movie with no plot, with no true build to it with
horribly written characters and nothing more. So why spend nearly good
money seeing this sad mistake when you can spend that money on getting
something to eat and staying inside? Complete and total thumbs down to
the movie, the book, the series, and to the author.
