2
Go home movie, you're drunk

This film resembles the type of nightmare that Quentin Tarantino might
have if he'd been eating cheese late one night as a script deadline
approached, and had he been smoking illicit substances during the day
before. You could see what writer/director Martin McDonagh was trying
to do: he's clearly a big fan of the sort of excessively-violent,
dialogue-driven, actors-playing-exaggerated-versions-of-themselves
movies that Tarantino is most famous for. But the problem is he doesn't
have quite enough talent to pull off that type of movie, even as a
pastiche.There are some funny moments in the early part of the film. And parts
of the dialogue are clever in that first half, as we get to enjoy some
genuinely-talented actors like Woody Harrelson, Sam Rockwell and Colin
Farrell portraying over-the-top mad, bad, drunk and dangerous-to-know
uber-versions of the type of characters they've played in so many other
movies. But, sadly, that first half is where any potential ends.The second half of the movie consists of a much stranger and altogether
less engaging plot. I can only imagine it was written under the
influence of hallucinogens, as it very much had a look and feel that I
imagine was meant to be poignant and dreamlike, but in actuality
resembled the type of drunk, rambling conversations you have with
people at a party at 2am when they've imbibed too much and you are
stone cold sober. Which is to say that second half was long-winded,
repetitive, embarrassingly incoherent whilst trying to be profound, and
ultimately pointless.It's a real shame to see talent wasted like this. I like and respect
all of the main actors a lot, and have enjoyed much of their other
work. But even Christopher Walken, whose performances in so many other
movies was encapsulating, is here handicapped by a script that no actor
could make engaging. Some of the other leads mentioned above at least
get one or two funny scenes in that first half, but Walken's part
doesn't even get that much.All-in-all, I don't recommend this. Like most movies about writing
movies, it's not as engaging as writers seem to think.
