4
Repetitive and Thoroughly Unpleasant

The Belko Experiment is a nasty, gory, chaotic little horror film that
pits an office building full of co-workers against each other in a
bloody battle of last man/woman standing. This much you probably
already know from the trailer. It's a plot that can be succinctly
surmised on a cocktail napkin so it's not like you need much to prime
you for what's to occur. What they don't tell you however is The Belko
Experiment is a nasty, gory and chaotic little horror film without a
center. Hunger Games (2012) meets Office Space (1999)? More like
Severance (2006) meets a sad, angry teenager's school shooting fantasy.We catch our first glimpse of our inevitable victims within hours of
the titular experiment. There's the office Jim and Pam (Arjona), a
couple of one-trick pony side characters that might just make it to the
second act (Gunn, Brener, Del Rio), the obvious District 2 sociopaths
(Goldwyn, McGinley, Yeoman) and, of course, the mousy office Milton
(Diaz) who's just so excited to be starting her first day at the
office. It's obvious within the first five minutes which archetypes are
going to make it to the top ten, the question becomes, will the other
seventy or so office drones be in on the fun or not.Without spoiling too much for the misguided Purge (2013)-o-philes who
still want to watch this trash, I'm sorry to say that The Belko
Experiment errs on the side of seriousness and pessimism instead of
black comedy or pressure-cooker sensationalism. Any lurid fun that can
be had at the expense of cubicle flunkies taking out long-seeded
frustrations on their managers or visa versa takes a back seat to the
actions and motivations of a selective few who camp out on their
respective floors hatching their schemes. The films creativity (or lack
thereof) is so markedly uninspired that it might as well write "You'll
Get the Point and Little Else Within the Hour" in big banner lettering.As chaos looms, factions quickly form. Not so much organically, but
more as a way of sussing out the good guys from the bad for the sake of
the story. Representing team "give a s**t" is the amiable Mike
(Gallagher) who walks through the blood splattered cork-board of Belko
Industries with a halo around his head despite being a bit of an
airhead. He's the kind of guy who'd tell everyone to take the stairs
instead of the elevator because it's safer. He's the kind of guy who is
a salt and pepper mustache away from being Sully Sullenberger; a
goody-two-shoes whose persona is so mundane and diametrically opposed
to any of the larger-than-life villains that it just reeks of lazy
characterization.On the other side of the divide is Barry (Goldwyn) who is "open to all
options," so long as those options leave him in control. His arc is a
little more nuanced than Mike's but given his title and the company
that he keeps, I'm amazed the audience's goodwill got as far as the
building's dirt parking lot. We all know he's bad and every discussion
had in the building cafeteria mulling over what do to is shaded by his
badness - life and family be damned.They're all damned really, though because the lions share of the office
has little to no say on how they meet their demise it never seems to
matter all that much. The fact that the movie literally lines people up
for the slaughter should tell you all you need to know about how
repetitive this movie is. For real: Battle Royale (2000), a film with
five times more protagonists, still managed to stuff in more plot,
meaning and dignity into its story than this film managed to imbue in
twelve floors and a murder of recognizable character actors.The Belko Experiment is a grim, mean, repetitive, slog of a movie that
takes all the moral, psychological and political subtext of James
Gunn's high-concept and smashes them like watermelons bracing against
Gallagher's sledge-o-matic. The ends of this cruel little experiment
hints at a sequel, the results of which may give this movie some
closure. As of now however, the message I heard loud and clear by the
end of this mess was, "watch this movie, and we'll make three more just
like it." Rise above people, rise above.
