2
Overtly propagandistic, but at least they got the name right.

Zootopia is another attempt to propagandize for multiculturalism,
coming from the same studio which once produced an uplifting allegory
for traditional white identity and aristocracy. In line with the
dominant elite view on race, it manages to simultaneously push
wild-eyed optimism and a paranoid victim attitude. Considering that it
met with very positive critical response, including praise for its
political message, the subtitle might as well be This is What Our
Elites Actually Believe.As the title implies, the film depicts an unrealistic society inhabited
by various animals. The heroine, Judy Hopps, is an effervescent rabbit
from a rural area whose parents hope that she will become a carrot
farmer like themselves. Their bluntly stated and cartoonish view is
that you should not try new things because you might fail. Rejecting
this view, Judy aspires to be a police officer, unmoved by their
insistence that no bunny has ever held that title. A fox bully assaults
her and tells her again of the mismatch between her species and her
career aspirations, but she ignores this as well.The multicult message continues when Judy gets ready to leave for
Zootopia to begin her law enforcement career. Her parents display
excessive concern over her possible future encounters with foxes,
offering her fox repellent and even a taser to defend herself with.
They remind her of her experience with the fox Gideon Grey who
assaulted her years ago, but our heroine recites lines to the effect of
"NAXALT" and "some of us are jerks too."Nick then recounts how he consciously decided that if others saw him as
untrustworthy, he might as well act that way. Now an adult, he had
bragged earlier in the film that he had been running scams every day
since the age of 12. There was no mention of previous antisocial
tendencies. The accusation that others' rejection can turn an otherwise
respectable person into a professional lowlife is of course paranoid,
but familiar to anyone who has heard the terms "marginalized" or
"stereotype threat." The fox serves as an expression of the external
locus of control so common among dysfunctional people.Blaming external racist forces for degeneracy in one's own group should
be a familiar concept to American viewers. This plot point is
reminiscent of conspiracy theories about the CIA inventing and/or
distributing crack cocaine to keep the Black man down, or similar
popular theories concerning HIV. The seminal 1944 title An American
Dilemma by the Swedish sociologist Gunnar Myrdal accused White
prejudices of encouraging low standards of morality among Blacks, which
in turn reinforced White prejudices, and so on in a vicious cycle.Of course, today even the implication that there are different
standards of morality between races or nationalities would be dismissed
as racist. Other than of the victims of the conspiracy, there is no
mention in the film of any actual difference in values or behavior
between contemporary predators and prey animals.However, the differences between species in Zootopia are dramatic, not
only in size and shape but in some aspects of behavior. The sloths who
form the staff of the DMV are as slow as actual sloths, even in their
speech. There is no pretense of equality in this context; Nick even
sarcastically asks Judy if she thinks that someone must be slow just
because he is a sloth. Integration of sloths into rabbit or sheep
classrooms would obviously be absurd.The film's denunciation of racism is partly based on attempts at humor,
which is an appropriate choice for propaganda. Judy praises Nick as
"articulate" and he responds by complimenting her on how
"non-patronizing" she is, highlighting her "racism." Nick touches the
sheep assistant mayor's wool without her knowledge, comically amused by
how fluffy it is. Judy reprimands him to the effect that "you can't
just touch a sheep's wool." She makes another reference to the racial
sensitivities of American Blacks when she explains that a bunny can
call another bunny cute, but when another animal does it, it is
offensive.The portrayal of "racist" characters is not as vitriolic as social
justice warriors might like, but of course still fits with the overall
agenda. While some "prejudiced" characters such as the elephant
storekeeper and the young Gideon Gray are portrayed as hostile, the
racist parents are portrayed as earnest and good-natured yet ignorant.
Judy is to some degree portrayed the same way, when she innocently
suggests that the basis of the predators going savage might be
something in their biology. The results are not harmless though, as she
triggers a wave of "xenophobia" against predators. Nick makes a great
show of being offended by her racist thoughts, even testing her to
confirm that she is in fact afraid of him, and she resigns in shame.Zootopia makes a weak attempt at being less than utopian; Judy's
original expectations of a city where everyone gets along are shown to
be overly optimistic, which she ultimately admits in a voice-over at
the end of the film. The attempts at justifying continued faith in
multiculturalism come off as desperate, though. Judy recites slogans
such as "real life's a bit more complicated than a slogan," adding that
the "glass is half full" and "we all have a lot in common," but she
does not sound as though she actually believes it. Of course, no one
ever presents any particular reason to believe it; those who do not are
simply not presented as reliable sources.The film ends with a scantily clad gazelle performing a degenerate pop
song by the Colombian singer Shakira which further highlights the
underlying mindset. The lyrics of "Try Everything" celebrate mindless
optimism and seem to be intended as a cheap form of therapy for someone
who has a crippling fear of failure, reassuring them that "nobody
learns without getting it wrong" and "sometimes we come last but we did
our best."
