10
"I miss you... I miss you..."

Finally. FINALLY. This is the movie which completely overwhelmed my
expectations and blew me away.Romance is actually one of my favorite genres, but unfortunately it has
let me down a lot more than once. Not the case with Carol. This has a
strong possibility of being the best movie of 2015.Therese is a woman working in a store who has an interest in trains and
photography. But her hobbies is not enough to escape her boring and
quite uneventful life. Carol has a wonderful daughter and is doing fine
financially... but has an husband (whom she is trying to divorce) who
won't leave her alone and makes her feel miserable.These two people meet, and... they connect.First off, the story itself is already incredibly captivating. It takes
place during a time period where homosexuality was not only frowned
upon, but there were even laws against it. So seeing the two of them
facing struggles in order to keep in contact with each other is
fascinating to behold. And it is because the love story is so damn
beautiful. There is a lot of visual language. Eye contact and body
language often speaks for itself. And it's excellently executed, as you
sometimes know exactly how these two character are feeling without a
single word spoken. And even the dialogue itself has subtlety to it.
There are plenty of times where either Carol or Therese insinuate
feelings by using seemingly casual sentences. "Your perfume... it
smells good." is really just a synonym for "I want to kiss you". "Oh
stop it, you look perfect!" can very well mean "I want to spend the
rest of my life with you." The lines are not obvious giveaways and I
love it. The audience gets to think for themselves.But what really makes this movie work is the acting. It's absolutely amazing. Cate Blanchett and Rooney Mara are at their best ever. They
make the characters so real, so human, that you wish they actually
existed. Kyle Chandler also throws in a remarkable performance as the
husband. You root for the two girls... but you don't hate Harge either.
There is one scene where he has gone so far as to get himself to the
house Carol and Therese is staying at for the weekend. And when he's
told he can't have her, I was really feeling bad for the guy!I can't remember the last time I have been as touched by a movie. It
hit my heart just in the right places, and when I walked out of the
theater I felt like I had just experienced someone else's life.Okay, the trailer revealed too goddamn much from the movie, so several
important plot details I already knew beforehand. But even that
couldn't stop the perfectly orchestrated ocean of emotions it bathed me
in. Carol will stick to your brain like glue after you've watched it.
Oh and the movie too ;)
