1
A pointless reboot which fails to improve on the original film in almost every manner possible

Based on a scientific project that Reed Richards (Miles Teller) has
been developing (which can transfer matter from one dimension to
another) the Fantastic Four use themselves as Guinea Pigs in order to
transfer themselves to another dimension (in the belief that there is
something in this other worldly dimension that will benefit their own
planet). However, something goes wrong for our foursome during the
transportation process and they end up with drastic physical
transformations (some which are much more noticeable than others).
Worse still, they tried and failed to save Victor Von Doom (Toby
Kebbell) and leave him behind believing him to be dead. Later on, a
team go back to the other dimension and discover that Victor is still
alive and bring him back to Earth in order to assess his condition. But
Victor has no intention of staying on Earth and is determined to create
a new world in this other dimension and will stop at nothing to achieve
his objective. Victor has also suffered a physical transformation, but
he has become much stronger and more powerful than his former friends
and the Fantastic Four find that they must work together to try to stop
him from carrying out his evil plans.The film opens up with some promise whereby we're given an insight into
how our illustrious foursome ended up becoming the formidable team that
we saw in the earlier films. Despite a fairly promising beginning
though this reboot completely fails to bring about a lot of the magic
that we witnessed in the 2005 version of this film.A big problem for me lay with the tone of the film; firstly it takes
itself WAY too seriously and as a result it made the film quite boring
to watch. When watching this it felt like I was watching a science
documentary (with all its wordy geeky exposition) rather than what
should be a fun comic book type movie. This brings me on to my next
point 'What fun'? In the 2005 film (and the 2007 film as well) there
was much more in the way of camaraderie between the cast making the
film much more fun to watch. As a villain Von Doom isn't particularly
well-developed here and I felt his motivations for world-domination
were a little sketchy here - I criticised Von Doom's motivations in the
original film, but compared to his motivations here they now seem more
plausible in retrospect.I appreciate that this is a reboot and therefore the filmmaker's are
trying to put their own stamp on things (presumably that explains why
Johnny Storm is black in this film and also explains why their powers
have been attained in a different manner to the original film). The
problem with this reboot is that they've failed to do anything to
improve on the original film; the story isn't as interesting, the
characters are much weaker and are poorly developed, there is no real
exploration of their super powers (this was a big thing in the previous
films and made sense as they were a big life-changing aspect for the
foursome), but here they just kind of have the super powers and then
that's it - off to destroy Victor Von Doom. The only real super power
that is explored is that of The Thing and even that super power is
exploited in a rather lame way.The cast are another big problem with this film as they totally failed
to engage with me (as well as each other); Miles Teller is really bland
as Reed Richards (even more bland than Ioan Gruffudd was in the
original films) which is surprising as he put in a very good
performance in Whiplash 2 years ago. Kate Mara is very pretty, but
she's terrible in this film (again probably worse than Alba was in the
original films). Michael B Jordan tries his best as Johnny Storm, but
he lacks the charisma that Evans brought to the role in the original
films and as a result suffers badly in comparison. The Thing for me is
probably the best character in the film, but he lacks the touching back
story that we lay witness to in the original film and again suffers
from not being developed sufficiently enough to make me really care
about him here.The ending is also poor and lacks any kind of intensity and tension and
has the Fantastic Four doing 'the obvious' to wrap the film up.All in all it's a very disappointing film where the serious tone is
perhaps a bigger enemy to the film than Doctor Doom. It's big and
bloated, but it's also boring, and lacking in both fun and imagination.
I'd recommend giving it a wide berth.
