5
Choose Argentina

Greetings again from the darkness. Why, Billy Ray, why? It's not
surprising that Hollywood green-lighted the Americanization of the 2010
Oscar winner for Best Foreign Language film, El secreto de sus ojos.
That original from Argentina is exemplary filmmaking and a thoroughly
entertaining and compelling mystery-thriller; a must-see for any true
film lover. Even if an Oscar-studded cast is hired (2 Oscar winners, 8
nominations), the guiding inspiration for a remake should be more than
losing the subtitles and filming Julia Roberts without make-up.The story balances two timelines spanning 13 years. Jess (Ms. Roberts)
is an investigator who works with FBI Agent Ray (Chiwetel Ejiofor),
Assistant District Attorney Claire (Nicole Kidman), and a blustering
District Attorney played by Alfred Molina. When Jess' daughter is
brutally murdered, the investigation is impacted by the suspect's role
as a department snitch. When we catch up all those years later, the
unrequited attraction between now former FBI Agent Ray and now DA
Claire is as strong as ever; Jess' appearance is on par with someone
suffering from a terminal illness, and the murder still hovers over
these characters as if it had occurred last week.It's a fascinating story that was handled superbly in the original, yet
mostly comes across as uninspired in this latest project. At times,
it's even a bit confusing in how the two eras are handled. The score
from Emilio Kauderer and a couple of fine scenes from Ms. Roberts
(although she gets no credit here for appearing sans-makeup) are the
best parts of this one. Otherwise, Mr. Ejiofor (usually a fine actor)
goes over-the-top, while Ms. Kidman is simply miscast and unable to
generate the proficiency required for her position. Other support work
comes courtesy of Dean Norris ("Breaking Bad"), Michael Kelly ("House
of Cards") and Zoe Graham.Other than lacking the grit and realism of the original, the editing
and camera work (so exceptional in the first version) at times come off
as amateurish this time around. The soccer/futbol sequence from the
original is replaced with Dodgers baseball (Chavez Ravine and Vin
Scully) and a link to former Manager Walt Alston. Normally that would
be considered an improvement, but again, these fall short and fail to
generate the necessary suspense. A weak impersonation of the famous
long-tracking shot certainly doesn't help.For anyone who hasn't seen writer/director Juan Jose Campanella's (an
Executive Producer here) excellent original, this version from Billy
Ray (Shattered Glass) might prove interesting enough; however, those
same folks are strongly encouraged to instead track down the original,
and experience the emotional depth and filmmaking expertise that made
it such a worthy Oscar winner.
