1
Gravity hurts the genre.

This is yet another movie demonstrating space for many new viewers, IN
THE WRONG WAY. If you set aside the horrible acting and the obviously
written-in-a-day plot, all you have left is a steaming heap of special
effects and sound editing that is designed to rope in young or stupid
movie viewers, these days they are synonymous. This is essentially
Sanctum(2011) cloned, set in space, with worse acting, and less
intelligence. This movie had it's accurate moments, a rarity among
cinema, but the creators also dropped the ball hard on many of the
physics in the movie. Any of you that have studied physics and
understand the concept of a vacuum, please stand up.Spoilers ahead!~~This genre is very hard to get followers as it is, but why oh why would
you cast two of the worst possible people that could portray astronauts
and then proceed to have them read lines that are most likely written
by some guy that has absolutely no knowledge of internal conflict. Okay
so here we go. -Does anyone truly believe that, during a SCHEDULED
maintenance mission to a prestigious satellite like the Hubble, Russia
would have been operating in the same level of orbit? OR if that
doesn't hit it home, detonations are not executed in geosynchronous
orbit EVER for fear of permanent debris OR how about did the engineers
of either Russia or America randomly think that," hmm so we are going
to blow up something in orbit(to reiterate this does not happen) and
there absolutely won't be a chain reaction that causes the I.S.S. or
the future C.S.S. to receive damage" NO because this just won't happen
ever. -Why would NASA, assuming this is our time line (she mentions
Huston, which is mission control) have authorized this woman(Bullock)
for space operations if she is so prone to be mentally disabled in a
crisis?(loss of child, apparently no significant other or family, seems
depressed so the psych. eval. would have failed) -Why if after being
approved for a mission to orbit(which requires ridiculous amounts of
training), would this certified astronaut and specialist(most likely an
electrical engineer, which happens to be my profession), be so idiotic
in a situation as grievous as this. I mean there are well over a dozen
times that she seems to have the capabilities of a high school dropout.
-I know this is a movie but damn, the cliché's are killing me softly.
Ripley is the only solo-heroine of the space genre, sorry Sandra. Also
the hallucination cliché ,cough, movie isn't over, cough, she gets away
unscathed,cough.In conclusion, yes the special effects depict earth well and the
debris/fire-in-zero-g was pretty good, it is clear that the budget went
to the cg. The downfall is that space is big, this genre NEEDS
exploration, not just our atmosphere! There is a big reason why media
like Star Trek has staying power, and why many of the viewers and
readers can obtain a lasting memory by stopping by NASA's website and
read testimonials of astronauts and see pictures from satellites etc.
This movie is just a hyped up 1.5 hours of cg with a terrible script
and bad acting, that has nothing to give to the space genre. Sorry
Hollywood, but until you give us the desire, you won't get viewers
hooked on bad space movies. Sincerely yours, concerned techie.
