3
Awful... for kids, but awful

I cannot begin to describe the levels of wrong and awfulness for this
movie. I'll just bring it down to this:I don't know what was worse. The story, the acting, or The Rock playing
the ukulele. The lines, the mimics, the situations, even the humor (which was
supposed to be funny... don't know how yet.. ) looked, sounded and felt
like plastic bags. They all felt so unnatural, and out of character. I
can't yell at mister Wrestler.. he did his best for what he can do. But
Vanessa, honey, you have a Disney background, you should be good at
this stuff... it's a kids movie.. good acting = good movie. Having a
red wet shirt on you throughout the scenes, that's not really
appropriate. The story is... well there isn't much of a story... only that 3
different people, wrote about the same island, and encrypted its map
and location in their books. The island (Atlantis) runs by a 'tectonic
plate clock cycle', diving in the ocean and resurfacing every X amount
of years. However, if the island was destroyed each time it went under
the ocean, how did it rebuild itself? Answer : A wizard did it... I wonder how they didn't get sued for using 'Yoda' which is a LucasArts
trademark. I also wonder why did they try to build The Rock's character
into a muscled 'MacGuyver' and a Wizard, and a Scientist, and an ex
Navy Seal, and a Wise Man ... and .. must I go on? Also, the kid, is so dumb... that a chick has to drop the curtain and
tell him : "Oh gee.. stop whining like an 8 year old.. for having a
step dad who cares about you.. wouldn't it be worse if you didn't had
him at all???". For being that stupid, you deserve to sink and die with
the damn island, and maybe you'd get reconstructed each 140 years like
the island does.. Yes sir..The only good thing about this movie, is the CGI, which was well done,
no argument there. And one more thing. I laughed so hard at this. I imagined there would
be something like this in the movie (adding up to Vanessa's red wet
shirt). A kids movie = parents are there too. So how to keep them awake
or not drunk in the theater (also entertained would be a much suitable
word)? Yes, you got that right.. Vanessa's buttocks: Central Framed,
HD, 3D go watch it now (during the escape from Nemo's burial room).Overall: probably good for kids, probably good for drunk adults, most
likely awful to everyone that noticed how the movie industry is on a
downfall, and how each year it gets worse.
