9
The Arrival of a mind-blowing sci-fi masterpiece

Last night I saw Arrival at TIFF and my mind was blown. This is by far
Villeneuve's biggest film he has tackled yet with so many strong
universal themes but yet also feels very emotional and intimate from
the perspective of Amy Adams's character.Unlike Villeneuve's previous works like Prisoners and Sicario, Arrival
isn't a dark or twisted look at humanity. Instead, Villeneuve chooses
to go for a lighter yet still serious tone with the mystery surrounding
the arrival of the aliens. That is what makes Arrival so incredible.
Villeneuve injects elements from Stanley Kubrick's 2001 to make the
story not only visual stunning but also makes it very captivating.
Arrival does not rely on conflict between the humans and aliens to keep
you invested and entertained because Arrival is against that trope.
Each time our characters interact with the aliens, who remain covered
in mist for most of the screen time, we as the audience gain something
new in the form of knowledge and discovery rather then an action set
piece. And when we return back to the outside world, we see through the
media how each discovery affects it in different ways. The characters are one of the reasons why this film works. They are not
treated as cliché plot devices but are just real people who just want
answers to this situation. Amy Adams truly is the star of this film as
she carries this film with a sense of gravitas but also vulnerability.
She shows a woman who is at first terrified from meeting the newly
arrived aliens but gains strength when she learns more. Flashbacks to a
tragic event also reveal the struggle she goes through especially as
the fate of the world is on her shoulders. Jeremy Renner does a good
job as a physicist with a dry sense of humor. Forest Whittaker is also
great a the general who isn't a trigger-happy idiot but someone whose
job is just to get answers in order to find the safest and most humane
solution possible.Arrival is a film that is more then just about language. It shows how
divided we are as a species as each nation and culture interprets the
alien's language in different meanings. And from this lack of clear
understanding it creates fear and paranoia that could lead to global
war. But Arrival shows that despite the mystery that surrounds the
unknown, the future can be just as hopeful and bright as it might be
scary and we should approach it with confidence.This has proved Denise Villeneuve has range in genre as a director. I
look forward to seeing him continue his work in the sci fi genre with
Blade Runner 2.
