1
Don't waste your time

I've always thought that there must be a very good reason for a movie
to last 3 hours. Wolf of wall street does last 3 hours but there no
shadow of a good reason for it. It could have lasted 1 hour and it
would have been already too long.It is difficult to summarize all the things I didn't like but let's
try:1- Characters development is simply not existent. There is no depth,
just one-dimension flat characters that only do drugs, sex, and money.
I am not against showing drugs or sex or money in a movie, if it helps
the plot. But in this case, it didn't. It was 2 hours of absolute
useless display of all the possible debaucheries on earth, without them
helping in building up the characters. 2- If a guy manages to build up
an empire based on a fraud, I'd like to see what happens to his victims
too, and, sorry if I am not a master of Wall street, but I'd like to
have 5 minutes of the movie spent in explaining what was this fraud
about. 3- If the guy, once again, not only builds his own empire, but
also drags other people in that, I suppose he must have some smartness,
or intelligence, or be a master manipulator.. whatever it is, it cannot
be just (once again) cocaine and prostitute. If they wanted to depict
the guys as villains, they failed miserably. 4- the only relatively
interesting part (the trial etc) is cut to 30-45 minutes max. Once
again, I supposed it could have been a good chance to show some
introspection of the characters, some development..something! But no,
once again, nothing. We only notice that now the beer is not alcoholic.
So sad. 5-Finally, DiCaprio performance: he did his job, probably, but
he was alway over the top (and not in a good sense). Too much of
everything, to the point that he fell into being ridiculous more than
believable.Ah, one last note. Wall Street? Where is it in all the story? I
expected to see some connections to WS in fact, like what was going on
in the meantime but there is - sorry to repeat myself- basically
nothing about it.
