1
How about we all get honest?

Quentin Tarantino's Django Unchained is, among much else during its
leisurely 165-minute running time, an adolescent male revenge fantasy
about an omnipotent mass shooter wreaking carnage upon dozens of
victims. I suspect the film would have appealed profoundly to the late
Adam Lanza.You might think that this wouldn't be the best time for a quasi-comic
daydream/bloodbath about a deadeye gunman who always fires first and is
immune to the thousands of bullets shot at him. But the recent
unpleasantness in Sandy Hook has gone almost unmentioned in the
critical hosannas greeting Django…because, you see, the invulnerable
hero is a black gunman shooting bad (i.e., Southern white) people.It's not much more complicated than that.For example, in the The New York Times, the scholarly and mild-mannered
A. O. Scott declares Django:"a troubling and important movie about slavery and racism."According to Tarantino lore, the former video-store clerk is a dyslexic
with a 160 IQ. It's hard not to be amused by how easily this
semi-literate junior high school-dropout dupes 21st-century
intellectuals.The reason Tarantino has had the time to watch so many bad movies is
because he doesn't like the written word. Most people of Tarantino's
intelligence discover that reading is a higher bandwidth way of finding
out about the world than watching straight-to-video dreck. But the
auteur's learning disability has left him defensively proud that he's
ill informed about everything other than movies.Slavery is a potentially fascinating topic, but to have something
interesting to say about it would require Tarantino to read a book. And
that was never going to happen. After all, white men were the only men
to abolish slavery but who cares about that little tidbit of truth?Tarantino may not know how to spell, but he knows how you are supposed
to think: solely in terms of Who? Whom? The only thing that matters
anymore is whose side you are on.Just as Tarantino is being praised today for empowering blacks by
having them slaughter whites, he was praised for empowering Jews by
having them slaughter Nazis in Inglourious Basterds and empowering
women by having them slaughter men in Kill Bill.As you may have noticed, Tarantino isn't black, Jewish, or female. Nor
has he shown much genuine interest in those designated victim groups.
Instead, Tarantino's favorites have always been middle-aged movie tough
guys.A cynic might suggest that what Tarantino really likes is the
slaughtering. He's happy to make the details of who slaughters whom
conform to the current prejudices, just as long as he gets to keep up
the gore level. All Tarantino has had to do to critic-proof himself is
identify the zeitgeist's sacred cows (so far, women, Jews, and blacks,
but not gays) and have them massacre their foes. (Someday we may be
treated to a Tarantino ABC Afterschool Special about the plague of
bullying in which a CGI version of Charles Bronson show up at school to
take out the homophobic trash.) The premise of Tarantino's latest film
is that "young Django," a slave played by 45-year-old Jamie Foxx, teams
up with the loquacious Christoph Waltz, 56 (once again dripping with
Gemütlichkeit before he suddenly guns everybody down) to kick white
butt. In 2009's Inglourious Basterds, Waltz played a Nazi bad guy,
while in Django he's a Viennese anti-slavery good guy, but he's always
the same character, Tarantino's talkative alter ego.Indeed, Basterds' Jewish revenge plot was essentially a front to allow
Tarantino to indulge his fascination with National Socialist (Nazi)
cinema. What would it have been like, Quentin wondered, if he had been
Goebbels to Harvey Weinstein's Hitler? In Django, a similarly vast
amount of the dialogue is turned over to Waltz. Unfortunately,
Tarantino's Teutonophilia can't get much traction in Django. He has a
vague notion that in 1858 Richard Wagner was contemplating The Ring
cycle—thus Django's wife is named Broomhilda—but has no idea what Waltz
ought to do with that. (The excessively articulate Waltz would be
better suited to playing Wagner,but the composer never killed anybody
and lived before the invention of movies, so don't look to Quentin for
biopic ideas.) All these distractions leave poor Foxx with little to do
except shoot white people.In 2013, is the black gun violence Tarantino espouses really such a
fascinating new phenomenon? For generations now, American media have
been encouraging blacks to take violent retribution. We're coming up on
close to a half-century of whites in the media egging on black
badassery.How's Tarantino's macho minstrel show working out for black males,
anyway? According to a 1967 government report sponsored by the Surgeon
General, the black homicide rate began to rise in 1962 after a long
decline. Mostly, though, whites just move out of the way and blacks
kill each other. The federal Bureau of Justice Statistics reports that
for the 30 years from 1976-2005, there were 276,000 African-American
homicide victims, 94% of them murdered by other blacks. They also hold
the title in interracial rape with an average of 37,000 black on white
assaults per year while the white on black is listed as "less than 10,"
which we all know means zero.But who cares about a quarter of a million murdered black people and
interracial rape? What matters is white-on-white moral status striving.
And in that eternal war, even Quentin Tarantino is a welcome recruit.
Enjoy.
