9
One word:  Mjollnir!

I have noticed a trend of negative reviews directed at the humor in the
movie. Listen...humor is subjective. It's also a big part of these
types of movies. When I read someone criticize the movie because the
heroes are dropping one-liners during intense fighting scenes and to
them, this downplays the seriousness of the situation or shows a lack
of concern for safety from our heroes, I shake my head so hard I get
dizzy.This is a comic book movie! It's a fantasy/fiction/whatever you want to
call it! I'm not a comic book expert, but have been a big fan of the
Marvel Universe on film since Iron Man 1. I found the writing in AoU to
be sharp and witty. And yes, I laughed more than I thought I would. "There's not enough character development!" I've seen this in the
negative reviews, too. Look, we've had 3 Iron Mans, 2 Captain Americas,
2 Thors, and a Hulk movie to develop the characters. At this point,
there isn't much more we really need, is there? Yes, we see more about
Hawkeye's personal side here, but to me, that only feels fair since
he's not big enough to carry his own film. And given that he's very
much just a human with a great set of physical skills and is less
protected and faces his mortality far more than the others do, I felt
like it made perfect sense here. We see and learn more about Black
Widow in this one, as well. So the complaints about character
development don't hold any weight to me. It sounds like the angst of a
group of people expecting to see the Empire Strikes Back version of the
Avengers. In Age of Ultron, we get immediate, sustained action. I don't know
about you, but if I'm going to watch a movie with a cast of characters
that have the abilities of the Avengers, I want to see them in action!
The creativity of the collaborative fighting was improved as well and
was featured much more so than in the first one. That was something
that I think the first film lacked, the side by side teamwork. This
movie held my attention from start to finish. As my summary says above, Mjollnir is a pleasantly surprising star of
the movie. When you watch it, you'll see why and in my opinion, if you
don't enjoy its role here, you really just have a bad attitude!
