8
An intriguing, complex psychological thriller

Steven Soderbergh has decided to end his career what can only be
described as a pharmaceutical, psychosexual thriller that deals with
several morally ambiguous characters all revolving around one horrible
incident. Out of fear of giving away the intelligent, twist-filled plot
written by Scot Z. Burns, that's really all I can say, although I can
tell you that Soderbergh directs the film with extreme confidence, and
it shows. He was able to convey a sort of quiet chaos with his frequent
close-ups, and, by shifting in-and-out of focus throughout the screen,
he was able to draw attention to the many small, yet important details.The real strength of this film, though, is not necessarily the story
itself, but how it is presented. To be honest, the story is almost too
smart to the point of absurdity, but it never comes off as such. By
releasing only one small piece of information at a time, we are kept
waiting through interviews, court hearings, false trails, and many
psychiatrist visits until, finally, everything comes together into one
neat conclusion. The entire film is very subdued, but if you pay
attention, you will be rewarded in the end.Of course, the story would not have turned out so well without the
multiple impressive performances that carry it all the way through.
Rooney Mara is once again stunning as Emily Taylor, a woman who starts
taking prescription antidepressants to cope with her husband's release
from prison. Without giving much away, Emily is far more complex than
she first appears, and Mara plays this perfectly by retaining a dark
mysteriousness about her. She truly steals every scene she's in, and
displays such a range of emotions that, at times, it's difficult to
tell what her character is truly thinking. This is unfortunate for
Channing Tatum, who does a fine job as her loving and sympathetic
husband trying to make everything right after being released for
insider trading, but who doesn't have close to enough material to
compete with Mara.Jude Law, on the other hand, is arguably the most central figure as Dr.
Jonathan Banks, Emily's psychiatrist who is thrown into a scandal when
his patient is involved in a tragic accident after taking an
antidepressant he prescribed for her. He slowly mentally unravels as
his decisions come back to haunt him, and eventually has to cross
several moral boundaries in order to get his life back on track. Law
shows this frustration with expert skill, and gives one of the best
performances of his recent career. The same can be said for Catherine
Zeta- Jones, who—as Emily's former psychiatrist Dr. Victoria
Siebert—gives possibly the most complex performance, and does it
brilliantly despite her lack of screen time.To give away any more would be to say too much, as the film is so
perfectly structured, it is difficult to discuss without giving away
the whole thing. All I can add is, it is not so simple and
straightforward as it may appear. It is a complex of characters, their
motives, and the consequences of their actions, and, despite taking a
while to get started, it is truly a spectacular, thrilling, and
intricate journey that should not be missed.
