9
I'm not gonna lie this is one of Adam Sandler's best.

I love this movie! This is one of my favorites from Adam Sandler. It
felt like a birthday present from Adam Sandler because it came out the
day after my birthday but I took advantage of the early 7:00 showings
and I laughed throughout the entire movie. Adam Sandler was funny as
usual but was eventually outshined by Josh Gad. I liked Kevin James as
the President. A lot of people thought he was a poor choice but I
thought it worked for this movie. Michelle Monaghan was great. I don't
think Peter Dinklage was the best thing about the movie but he was
good. I really liked the presence of Brian Cox but I wish there was
more of him. I liked the fact that Sean Bean was in it but I don't care
for the accent he used. I was surprised that Ashley Benson had no
dialogue but she's pretty and I thought her character was pretty cool.
I honestly think this and Pearl Harbor are some of the most underrated
movies I've ever seen. I don't entirely get why people hate this movie
because it has a great concept. It's like people think a movie's
automatically bad because Adam Sandler's involved. He has talent. Sure
he plays the same character in almost every movie he's in but if you're
like me you can set that aside and enjoy his movies. I'm not saying all
Adam Sandler movies are great but I enjoy most of them. Why was this
the movie that had people saying that Adam Sandler has to quit movies?
This movie is an Academy Award winner compared to what I've seen of
Jack and Jill. It makes me sad that after this movie he basically
started acting in Netflix movies. I am glad that The Meyerowitz Stories
is getting a limited release in theaters but I do hope Adam Sandler
comes back. This movie is not without its problems. I don't like how it
just jumps into the some of the action sequences without any set up and
it would have been nice if there could have been more 80s songs like
Danger Zone by Kenny Loggins. I also wish (as I said before) that Brian
Cox appeared in the final scene congratulating the arcaders on their
victory and apologizing for doubting them. Maybe the movie would have
been more successful if it had actors like Robert Downey Jr but it's
great for what it is and I enjoy this movie..
