8
A comedy-drama with a spoonful of sugar

From the studio that brought you Mary Poppins, Disney has released a
biopic about the author of the original novels, P.L Travers. Saving Mr.
Banks is the story of her battles with Walt Disney, who wants the
rights to the film adaptation, in a dramatic comedy that is both witty
and sentimental.Mrs. Pamela P.L. Travers (Emma Thompson) has been hounded by Walt
Disney (Tom Hanks) and the Disney Corporation for 20 years for the film
rights to her book and she has refused constantly. But by 1961, she has
run out of money and agrees to go to Los Angeles for two weeks to work
with the writing team to see if a deal can be struck. Her conditions
are that the film cannot be animated, there are no songs and she has
final script approval. Travers quickly clashes with creative team and
Walt himself, a man who promised his daughters he would adapt the book.As this is going on Travers reflects on her childhood in rural
Australia, with her father (Colin Farrell), a loving man who feeds his
daughter's imagination, but an alcoholic with probable depression and
how these events influenced her writing.Saving Mr. Banks is a film armed with excellent screenplay and a top
notch cast. As well as the likes of Thompson, Hanks and Farrell, Saving
Mr. Banks also features Bradley Whittaker, Jason Schwartzman, Paul
Giamatti, B.J. Novak and Ruth Wilson. They all offer strong
performances and have given us very well defined characters. Thompson
dominates as Travers, a no nonsense woman with poor social skills and a
British Bulldog stubbornness/determination and injects a deadpan humour
with the witty lines she was given. Thompson also brings out the
emotion, the serious aspects of the character, as the shadows of her
past still linger over her.One of the big themes of the film is the writing process, both the
individual, personal aspect and the collaborative effect of a film
adaptation. Saving Mr. Banks shows that many writers use they personal
experience and life and become a part of the author. It is hard for
writers to let go and particularly for Travers, as she has so much
invested in Mary Poppins, so much of herself in it. Her books allowed
her to have some wish fulfilment.The screenwriters Kelly Marcel and Sue Smith, director John Lee Hancock
and editor Mark Livoisi worked brilliant to blending the story of
Travers butting heads with Disney's creative team and her backstory
about her childhood influencing her writing. There are plenty of
transitions, allowing Hancock to have some fancy pans. One particular
noticeable sequence is when the creative team performs one of the songs
and Travers has a flashback. The film slowly reveals how Travers
childhood and her father became a part of her writing, used in the
books and become a part of the themes of her books and philosophies.
This is particularly the case with her parents and their inabilities to
cope, both Travers' father's alcoholism and mother's inability to cope
with the stress, leading to her theme of responsibility. For a film
that is about the writing process, Saving Mr. Banks never really shows
about the writing process that Travers goes through, but explores the
writing process of adapting a work, from one medium to another.The final theme and a big part of the comedy comes from the clashes of
cultures and personalities. Travers is a brash personality with formal,
conservative approach and lives a modest lifestyle in London and a
rustic life in Australia. This in comparison to the overtly friendly
American and their glamour and excess, from the fashion to the food,
particularly sweet treats and the hard sell from Disney in Travers'
hotel room.Saving Mr. Banks has a excellent screenplay, solid direction and
balances the comedy dramatic portions extremely well. The film makes
sure there is plenty of sentiment, particularly with the score by
Thomas Newman. It is a safe film, but still a pleasing experience. It
is perfect if you are a fan of Mary Poppins and you will have the songs
stuck in your head.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
