8
Gorgeous...

There is quote by Kurt Vonnegut that comes to mind when I think of
Maudie, the latest film based on the real life and times of an artist.
"Practicing an art, no matter how well or badly, is a way to make your
soul grow, for heaven's sake. Sing in the shower. Dance to the radio.
Tell stories. Write a poem to a friend, even a lousy poem. Do it as
well as you possibly can. You will get an enormous reward. You will
have created something." That may sound like a backhanded compliment
but if Maud Lewis was portrayed accurately in the film, I doubt she'll
mind. To her painting wasn't a source of ego or pride. It was something
she just did - to make herself happy - and if it made others happy all
the better.The film picks up with Maudie, played with understated sensitivity by
Sally Hawkins, as she struggles and fails to earn the respect of her
family. Despite her severe arthritis, Maudie answers an advert for a
live-in maid and runs away. She moves in with and eventually marries
the crotchety Everett Lewis (Hawke), a fishmonger who manages to put on
a grim smile but once over the film's 40+ year time span. After a time
living in Everett's dimly lit squalor, Maudie relights her passion for
painting using abandoned cork board and the walls of her new home to
paint continuously.The true-life Maudie was eventually considered Canada's most popular
and prolific folk artist; though one could hardly tell given the
solitude that follows Maudie throughout her life. In the film, she
remains isolated, largely due to her debilitating arthritis and painful
shyness around strangers. There's one awkward scene early on where Maud
struggles to shuffle out of a doorway and stick her head out long
enough to compliment a woman's shoes. In that moment we realize her
deep desire to be both accepted and left alone.The film aptly compliment's the artist's own frailties and
unconventionality with a strikingly brittle and unconventional love
story. Maud's warmth towards Everett is sincere and unconditional. She
sees in him, a beautiful person - an outcast like her who has been made
wild by the cruelties of life but nevertheless deserves her love. As
open as Maudie is to the inner-beauties of a warm sunset, Everett
remains as cold and brutal as a winter storm. Yet every time he "puts a
foot down," he wordlessly capitulates. He grumbles and erupts in
objectively despicable behavior but Maud always seems to convince him
that he's capable of love and being loved.The film continues down this path of bittersweet co-dependence and as
the relationship develops, we see the results of Maud's patience and
virtue. Thanks to the remarkably assured cinematography of Guy Godfree,
the film crackles with natural beauty and warmth of a cozy hearth.
There are some truly breathtaking natural vistas on display here, which
despite their expanse manage to feel intimate and idyllic.As a film Maudie is certainly within the ranks of Mr. Turner (2014), My
Left Foot (1989) and Lust for Life (1956). Much like those films,
Maudie centers on the life of a tortured artist whose personal story
tells something truly meaningful about the human condition. It also has
a truly award-worthy performance by Sally Hawkins who is at this point
in a class of her own.
