1
A low point in both M Night Shyamalan and Will Smith's careers, with one of the worst child performances I've seen for any film

It is not as if I immediately hate on M Night Shyamalan. The Sixth
Sense was a masterpiece and Unbreakable was great. Of the movies that
get a lot of hate The Village was the least bad, not great but pretty
decent(while Shyamalan didn't direct but produced and wrote Devil, that
also applies here). Signs was pretty good until it went off the boil in
the second half, which really brought things down to a significant
degree. The others were as bad as I'd heard. Lady in the Water was
well-made generally and I liked Bryce Dallas Howard in it as well as
the score but the rest was a muddled mess. The Happening and The Last
Airbender suffered mainly from having such potential but falling hard
big time, Happening did have some unintentional comic value(mainly
because Mark Walhberg's acting was so laughably bad) and Airbender had
great visuals and score.After Earth didn't have as much potential as those two but didn't have
any of the things that raised the other two up a slight notch. That of
which in my mind makes After Earth worse. It is not the worst film I've
seen or one of the worst and but it is the worst film that I've seen so
far this year. I wouldn't say that James Newton Howard's score is bad
actually here. It does have some beautiful sounds, it's just sparingly
used and while well-composed and fitting it is also one of those scores
that I came out of the cinema not remembering most of. The visuals
didn't do anything for me either, the sets were surprisingly drab and
unimaginative and the special effects were very repetitively used. The
photography and editing had moments where they were decent but others
where they were amateurish, too many times steering towards the latter,
the jump cut shots were just annoying and took away from any shocks,
tension or suspense. With Sixth Sense and Unbreakable, up until after
The Village Shyamalan showed potential but after that point saw him
getting lazy. And that was the case with After Earth, I saw little if
any heart or character in the directing.Same with the story and scripting too. The dialogue was so
awkward-sounding and clichéd, often I found myself not being able to
take what I was hearing seriously. Instead of making me get engrossed
in the characters, their situation and feelings, I found that the
dialogue and delivery was just distracting. Shyamalan showed with Sixth
Sense, Unbreakable and the first half of Signs that he did have
potential to tell a good story. Since though, his storytelling has
consisted of some good ideas that are executed badly, all too clear
here. The already admittedly by-the-numbers story here was incredibly
plodding and confused, very little made sense and there was nothing
gripping. I found it very difficult to get emotionally invested in the
characters either or the father-son relationship(a bad thing
considering that this is the driving force really of the film). The
acting was very poor, even from pretty and quite talented Sophie
Okonedo, who was under-utilised. Will Smith is a likable actor and guy,
but has never been this one-note or disengaged before, maybe his
character was meant to be like that but it didn't mean that Smith had
to take it to extremes.Jaden Smith, Will Smith's own son, was even worse, and along with the
story his performance was probably the worst thing about the film. He
had nowhere near enough experience for this type of film and probably
in general(though he was not too bad in The Karate Kid), and clearly
looked uncomfortable. Along with a very uncharismatic presence and
painful dialogue delivery his performance was stilted and (in the
voice) very shrill, it is one of the worst child performances on film
I've seen personally- that's saying a fair bit too- and I sensed no
chemistry at all between him and his dad which for obvious reasons is
quite ironic. All in all, a really terrible film and the only film of
Shyamalan's that, apart from perhaps the nicely composed if spare and
at the end of the day forgettable score, was close to having no
redeeming values. Critics have increasingly gotten an undeservedly bad rap, true there
have been a fair number of times where I have disagreed with them but
After Earth is one of those times where they got it exactly right. And
before anybody who likes it flames me, I did watch After Earth with an
open mind and no prejudices, though admittedly with knowledge of its
reputation. If you liked it, good for you, I and a lot of other people
didn't and for perfectly valid reasons and should be allowed to think
what we want. If you can't see that, that's your problem, not ours, and
this is in general on IMDb. Sorry for the irrelevant rant there but I
have seen a lot of critic-bashing going on lately and lots of
accusations like "being pretentious", "pretending to like it", "having
the inability to make up our own mind" and "not having a sense of
humour" and I'm getting sick and tired of it. And please stop using the
racism argument, it is very shallow and it is not fair for people who
did genuinely see it, rated it fairly as we thought and for whom racism
and bigotry is a pet peeve of theirs.1/10 Bethany Cox
