1
Exodus retold, an Epic's epic failure

First, I have a question about the title itself, the movie clearly
claims to be based out of the bible. So, who are the Gods here, isn't
it one God who brought His people out of Egypt which the movie boasts
about also? Has the director taken the words of Pharaoh too seriously
when he says I am God? Let alone the title,as I walked into the theater late, I only saw
Christian Bale saving some kingly dressed Egyptian. And the next thing
I see the Egyptian man calls him Moses. Where is this coming from?
Sure, Moses lived in the palace raised by the Pharaoh's daughter but
when did he save Pharaoh's son in the war? Moses, the author of Exodus
himself would have remembered to give himself that credit if he did
that, wouldn't he? Well, the director tries to make a point about the 'valiant' Moses, But
later you find it is little too much exaggeration of thought to give
screen time of around 20 minutes to the whole act of Moses discovering
about his nationality, when Bible just conveys that he already knew he
is a Hebrew.Absolutely ridiculous thing is to use Ben Kingsley as Nun,
who is the father of Joshua for the dramatic effect of letting the cat
out of the bag that Moses is a Hebrew. All this successfully blurs the
actual details of the character of Moses through the way he was raised.
Truth about his nationality and race helped him choose the side and
kill the Egyptian in the first instance he saw his people troubled.
That is what truth does; it will aid you in judgment. The most disappointing scene in the movie has not yet come until you
see a bush burning and a small boy saying that he is the I AM. I was
looking forward to this entire dialog between God and Moses but
apparently this Moses was sinking in mud hit by stones and he wakes up
getting convinced by his wife that it is all in his head. Yeah, as this
Moses doesn't go with a staff on to this mountain like the one guarding
the sheep, also misses God's instruction to use staff to work wonders
to convince his people. I know, now we just wait for him to get back to Egypt and set things in
action, meet Aaron and negotiate with Pharaoh regarding the release of
his people. But you will be shocked that this Moses is neither the one
who stammers with tongue nor with his sword. He secretly ambushes
Pharaoh in his palace and threatens him in the name of God.For whatever
reasons, Moses here trains an army of handful of Israelite men the
basics of archery, for what? to take down the entire Egyptian army? I
doubt that! To deal with this adamant Moses, God says I will do my
business, you can stop fighting, only to dampen the Moses's mighty
spirit to save his own people. I can't believe they showed the plagues to have had fueled from the
river full of crazy crocodiles eating 10 men!! Whatever the director
thought of the original story of Aaron using his staff on the river to
change it into blood, he came up with this idiotic picture in his head.
And all the other plagues are the effect of this blood plague! Clearly
there was no effort made while narrating this story to convey that
Hebrew people are not being affected by the plagues. On top of it,
Moses is telling God to fall in line with the story by saying that
everyone is getting affected by these bloody plagues can you like stop? Thanks to the disobedient Moses, it helped the director not convey
God's repeated messages to Pharaoh, warning him to leave Israelites
from his country. Good God! Somehow, Moses cryptically warns Pharaoh
that his son might die that night if he wouldn't let his people out of
country by night. I couldn't stop wondering if it not for the actual
Pharaoh, this Pharaoh would have listened if Moses just spoke the words
as absolute God's word.By now, we should know what to expect from this Moses, but I was
totally unmoved by his concern for lambs over the preparation for
Passover. We see that the movie might end soon when Hebrew people start
to leave Egypt with anticipation about the great Red sea scene. Another
disappointment greets us there as well, no amount of joy is shown on
the faces of people who have been slaves for 400 years once they got
freedom, I am sure the director very well knows how America celebrates
4th of July! I think I need to let go of some more failures of Moses here and just
come to the end, yeah there is no parting of the red sea! You will be
aghast to discover the reason for water to recede, Moses flinging his
sword into the water! Moses has absolutely no clue where he is going,
no God to talk to him. Pharaoh hasn't lost the lead, follows him soon.
Given the confused emotions of Moses about his love for his Pharaoh
Brother putting him in turmoil, fighting his own personal battles he
waits and waits to be drowned in the flood. Oh no, they didn't kill him
and our hero comes out of the sea to the side where Hebrews are
waiting. Now, who led who exactly! Sigh!!The onward journey began, and there comes the Mt Sinai, God called
Moses to write 10 commandments, the futility of the movie became
crystal clear as God serves him tea and asks him to write a commandment
if he agrees on the validity of that particular command. In conclusion, it's a story told but the truth left untold!
