2
She's like Chucky, only boring!

There were only two, count em', two well constructed and (more
importantly) scary sequences throughout this entire HORROR MOVIE (the
home invasion part and the elevator bit). If that fact alone is enough
to get one person not to watch "Annabelle", then I've done my job as a
critic.If you went into "Annabelle" wanting to see something along the lines
of "Child's Play" or at the very least, a doll-centric horror movie
where dolls are either animated in some fashion or at the very least,
trip someone as they walk down the stairs, then you will be savagely
disappointed. On the other hand, if you were a fan of the small snippet
of Annabelle's story shown in "The Conjuring" and wanted a terrifying
and in-depth origins story, then youwill be disappointed as well.Synopsis: With an engaging set up, set against the rampant cult-phobia
of the 60's, "Annabelle" is the story of a couple living in California
who begin to experience paranormal occurrences after the husband gifts
his pregnant, doll-crazed wife a doll, that soaks up blood faster than
a Bounty paper towel. After that, the plot falls pretty flat by turning
its focus away from the scary doll element, as the story becomes 10%
"Rosemary's Baby", 20% every single haunted house movie ever and 70%
watered down scares.Aside from the fact that not for one second did I care about any of the
characters here, for the most part director John R. Leonetti (the
director of photography of "The Conjuring") does a lazy job of
"conjuring" up scares. For about 80 minutes of this 98 minute film,
every single scare follows the ultra uncreative quiet, quiet, quiet,
LOUD, formula. About 20 minutes in, it becomes obvious that Leonetti is
either just going through the motions or doing a rather poor job of
plagiarizing much scarier films.Final Thought: Much like the countless throw away, straight to DVD
Disney animated sequels to come out of late the 90's and early 2000's
(Pocahontas 2: Journey to a New World, The Little Mermaid 2: Return to
the Sea, Cinderella 2: Dreams Come True") "Annabelle" (a prequel) is
nothing more than a soulless money-grab from this particular production
company, attempting to feed off the success of "The Conjuring". No
mention of Ed and Lorraine Warren (real life paranormal investigators
from "The Conjuring") no James Wan (the director of "The Conjuring")
and not one doll-induced scare, all seemed to have a hand in making
"Annabelle" a strikingly forgettable film. I mean, in "The Conjuring",
the Annabelle doll is only used in all of three scenes, but due to some
smart direction, those are some of the scariest potions of the movie.
In "Annabelle", the titular doll is used throughout and it's not even a
little bit creepy. What gives?
