10
Fantastic acting, work of art.

Art isn't always pleasant. Especially when you are looking at pure
reality directly in the face of addiction, alcoholism, infidelity, and
divorce. Some reviewers have complained that they thought the acting
was good, but the story unpleasant. They didn't enjoy the story because
of how awful the characters were, and subject matter as depressing.
Well, this is what makes the film, and the character's dialog is
absolutely ingenious. The first child (Julia Roberts) has a lot of
pieces to pick up, and then she has to shatter them. She is the "adult"
who can't stomach her mother's drug addiction, and left because of her
father's alcoholism. But she returns to try and be a parent to her
mother and younger siblings when her father goes missing. This all
falls apart. Not because of her inabilities, but because everyone is so
far dysfunctional, her efforts are in vain. Meanwhile, she has her own
miserable divorce happening, along with her own child who reeks of
indifference toward her. Meryl Streep is a master actress, who plays
the drug addict beautifully. She is the destroyer of the family and
herself, but she was raised by a real bitch of a mother in a really
terrible childhood. Her husband, Sam Shepard is a cheating alcoholic
who spent his early childhood years living in a car with his homeless
family. Both parents are wise people, but suffer the demons of their
youth. They carry this pain into addiction and coldness, which
shattered their kids. The eldest daughter is the "parent". The middle
daughter is a quiet mess loner, and the youngest daughter a clingy,
vain woman who talks too much and gold digs to escape, no matter how
terrible the fiancé' turns out to be. The absolute best part of this
film is the family funeral dinner. These actors must have either
rehearsed for a year, or improvised the entire scene. Either way, it
was the best piece of team acting I've seen, ever. The dialog in this
film was very intelligent and meaningful. I really identified with the
Julia Roberts character's open thoughts about the world. Actually, I
also could relate to the father and his brother in law, which is very
rare for me. Most movies out of Hollywood are just too damned liberally
tainted, with cliché' references to "Paris" and politically
correctness. This movie did "Belize" and the argument about political
correctness was realistic as hell. I really liked that Hollyweird did
something right for once. In one particular scene, the aunt asks her
husband to feel her sweaty back. They are playing around and that is
really a director's gem in this film. It was funny and I also loved the
interaction over who was drinking in the living room. The writer and
director really had a grasp on real situational family dynamics. The
Ferrari was hilarious and a nice touch. Lots of dark situational humor.
I recommend this film to those who will understand the reason for it to
exist, and for that you have to have a brain, or have been in a family
situation which dealt with addiction. Remember that you are in the
audience, not in the room with them, so you can take yourself out of
that emotion if you want. If you decide you don't like the
people/characters, you can still respect them, the acting, the
situation, the masterful plot, and dynamics of the dialog. I gave this
film a 10 because of the acting, humor, and realism.
