9
A real fake life

Ceaselessly the woman talks at the elderly lady next to her: on the
plane, at the airport, waiting for their luggage. Only when her husband
picks her up, she is able to free herself from the incessant flood of
words. This is how Blue Jasmine, Woody Allen's latest film begins. It
ends with the same woman sitting down on a park bench, talking again.
The lady sitting beside her gets up and leaves, the talker does not
even notice. In these two scenes – so similar and yet so different –
Allen frames his tale of Jasmine whose real name is Jeanette. A woman
who, married to a rich financial entrepreneur, once was at the heart of
New York City's high society. Now she must relocate to San Francisco,
to live with her despised sister. When her husband's criminal
activities were discovered and he subsequently hung himself in his
cell, she lost everything: her jewels, her money, her footing, her
mental balance. This is Woody Allen's take on the financial crisis,
bankers spun out of control, the Bernie Madoffs of this world.He looks at the effects on someone who once profited from the
fraudulent schemes and then fell from grace, one who so internalized
the artificial world she chose to live in that now she cannot leave it.
Try as she may, she cannot return to reality, moving from daydreaming
escapes to the past to empty illusions about her future, unable to
grasp the necessities of the life she must now live. Blue Jasmine tells
the story of what happens when you live in a fake world and are thrown
into the real world. It is the tragedy of a woman caught in her dream,
one she cannot give up anymore. She is the victim we have a hard time
pitying, the winner who loses everything while she goes on believing
that everyone else is a loser around her.Cate Blanchett is Jasmine and she gives the strongest performance to
date in a career full of memorable performances. She plays Jasmine
between hysteria and desperation and slowly maps her subtle descend
from overwrought nervous tension into a stupor equally induced by
alcohol, prescriptions drugs, self-delusions and a complete failure at
getting to terms with reality. She is broke, yet flies first class, she
moves in with her sister who bags groceries at a local store, yet
travels with Louis Vuitton suitcases – none of this being a
contradiction in her mind. Blanchett is spectacular in the radical way
with which he merges with her deconstructing and dissolving character.
She carries the film with her characters' helpless attempts at dignity,
her ridiculous pretense, her losing any grip in her life and her mind.
Sally Hawkins as her sister is a wonderful counterpart: down to earth,
yet full of the same desire to have a better life, the same
dissatisfaction with what she has. But while she comes around to
accepting what she has, no matter how little that may be. Jasmine
cannot.Allen moves back and forth between the present and flashbacks of the
past, often caused by a sudden memory or the topic of a conversation.
Strangely, it is those past scenes that feel more real. Whereas the
dreary present is drenched in a pale, vague sunny light, giving it a
slightly unreal, dream like feel, corresponding well with the nostalgic
jazz soundtrack Allen has chosen, the memories seem sharper, more
matter of fact, more plausible. This reflects Jasmine's perception: for
her the fake is the real and the real a nightmare she must wake up
from. And it seems she might: love enters, a chance to resume the life
she once had and for a short time, the old socialite returns, the
façade though a little cracked is polished and looks as good as new.
But all falls apart again, and night falls on Jasmine.Blue Jasmine is Woody Allen's first drama in a long time. Although he
does, at times, allow his portrait of Jasmine to touch on the
caricaturesque, the film remains too close to her existential
desperation to allow for cathartic laughter. Instead the film, despite
the essentially unlikable title character, is a touching story about
the delusion of those who believe in the fake, who build their lives on
dreams and self-deception, who invent a life so thoroughly that they
come to believe in it. And it shows a society built on the principle of
make belief – and the willingness of many to defy logic for the blind
faith in the god of money. Yes, some of the plot twists are a little
implausible, yes, the contrast between the phony rich and the
ultimately good-hearted poor, is a little simplistic, but overall Blue
Jasmine is an entirely convincing study of the dissolution of a self,
carried by a focused direction and an acting performance that is great
beyond belief, making this Woody Allen's strongest film in a long time.http://stagescreen.wordpress.com/
