8
Another success; The Purge franchise hasn't messed up quite yet.

Here we all are with yet another year of purging; The Purge: Election
Year, or just The Purge 3 is a film that finds itself in assumption for
the worse, but has actually managed to stabilize itself into it's third
year, keeping solid, as well as keeping The Purge franchise followers
happy.So knowing that the first film was pretty good, leading to the second
that actually managed ( In my opinion ) to rise itself a bit higher..
this was exciting news to know another installment was coming, and here
we are; This film was interesting as a whole. The film now takes upon
the more deeper insight of the entire ordeal, the political standpoint
on the entirety of the purge itself, and how it can be used to surpass
wants. At the same time, the film, like the others in a way succeeds in
bringing the audience into an adventure that revolves around the
characters / protagonists as they are forced through the horrifying
events that follow the entirety of the purge. With all of that being
said, this film as a whole was intriguing. It had a pretty good villain
to hero - type of plot going for it, and that stood out well for the
entire film. We, the audience are overall sitting intrigued, unable to
look away as we're greeted with surprises on every corner, challenge
after challenge, and overall ordeal of action that strikes fear to
those watching. The scenes of action were intense, and thrilling.
Whenever such actions take place, we suddenly find ourselves watching
an all out battle, wondering if anything drastic toward our main
characters shall happen as we sit, intrigued; It was absolutely
awesome, as well to see such events take place, and to see the film
succeed in such levels, and portrayals of intensity and action. Aside
from all that, on the other hand, this film seemed to take an even more
interesting turn toward it's horror side of things. Throughout the film
there we're greeted with a rather eerie, impending - doom type feeling;
Of course, such vibes and such were given off in the other two films,
but this one seemed to crank the level up a bit on that note,
introducing itself overall with it, leading to it's success within it's
eerie atmosphere, visual eye candy, and just overall events that were
executed. Overall on such note, the film cranked up its levels in this
one, which of course was a very pleasant surprise, and an exciting
aspect for Purge franchise followers. This film felt more intense, and
eerie throughout the entire length of the film, the action scenes, as
well as events were executed intriguingly, and smoothly. And the Purge
blood, gore, and even jump scares as well were well themselves. Another
element that was extremely eventful to watch through this horror trip
were the characters. From the senator, to the NFFA organization, to the
purgers' themselves, it all stood out, and surprisingly enough lead
itself into some pleasing twists, and turns. The main characters
including The senator Charlie, the characters picked up throughout the
film, Leo, and of course her overall competition / enemies each worked
in unique ways, and all seemed to work with the story, and not just
seem like a pointless character dropped off. It was extremely fun
seeing characters such as Leo return, as well ( After being in the
second film ) they had great roles, and truly executed their survival
throughout simplistically. Overall, with all of our leading characters
however, each had a heavy heart throughout the story, displaying their
care for each other, how each of them connect, and look out for each
other as a whole through the hellish ordeal; Sappy. Overall it was fun
to see characters return, and watching them go through the twists, and
turns of the overall purge was fun as well; The film succeeding in
stabilizing their characters, keeping them from becoming boring, or
worn out. In conclusion, this was a fun watch. A third installment that's assumed
to suck - but ended up being just what the entire franchise needed. Fun
characters, awesome portrayal of them as well, returns, unique
personalities, as well as additions to the story that works. A turn -
up within the topic of their gore, as well as shock value with how the
kills are executed, not too much, but also not to little. And to top it
all off, an interesting story that stays solid throughout, not seeming
to give up with its twists, turns, and overall adventurous, yet at the
same time eerie overall execution. The only real problem that stood
with this film is the fact that it tends to drag on at times, the film
became slow within the middle - to end parts; But every movie has it's
moment like such. I feel as if Purge franchise followers, and overall
fans won't be disappointed, instead pleased. This was a fun watch, I
personally recommend experiencing it.
