4
Painful to watch

"I always take a gun to a knife fight..." I provided this rating based on the fact that I would not see this
movie a second time, would not recommend it to a friend, and did not
take anything away from it other than the thought that Quentin
Tarantino must have been high when he agreed to lend his name out for
it.I saw this movie because of my love for martial arts flicks, and I
usually give all of them a chance. Also because I am a huge Wu-Tang
Clan fan. What I expected to see was some decent fight choreography
back-dropped with a grimy, old-school soundtrack. Now from what I
recall on the soundtrack part, it did not deliver. And I know that RZA
could have incorporated a couple tracks that would have lined this film
up nice. Some that could have been included were; Da Mystery of
Chessboxin', Wu-Tang Clan Ain't Nuttin ta F*** Wit, and pretty much
anything from the 36 Chambers album. The fight scenes were mediocre
until near the end to which I decided I would suck it up and just watch
the rest of the movie. The first scene of the film actually made me
angry because the fight scene was chopped up (which I hate), and the
track they used in the background (actually from the 36 Chambers album)
just didn't fit right!Other things that were disappointing, other than Bautista from WWE
showing up, was the weak script and amateurish plot. The dialogue was
horrible (see quote from above) and the plot was...well there wasn't
really a plot at all. I walked out of the movie asking myself/trying to
remember what the story was really about. I'm not sure if it was
because I was blown away by RZA's acting or because I was too busy
trying to figure out why Russell Crowe was in the movie at all.The set and costume design were the only things I thought were good
about the movie. And the effort to create something visually appealing
did not go unnoticed. But its all about the story and characters, which
were both lacking aside from Lucy Liu's bit. Wait I think I just
remembered what the movie was about...yeah it's pretty weak.If Quentin Tarantino had more involvement/any involvement at all in
this movie it might have been quite possibly something spectacular. But
then RZA would have probably not been in it. Hey when is Kill Bill Vol
3 coming out?
