8
Watch it - you won't get anything better this year

The Hollywood line-up this year doesn't provide anything remotely
interesting. So don't let a shaky story-line, unnecessary dialogue and
slightly hammy acting dissuade you from watching the most stunning
visuals since "Avatar".Based on 60s French cult comic series "Valerian & Laureline" - mystery
to me why didn't they keep that title -, the magnificent opening
sequence sets the tone for a more esoteric approach to Sci-Fi than
"Star Wars". I won't let on about the story too much so as not to ruin
any element of surprise. Let's just say they really should have lost
the romantic chitchat. It makes the film drag at inconvenient times.
With real writers, this could have become a classic.The draw is the eye candy and there's plenty of it. Again I cannot in
good conscience divulge any details. Again let's just say that one gets
treated to the most creative use of lemons in the history of film. I'll
have to watch it again to catch all the pop art references. Aliens were
never more beautiful, more sophisticated, more varied. And while the
Rihanna scene cannot compete with the opera scene in "5th Element",
it's the best use of a performance act in film in years.Alas, when one thinks "5th Element", the main weaknesses of "Valerian"
stands out clearly: mediocre acting and a terrible script. Bloodless
DeHaan is the most dreadfully miscast lead since Tom Hiddleston in
"Kong: Skull Island". Why didn't they cast the likes of Theo James with
over $200 mil to burn? Cara Delevingne is cool but no Milla Jovovich -
Besson loved Jovovich for real and the camera and editing really showed
that. Delevingne's Laureline comes across as a run-of-the-mill heroine
even though she's doing a solid job. Clive Owen cannot even remotely
compare to Gary Oldman's Hitleresque splendor. Strangely enough, the
CGI aliens do the best acting and have all the memorable lines.
Besson's script-writing has always been shaky but seems to get
progressively worse.Still, compared to this year's Hollywood fare of sequels, yet another
superhero franchise and musicals with thespians who cannot sing,
"Valerian" is infinitely more entertaining.
