5
Charming, fun, predictable, forgettable.

When Pitch aka The boogeyman attacks Earth in a bid to be remembered 

and feared by the world's children, the Immortal Guardians (North/Santa 

Claus, Tooth Fairy, Sandman and Easter Bunny) stand together to fight 

his onslaught but even united they are too weak and so the man in the 

moon adds another guardian to their list: Jack Frost.



Rise of the Guardians opens with a wink to The Bourne Identity with 

Jack Frost (Chris Pine) floating in water before springing to life and 

extricating himself from the frozen lake and spending the next three 

hundred years wreaking havoc with his talents and generally kicking 

about the world like a mildly rebellious, bored teenager until called 

upon by the big boss.



It's a fun introduction during which we see some beautiful effects as 

he frosts windows, freezes trees and causes snowball fights and other 

snow fun. Then Rise of the Guardians becomes cluttered and looses some 

of its magic. It's an obvious plot where good must triumph over evil 

and the reluctant hero must work out what is at his centre (my seven 

year old niece, Teah, worked that out the moment it was mentioned in 

the film and a good hour before Jack Frost managed to, which says a 

great deal about the laziness of the scripting) in order to release the 

full power he holds.



There are some charming moments but largely they are due to the 

animation rather than the action. In a lovely touch, Sandman is mute 

and communicates with sandy icons that appear above his head and though 

physically he is a bland, child-friendly interpretation, the animation 

of his sandy strings that crisscross around the world carrying dreams 

to children are beautifully crafted. Likewise, Tooth (Isla Fisher) 

brings colour and warm beauty to the screen that contrasts fabulously 

with the nightmarish images that swirl around Pitch.



But, important though the animation is, it doesn't count for much if 

the story isn't there. It is all fairly predictable with a resolution 

that cheats (without wishing to spoil the plot, a significant 

character's situation is reversed without explanation) and is lazy (the 

children are the key) and renders much of what went before as 

pointless.



There were fears that Avengers Assemble would throw too many characters 

together with insufficient time or material for many of them to have an 

impact. Somehow Avengers Assemble managed to juggle them pretty 

smoothly but I'm not sure Rise of the Guardians fares as well. Each 

character has his/her own plot thread and moment in the limelight but 

do they really bring anything significant to the film?



There is some fine vocal work from Alec Baldwin (North) and Jude Law 

has fun with his Rufus Sewell impression as Pitch but Hugh Jackman 

brings nothing substantial to the party as Bunny and at what point did 

it become okay to swear in a film watched by very young children? Yes, 

it may be only a couple of barks of 'bloody' but in a children's 

animated film? Really? It's not offensive or shocking but it is 

unnecessary.



More problematic for the audience was that Rise of the Guardians just 

isn't terribly good. I'll give the final word to Teah, though I'm 

overruling her. 



"I'll give it seven. I liked it but it wasn't the best."




