6
Emma Stone and Steve Carell carry an uplifting, but overlong sports film

Battle of the Sexes is a an enjoyable retelling of the famous 1973
tennis match between 29-year-old Billie Jean King and 55-year-old Bobby
Riggs. It was the match that sparked the women's movement in sport and
planted King's status as the greatest tennis player in the world. We
witness the personal journey she went though as she fought for equal
rights in sports and the realization that she was a homosexual. Emma Stone portrays Billie Jean King as a shy and reserved opportunist
who's looking to make the best of her current situation. She's a true
trailblazer that's pushing for equal rights of women in sports. Steve
Carell as Bobby Riggs could not be more opposite from King. He's a
retired tennis champion who can't stop gambling, which frustrates his
wife to the point of no return. He's also an male chauvinist who
believes in the superiority of men and how women should stay in the
kitchen. It couldn't be a better battle between polar opposite
personalities and motives. The film follows the parallel journeys King and Riggs go through to get
to their famous match. King struggles to gain equal pay for women
tennis players, which eventually leads to the creation of her own
women's tennis league. While traveling for matches, she discovers her
homosexuality with her hairdresser, Marilyn. She's torn between her new
desires and the life she already has with her husband, Larry. Riggs
meanwhile is stuck in a midlife crisis and feels that his life has been
missing something since he retired. He's passing his time through
gambling, but wants to plan a major comeback in the tennis world.
Eventually their paths cross and results in one of the biggest and
important sporting events in history.Clocking in at 121 minutes, the film takes its sweet time to build up
King and Riggs' story before the match that begins at the last twenty
minutes. While it's interesting to see their stories unfold, it goes on
for too long and drags in the middle parts just before the match. The
sharing of screen time is also very lopsided towards King while Riggs
is treated almost like a supporting character for the first hour. Riggs
is also portrayed in a comedic tone to try and downplay the impact of
his extremely sexist remarks towards women. It's a tone that doesn't
quite work right and is the opposite of who Riggs was in real life.Directors Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris use their skills from
Little Miss Sunshine to create a personal and emotional film. The tone
of the film is pretty lighthearted and never gets too serious about the
whole situation of equal rights among genders. It allows for a more
feel good sports film that is enjoyable to watch.Shot in 70's style makes the film feel more authentic and grounded in
reality. It feels close to a television documentary and not a Hollywood
production. The famous match is recreated with stunning detail and the
biggest highlight. The acting is the saving grace of the film as Stone and Carell do an
exceptional job portraying the real players. Golden Globe nominations
will come for each of them and maybe even an Academy Award nomination
for Stone. Sarah Silverman also shines as the rough and confident
manager, Gladys. She plays well off Stone in the small amount of time
she gets. Andrea Riseborough is solid as King's lover, Marilyn, who
opens up King's hidden secrets and is the leading contributor to the
emotional arc. Bill Pullman is the only person who doesn't pull of
their role. His sexist boss character is very one dimensional and is
almost cartoonish by the end of the film.Battle of the Sexes is a well acted and uplifting sports film that
suffers from being too slow and too long. It doesn't run as smoothly as
it should, but is enjoyable enough to rank among the better sports
films out there, and definitely the best tennis film.
