5
To anyone saying this is our generations "Rocky" must be "Punch Drunk"

**SPOILERS***This movie is packed with a 1-2 combination of cliché story elements
and very convenient character situations. The movie starts off well, we
establish the characters very easily with Jake Gyllenhaal and Rachel
McAdams's generous chemistry, and they both look incredible on the set
together, easily steals the show. 50 cent looked clean and dapper, and
Forest Whitaker delivered great realism, and that's about where it
ends. The Story shows a man who is just loaded with money. He's a mindblowing
43-0 (yea right) and during his after fight press conference, was
interrupted by a would-be trash talking contender...OK sure that's
great, seems solid so far, but from there the story goes a bit out of
control. 50 cent working purely in his own interest, tries working a
$30 million dollar deal using Gyllenhaal, and his wife being the brains
behind the duo, quickly shoots it down believing that any more fights
would permanently injure her husband and turn him into a walking
tomato. VERY conveniently and shortly thereafter, Rachel McAdams is
shot and killed by "accident" after a brawl broke out between the trash
talking contender and Gyllenhaal, and quickly loses everything, and I
mean everything. Somehow he goes from millionaire, to broke, to losing
his kids and his home, car, and I guess non-existent savings, there
isn't even anything in the plot about how maybe the wife hid money or
someone stole the money from him, nope he just somehow had too many
expenses and simply lost all his money. The story then moves to how he
has to completely change who he is to satisfy his new boxing coach, his
overbearing court decisions to take away his kid, and somehow make back
the money he seemed to lose in an instant. Despite all that struggle,
there is very little connection with any of the other characters after
McAdams leaves the scene, and very little attachment to any of the very
typical plot development other than he comes back and wins with
seemingly very little struggle. The movie being called "southpaw" by
the way is not about the fighter actually being a southpaw at all,
neither was the contender, but conveniently called that because of an
Eminem single and for magically landing an uppercut in the final round
of the final fight by switching stances (which we didn't see) and
that's it. Despite great performances, much of the story just left me
wondering "why do I care about any of this" for a big chunk of the
movie. You can also feel that there are parts to the story that are suppose to
make us feel bad or force us to feel connected to the characters that
just don't work or don't seem to fit. Losing his child is very
difficult, but her behavior and reactions though seemingly honest and
real, don't seem to make much sense and seem a bit unrealistic, she
seemed very close with her dad and ended up wishing he was dead were
quite the extremes. The same can be said for the character Hoppy, who
spent maybe 3 minutes of on screen time with Gyllenhaal and ended up
losing his life in a domestic violence dispute with his family. There
is a very real performance by Forest Whitaker about the situation, but
why is it important to us as the audience? They didn't even touch on
the character that much and we are suppose to have an emotional
reaction? That in a nutshell is how the entire movie felt after the
first 20 minutes. I did watch the film through to the end, so for that I give it a 5 for
keeping me interested at least through the whole show. The villain was
too thuggish to be taken seriously, his reasons for losing all of his
money didn't seem realistic, and much of how the story developed did so
in a way that didn't seem to be very logical in real life, and VERY far
from the well thought out movie that Rocky was.
