2
The Expendables trilogy now has its Godfather III

First off, nobody expects a film like The Expendables to be amazing.
Even the cast and writers are aware of it, which is why the first two
movies in the series succeeded. They were merely an excuse for our
favourite childhood action stars to blast people's brains apart and
utter cringe-worthy one-liners, and sold themselves as such, and that's
why the series worked in the first place. The series was pure trash and
it embraced it, and so did we. I mean, how can anyone expect a film
with a scene where Chuck Norris makes a Chuck Norris joke to be
anything deep? If we want Shakespeare, we'll watch Shakespeare, simple
as that. And so it leads you to wonder exactly how on earth The
Expendables 3 ended up the way it did. The first red flags were raised
when it was announced earlier this year that the film would be rated
PG-13, and that was just the startFirst off, the plot is pretty much the same as Expendables II, but with
less action and more boring revenge BS. Then there's the moment where
Sly Stallone (let's just say it's easier to remember the stars by their
real names rather than their character names) disavows the team and
brings in all these boring new people. The Spider-Man wannabe who can
climb elevators- so what? The chick. There's no other reason for her to
be in the film other than to be the chick. I can't remember any of the
others right now because they're THAT forgettable. From there on,
there's pretty much no reason for Stallone to continue with the
mission. Other than revenge, etc. But of course, naturally, he
continues, gets himself in trouble with his own stupid actions, blah,
blubbety blip, and we get one of the most boring action sequences in
history this side of Man of Steel, complete with dreadful editing and
camera too close to the actionThere's also the fact that the film is PG-13, and it shows- the
violence is not only toned down, but it also constrains the plot from
being any more interesting in any way. We get boring gunfight after
boring gunfight with some hand to hand here and there. Speaking of
which, there's very little action here- there's a grand total of 4
action scenes in the film and the only one of which is interesting,
being the end one- but even then, it's not as interesting as it should
be. When Stallone and Gibson finally square off, the fight lasts for
like a minute and then boom. Over.The one saving grace of the film is the addition of Snipes, Banderas,
and Gibson. There's not much for them to work with in the first place,
but they make the most of what they're given to work with, and they
really do try. Banderas is an annoying loudmouth, but at least his
endless talking in his scenes do liven up the pace. Snipes is always a
pleasure to watch and his fight scenes are the best thing about the
film, but he's under-used. Gibson always has even one of my favourite
actors and his portrayal of a villain here is brilliant. I've always
thought he's been the perfect guy to play a villain, and despite the
cringe worthy dialogues he's given here he does what he can to brighten
the atmosphere with his portrayalOtherwise there's really no reason to see this film. It's pretty much
The Godfather 3 of the franchise- the sequel that was not needed and
did nothing to advance any character or plot, was just recycled and had
no reason to exist. And furthermore there's an Expendables 4 in
production. This is despite the fact that the film leaked onto the web
early two weeks before its release. To me, whoever did that must have
realized just how awful the film is and leaked it as a warning, that or
Lionsgate is doing this for more PR and is disguising it as an
accidental leak just to cause more publicity. Either way, avoid this
one like the plague.
