1
...

It's over. I figured out the cause of my headaches, my blackouts. I
know why those pictures keep appearing on my wall. They were all named
Isabella, Kristen or Stephanie. I've been...what have I become? There's
a woman lying at my feet, bleeding her last pint of blood through a
vicious slash in her throat. My hands are sticky and wet in a substance
I can all too readily identify. Yet, all I feel is hollow. Empty. Food
has no taste. Hope has become meaningless. Joy is but a distant memory
that brings no comfort.As such, I did what any person would do when they realize that they're
sick: I called for help. They're coming for me now. I can hear their
sirens in the distance, wailing their morose call. Perhaps they will
kill me. One can only hope. As I sit here at Bella's computer waiting
for the Reaper to claim me, I feel it is only appropriate to finish
what I have started: I will review the final movie of this franchise
before I am laid to rest.Words cannot express the sheer disappointment that accompanies this
"film". Oh, I knew how it would end going in. I've watched and read
reviews from sources I trust. There have been countless parodies. Even
with no investment whatsoever, the ending to this wretched movie is a
slap in the face. It broke something inside of me that I never knew was
there until it pleaded for aid with its final bit of strength. Literally nothing happens. The entire series was building up to this.
This...unholy abomination sports a runtime of 115 minutes, most of
which is spent building up some would-be tension for the central
conflict. There will be a showdown between Martin Sheen with his band
of LGBT vampires and the Cullens who amass a vampire version of the
X-Men. It sounds a lot more interesting than it actually is.So, this is it. This is what four previous movies built up to. What
happens here will permanently alter these characters for better or for
worse. Some of them may even die here. And for a few minutes, they do.
All retarded Hell breaks loose in a poorly shot fight sequence. You all
know what happens next. It was just a vision for for the sake of Martin
Sheen. None of it actually happened. They decide to part ways amicably,
which makes every choice, every action and every scene up to here
entirely pointless. And that's when I realized that it's all pointless, isn't it? Whether
you live or die, whether you're good or bad, whether you watch a movie
or don't. None of it matters. We are but specks of cosmic dust briefly
granted sentience in a universe so vast that our entire planet could
fall into the sun and nobody would notice or care. Nobody hears you cry
out in pain in the abyss. They're at the gates now, reader. This is
where I leave you. Do not repeat my mistake. Do not watch this movie. PS - This is what can be loosely called satire. Don't call the cops.
