8
Fast, scary and much better than expected!

I was dubious! The rating, the early reviews, my love of gory George
Romero movies had all led me to deciding not to see this. But, my wife
wanted to go... Well, two breathless hours later I turned to her, big
grin on my face and had to state "That was awesome!" Yes, I can see why
people don't like it. It is very different to the traditional zombie
movie, and very different to the book. But you know what, who cares -
it's not a traditional zombie movie, or the book - it's different. So
suck it it up whiners and enjoy this for what it is! (And I'm a huge
fan of all Max Brooks zombie books.) The movie begins with a short
intro to the main character and his family (it was enough, it told me
all I needed to know) before launching into a fantastic, break neck
sequence that establishes the pace for most of the rest of the movie.
It's violent, visceral and shocking without any reliance in gore. The
tension is racked up (especially in the escape from the apartment block
sequence) with a series of spectacular set pieces (the walls of
Jerusalem scene is brilliant) and things get better and bigger until
the film slows the pace for the final reel with a slow burning, smaller
scale sequence set in a WHO research lab in the UK. It's an unusual
choice to end a movie with the smallest set piece, but it worked well
for me as it was in line with Gerry's quest and the (stated in the
movie) fact that the answer is often so small it gets overlooked. The
gravity of the decisions Gerry has to make here are greater than any
previously in the movie (where mostly he just has to run like hell!)
and it's that that makes this such a powerful set piece to end the
movie. I learnt several things from this movie 1) to let go of my
preconceptions about what a zombie film should be, 2) that a low rating
doesn't mean its for kids - I have two sons and despite the lack of
gore I certainly wouldn't let then see this. Its very intense and that
(not the gore) is what would scare them. 3) to go with the flow - I did
here and was swept along for a rapid fire 2 hour thrill ride that was a
hell of a lot of fun. I for one will be getting this on blu ray and
I'll be first in line for any sequel. But I will admit, an undated
version would be very welcome!
