9
Park Chan-wook crafts another masterpiece!

When going into a movie by one of your favorite directors, it is easy
to set high expectations. Rarely does the film fully meet those
expectations, but when it does it is something special. Such is the
case with Park Chan-wook's The Handmaiden (Mademoiselle). He has
crafted an intricately woven tale of love and betrayal that highlights
everything he can do so well from heightened sexual tension to gorgeous
imagery. The film, which is an adaptation of the novel The Fingersmith, revolves
around a woman who is hired as a handmaiden to a Japanese heiress. This
is the very basic summary to a film that has a lot of depth underneath
the surface and requires the audience's attention throughout the film.
And as the plot goes on we discover the newly hired handmaiden may have
some ulterior motives along with many of the other characters. Nothing
is revealed too quickly and the film is split into a three-part
structure that slowly pieces things together through flashbacks. It
also uses a storytelling device that is typically owned by Tarantino
where the same scene is shown from multiple perspectives and each adds
a new layer to the story. All of these devices are used to full effect
and create surprising twists on par with Park Chan-wook's Oldboy.What is immediately apparent from the start of the film is how well
Park Chan-wook's aesthetic fits into the time period. His eye for
gorgeous shots and camera angles makes the house in the film look like
a work of art. The grounds around the house are also highlighted so
well. Wide shots and lingering camera movements let you appreciate
every little detail on screen and marvel at the beauty of it all. The score also fits in perfectly with the time period. It is never
bombastic and always subtle, and perfectly captures the mood and
feeling of each scene. Whether an intimate moment between the two women
or a heated exchange between characters it's hard to realize how great
the score is because of how organic it feels. Framing is also a very important addition to the story. Through the use
of mirrors and reflections, Park Chan-wook suggests the double-sided
nature of the characters. Also, he often obstructs part of the frame
with an object and hides characters behind walls or glass to suggest we
may not really see everything that is going on before us. This aspect
of the film in particular I feel will only get better with subsequent
viewing when you can understand all of characters motivations and
desires. One thing that Park Chan-wook did so well with Stoker was creating a
palpable feeling of sexual tension without using nudity or anything
overtly sexual. In this film he succeeds with that throughout the
entire film. Every look and every glance the two woman share conveys a
longing and desire that permeates the whole film. In this film however,
he continues that passion past suggestion into full on sex. There are
multiple scenes with extended nudity but they are all filmed so
artfully and sympathetically it always feels warranted. The scenes
never feel awkward or exploitative and always are tasteful and almost
poetic. Somehow despite what I was watching I still found myself
admiring the camera-work and beautiful cinematography. One thing that surprised me in the film and I have not seen in Park
Chan-wook's other work is the humor. It was never slapstick and usually
more circumstantial, but the whole audience laughed out loud on
numerous occasions. He showed a surprisingly great understanding of
timing and every joke landed. One scene in particular dealt with
suicide and could have come across as insensitive or callous. Due to
the perfect timing, it was hilarious and even further developed the
relationship between the characters. During the last act of the film, it does get unusually violent. There
is a torture scene that seems out of place with the rest of the film.
Though effective in its own right and thoroughly thrilling, it didn't
sit right with me due to how subtle the rest of the film had been. This is a film that really stays with you and will take multiple
viewing to really appreciate the complex story. The first film I have
seen in a long time where I continued to think about it throughout the
day and had multiple conversations about all aspects of the film. With
The Handmaiden, Park Chan-wook has crafted a film that fully displays
the craft and technical prowess he can show and it includes a story
that that only gets better the more you think about it.The Handmaiden (2016) Directed by: Park Chan-wook Screenplay by:
Seo-Kyung Chung, Park Chan-wook Starring: Jung-woo Ha, Min-hee Kim,
Jin-woong Jo, Tae Ri Kim Run Time: 2 hour 25 minutes
