8
A couple in the woods !!!

'Honeymoon' really reminded me of a few Roman Polanski films like
'Repulsion' and 'Rosemary's Baby'. 'Honeymoon' like most well made and
thematically deep psychological horror films,tries to address real-
life issues by using generic tropes and distinctive cinematic horror
elements. In this case, very believable and tangible marital issues and
concerns are addressed by director Leigh Janiak and her co-writer Phil
Graziadei.One of the very important reasons why 'Honeymoon' works is because of
the way Janiak takes her time to set up and convey the sweet and tender
love between Bea and Paul. She uses a beautiful opening credits
sequence of Bea and Paul giving talking head style interviews for their
wedding video interspersed with shots of the road during their drive to
the honeymoon spot symbolising the journey they have made together in
life. There is an extended unbroken long take inside the cottage where
Bea introduces the different rooms to Paul and it's a beautiful and
sweet sequence again underlying the sweet nature of their relationship.
It's only because we believe the love between them, that we feel uneasy
when things start falling apart. There is a connection between
'Honeymoon' and Polanski's 'Repulsion' in the way that both Bea and
Paul start becoming more and more paranoid upon realising that they
might not be completely ready for every concern and expectation that
comes along with marital life which is similar to Carole's paranoia in
'Repulsion' which was borne out of her inability to cope with
adulthood, sexuality and the male gaze because she was still a young
child at heart and the mental disintegration takes place in somewhat of
a similar fashion in both these films. The paranoia forces both Bea and
Paul to change and neither of them like the changed new individuals
that the other becomes on this post-marriage honeymoon trip. But
'Honeymoon' also shares a connection with Andrzej Żuławski's
'Possession' in the way it externalises marital problems in very
visceral and visually disturbing ways.We have two Brits - a Scottish woman(Rose Leslie) and an
Englishman(Harry Treadaway) pretending to be an American couple, but
they are really good and made me believe their marriage, their love,
their mutual concerns and their subsequent paranoia.Leigh Janiak gets good performances out of her actors and also elevates
the film with her intricate visual storytelling choices. The hand held
camera helps to add to the intimacy of the relationship between Bea and
Paul. This is a solid piece of work where the director makes the most
out of limited resources available to her due to the low budget.
