10
Hirani takes innovation and creative thinking to a different level

While entering the theater, I was excited and so were many people in my
vicinity. Being a Rajkumar Hirani flick, one can hardly expect
disappointing but you never really know. After 3 idiots in 2009, it
took Hirani a hiatus of five years to come up with PK. But does this
deliver enough to live up to its promise? Well, I feel proud to say
this, Hirani has not let us down. Aamir Khan this time in PK has left
no stone unturned and has put in his best for his role. From his
physique to his language, the actor is simply brilliant. Indulging
himself in a role of an innocent outsider(the role which suits Aamir
perfectly), he speaks more with his expressions than any of the actors
do with their words. With Aamir on the frontier, it is hardly fair game
for the remnant of the crew to show their finesse. Quite to the
contrary, Anushka plays an adequately important role in doing her best
to ameliorate the humour. Sanjay Dutt who appears in parts is also
fabulous. Now, the screenplay. Magnificent. Every dialogue and the
successive is written, furnished and polished with extreme care and
prowess. Music by Ankit Tiwari does not differ from the director's
previous movies, they are quite decent and go hand in hand with the
plot. I went to the theater excited and came out learning something. PK
is a movie which entertains you every minute with its creativity in
successfully creating an atmosphere of humour and exuberance. PK is out
to provoke but not to shock. The film asks questions via its idiot
savant protagonist, but does not attempt to deliver facile, absolute
answers. And that makes it all the more effective. PK is an adventure
which will make you laugh heartily, make you feel heart rended and make
you learn to let go, simultaneously promulgating a message. PK is
something i would describe, as an emotional roller-coaster. PK is an
experience of a life time.If you have people with orthodox thinking in your proximity or people
who are led to blind beliefs of religious drama or are puritanical, PK
is just the movie for them. For others, this goes without saying, a
must watch.My rating - "An emotional masterpiece" Traditional rating - 9.5/10.
