1
Newer isn't always better : how CGI turns horror into comedy

Let me start off by saying I never and i mean never post reviews but
this movie was so bad I feel like it is my duty as a human being to
warn the world of this abomination. Where to start...OK lets start with the positives. The movie starts off
as a respectable film and what appears to be an interesting concept at
first. The acting is pretty good considering the script they had to
work with. I want to clarify it is not the actors fault for how bad
this movie is.Now for the negatives, the movie starts to fall apart the more you see
Mama and all of her computer generated glory. She looks like a
distorted Sarah Jessica Parker but far less scary than the real SJP.
Its really hard to be scared of something that looks so unreasonably
fake! I mean Disney's the haunted mansion staring Eddie Murphy has
scarier CGI. Saying everything scary happens in the trailer would be
far too kind because it wouldn't mention all the hilariously bad
moments where Mama and her victims just stare at the camera making
goofy Neanderthal faces. The cgi (which i can not stress enough was a
total joke) was not even the worst part. The plot that seemed original
in the beginning turns out to be as generic as possible and one really
lame ass ghost story. I can't decide the worst part of it all, it has
to be either how unlikeable the main protagonist was or the egregiously
bad ending/overall plot. The main protagonist is a "rock star" who is
selfish at first and just an all around douche. She is completely self
absorbed and immature and than just magically out of no where becomes a
mother figure and loves these two girls and they some how love her
after just 3 days. Once again the actors are not to blame, they did
their jobs the best they could given what they had to work with.**Spoiler** Overall summery of Mama's plot:Two little girls are raised by a ghost who...yep you guessed as it is
trying to make up for the child she lost. The girls are found and given
a home and new family by their aunt and uncle. Uncle gets put in a
comma and aunt who isn't quite ready to raise children is left to raise
them and falls in love with them like 3 days later. they are haunted by
what could be the lamest ghost since Bill Cosby as ghost dad. Oh whats
this? Giving mama her real baby back makes her stop haunting us? No
way!!! Mama goes away taking one of the girls but leaving the other for
some reason but not before literally punching a hole in the uncles
heart....but its OK some how hes totally fine. The end
