1
Worst movie ever!

I went to see this movie with my teenagers hoping to have a good laugh.
You had Seth and Zach in it. Boy was I wrong!First the plot: Two new parents who think they are still young and hip,
have a fraternity move in next door. They set some limits, break the
limits, do not call the police and have the Fraternity screw their
lives up, until they come up with a totally illegal way to screw the
fraternity up. Sounds innocent enough right? In between you have sex,
more sex, bad sex, immorality, women portrayed as stupid or
nymphomaniacs, brain-dead kids, stupid police, woman being abused or
coaxed, women being degraded, men being degraded, etc. etc. etc.Huge problem, the writers could not make a single joke that did not
involve sex, porn, nudity or some variation or combination of these
two, basically brain dead. The characters are not real, when will
writers realize we know when a character is just doing things because
there is no way anybody in real life would do the same thing. It
insults your brain.One more problem, if you respect women, love your children and believe
that violence and sexism should not be promoted in movies, this is not
for you. A penis around someone's neck is NOT comedy, its gross.Finally, this film confirms that some actors will do anything for
money. Zach and Seth were on a great path of making great movies, it
seems they either smoked or drank their last paycheck and needed some
more money and did this. This will definitely stir me away from future
films they make.I miss this type of comedies that actually relied on good writing and
stories. Now it's all shock therapy, even my oldest son thought it was
too much and felt robbed of time and money. We are not too religious or
prudes but this was in another dimension,DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY IF YOU HAVE SOME MORALITY IN YOU, YOU WILL FEEL
FILTHY AFTER WATCHING THE MOVIE.I am sure a lot of misguided teenagers without a moral ground will find
it hilarious and that is to me the biggest problem, if Hollywood made
it, it's because there is an audience, let's hope it's small.
