2
Where no idiot has gone before.....apart from in Prometheus of course!

So once again, after the debacle of Prometheus, Ridley Scott has proved
himself simultaneously a master of visuals and yet utterly incompetent
when it comes to creating a believable Alien story.The single biggest problem I had with Prometheus was the collection of
imbeciles and weirdos that made up the crew, and one might have hoped
that Mr Scott would have realised that himself and made amends this
time round. Errr.... no, sadly not. Once again we're treated to a crew
of simpletons who make THE MOST pathetic and unbelievable decisions
possible. Are we really supposed to believe that a crew would just
ditch it's primary mission (that we're told had been over 10 years in
the planning to ensure their destination was safe, etc) just because
they happened to stumble on a new planet purely by chance? Just plain
ludicrous. And that's just the start. A few more examples :- Assuming we suspend our disbelief and accept the whole "let's risk
all the colonists and everything we have planned for decades for to
land on this new unknown planet instead" premise, why do these alleged
scientists once again TOTALLY disregard the need for any protective
clothing? So no breathing equipment, nothing at all to protect them
from any alien pathogens. Good thinking!- Faced with a choice of sending either an android, or pretty much the
entire human crew with no protective gear, to investigate an alien
world, who should go? Yeah that's right, send all the unprotected
humans!- Choice of landing right near the source of the unknown signal, or
land several miles away and in a foot of water despite there being
solid and flat ground a few feet away? Yep, it's wet feet and a huge
hike all round folks!- Little alien pods on this alien world puffing their alien spores into
the air? Sure, just get your nose in there and have a good sniff. I'm
sure it'll be fine!- Crewmen get infected by said spores? Don't worry about any quarantine
procedures, just carry them back to the ship while getting covered in
their vomited-up blood.- Alien organism just burst out of said infected crewman? Just open up
the locked door and try to shoot it, but be careful you don't miss at
point blank range and then slip up on the blood.... twice. (When that
happened, people actually laughed in the cinema. I was half expecting a
comedy sound effect the second time!)- Tens of thousands of dead bodies, and an enormous dead city solely
inhabited by David the android from the Prometheus mission, that the
planetary scan managed to NOT pick up from orbit when determining the
planet to be "safe"? No need to ask David what happened, just accept
that it's all fine.- Dark basements to go into all on your own? Do it! Nothing bad will
happen.- Huge alien eggs opening in front of you? Just have a good look
inside. What could possibly go wrong?!The list of stupid decisions just goes on and on AND ON!While visually the film is generally excellent, the all-CGI-Alien was a
huge let-down. Personally I found it considerably less convincing than
the practical effects used in Alien and Aliens, which is unforgivable
considering the creature is what these films are all about!Additionally the crew, apart from being imbeciles (as is usual under Mr
Scott's direction these days), are also completely forgettable. I saw
this movie last night and I can't remember a single character's name
today. The one exception is David/Walter, and once again Fassbender
does a great job. (Perhaps that's why there's two of them - to make up
for a lack of any other decent characters).The other problem narrative-wise is that both Prometheus and Covenant
have actually served to make the Alien universe much SMALLER in my
opinion. In the original Alien and Aliens, the creature was just an
unknown organism from the far reaches of the universe, and all the more
scary because of it. (The same went for the Space Jockey for that
matter). But these new movies have tried to tie it all back to humanity
in some way - i.e. the Engineers (who are also the Space Jockeys)
created both humanity and the black oil virus, and then the Xenomorph
was apparently created by David (who was in turn created by man)
somehow doing some genetic tinkering with the black oil and human DNA,
while living in a cave and playing with his flute. Far from expanding
the Alien universe, both these prequels have actually shrunk it by
making man the centre of everything, while at the same time managing to
sanitise and neuter one of the greatest movie creatures of all time. So
what Ridley Scott is saying is that the entire Alien series and the
iconic Xenomorph itself was just created by a deranged android with
God/daddy issues. How very pathetic and disappointing. I personally
hate it when movies try to explain everything to the millionth degree
because it invariably ends up as a massive anticlimax. What was wrong
with the Xenomorph just being some hideous unknown life-form from the
far reaches of space???I could go on and on, but there's a word limit here.Lastly, the end is just pretty feeble and anticlimactic. The CG- Alien
just kind of gets killed and that's it. And the *ahem* "twist" with
David/Walter could be seen from a mile away, although David wouldn't
have had anywhere near enough time to cut his own arm off and change
his clothes and hairstyle.Please PLEASE Mr Scott, stand aside and let Neill Blomkamp have his
shot at an Aliens sequel.A generous 2 Stars. One for the visuals that are once again gorgeous,
and one for a great effort from Fassbender.
