4
Lacking in Motivation

Elysium is the follow up, much anticipated by many, to the critically
acclaimed District 9 from South African-Canadian director and writer
Neill Blomkamp.In the middle of the 21st Century, with the world now grossly
over-populated and law and order seemingly at breaking point, the super
wealthy have decamped to a satellite space station highly visible from
earth, a utopian society free of poverty, illness and other such
mundane woes.Meanwhile, the vast majority of earth's population lives in squalid,
cramped slums seemingly based on the Favelas of Rio de Janeiro.
Needless to say, the rich are all too keen to protect their enclave and
any unauthorised vessels arriving from earth are duly dispatched by
being blasted away.Jodie Foster stars as Elysium's ambitious and sociopathic Defence
Secretary, as ruthless at advancing her own interests as she is at
ensuring the purity of the over-sized Ferris wheel whose security is in
her charge; Matt Damon is the working class drone desperately trying to
access the other world for the treatment to cure his radiation sickness
from which he will die in 5 days.There was clearly an interesting concept waiting to burst out here, an
opportunity to explore themes of wealth, inequality, social status,
health care and immigration, but sadly it failed on almost every level
to build interest or have anything relevant to say.First, we saw so little of the societal structure or way of life on
Elysium itself. Apart from Jodie Foster and a few other high ranking
officials, the film showed us nothing of how this satellite was run. It
looked as if everyone lived in a McMansion style-home – the type you
find next to golf courses in Florida or on the Sunshine Coast. It all
looked terribly sterile, reminiscent of the contrived town Jim Carrey
inhabited in The Truman Show. We were not privy as to who cut the
lawns, did the plumbing or washed the dishes. Superficially, the lives
of these pampered people seemed hollow and totally unfulfilled – where
were the galleries, the museums, the theatres or even a casino for
those that might like that sort of thing? Frankly, the impoverished
life on earth which was shown with enforced work in a fascistic
environment seemed far more fulfilling.Further, Matt Damon's motives for getting on Elysium were totally
selfish. All he wanted was to save his own skin. Granted, there was
then concocted an unconvincing love interest and a wish to save his
childhood sweetheart's little girl but this too was just parochial.
Where was the burning anger borne from social injustice, the wish to
better the lot of all humankind, the working class warrior on a
mission? And when the film's final denouement came it was head in a
sick-bag time.The script and dialogue were banal, as was Jodie Foster's delivery.
Matt Damon worked harder to bring some interest to his character but he
was up against it – but at least he tried.The CGI was good – but that's pretty much a given in any well-funded
Hollywood film these days. Close up camera work was appalling, non-stop
wobble vision which made action sequences confusing. This camera style
is so unnecessary and it really is beyond comprehension as to why
film-makers persist in its use; in small doses it can be effective but
when near constant it produces a feeling of nausea.It is so disappointing to be relentlessly negative about a film but
when they are as lacking as this one, the positives can be hard to
find.
