3
Worst Peter Pan adaptation EVER.

Now I can see the enjoyment of this film as family entertainment, its
probably great for kids around the age of 3-4, as it has scenes with
nice flashy lights and lots of colors. However as a movie, and from an
entertainment perspective is utter crap. Excuse my French.I do not know what is worse; the horrid choice of music, the terrible
dialog, almost plastic looking CGI or perhaps the terrible choice of
actors, and their performances. The only almost descent acting that
managed to get at least some life into its character was performed by
Hugh Jackman, for his character Blackbeard... but even then they had to
ruin it, by making half of his armor a dress, (He has a BOW on his ASS
for Gods sake!!) and then introducing him with song. I can get it if
Disney does it, but at least they do the stuff with style. In this
situation they just ruined a perfectly good Nirvana song. And how about the fact that Peter is actually non-essential to the
entire plot of the movie? He does literally nothing to stop Blackbeard,
the fairies (or the little balls of light) do all the heavy lifting
while he does "fancy" arm movements to show them what general direction
to go. If he has any purpose to the storyline it is perhaps only acting
as a delivery boy, giving Blackbeard the pan (key) so that he can
access the fairies secret kingdom. I had such high expectations of this movie, the trailer looked sooo
exciting! But it only showed the moments in the movie that looked cool,
cut the dialog so that it actually sounded reasonable and had no shitty
singing scenes. I was warned not to watch this movie by a friend, still
I did it. Now I warn you; DO NOT WATCH THIS. If you have ever seen
either Hook or Disney's version of the story, stay as far away from
this garbage as you possibly can! I might recommend for you to check
out Finding Neverland instead, its leaps and bounds better than this;
with better acting and a more interesting story. Even the mini
TV-series Neverland is better than this, if you guys want the
pre-Disney story. But do not watch this. It's bad, and should be
ashamed of itself.
