9
A 60's era sci-fi fairy-tale made for today's society

Set during the 1960's space race in Baltimore, the story is a beautiful
sci-fi fairy tale that explores the unexpected love between the mute
cleaning lady Eliza (Sally Hawkins) and the mysterious amphibious
creature (Doug Jones) trapped at the government facility she works at.
When Eliza escapes with the creature thanks to the help from a gallery
of colourful characters, we see the bond between woman and creature
grow from mutual friends to lovers. And if that sounds like it wouldn't
work on film, Guilllermo Del Torro can sell it and make it work. While the story of a mute women falling in love with the Creature from
the Black Lagoon sounds simple, Shape of Water is anything but which
helps it to speak relevance to today's Trump-age judgmental society.
Each character is so wonderfully defined and explored through arcs that
relate to back Del Torro's classic narratives about the underdog,
persecuted and the silenced. We root for Eliza and the creature's
relationship because they both know the feeling of people not
understanding who they are. With her voice literally being robbed as an
infant, Eliza lives a life of silence and always listening but wants
someone who truly looks past her disability. Her routinely morning
masturbation tells how she how wishes to be loved both physically and
emotionally. Only called "the Asset", the creature is an anomaly of
nature that also wishes for comfort especially since he was taken away
from his native home in the Amazon and forced to be a prisoner and
experiment for the US government. Eliza's best friend Zelda (Octavia
Spencer) lives in a strained relationship with a husband who ignores
her at home. This leaves her to talk to about her marital problems to
her mute friend who automatically listens. Eliza's neighbour and
father-figure Giles (Richard Jenkins) is a failing advertisement artist
who feels out of place in the world because of his age and
homosexuality. The scientist/Russian spy Dimitri (Michael Stuhlberg)
feels conflicted between his home country and the preservation of the
Asset when both the Americans and Russians seek its death to each
further their agenda in the Space Race. Even the villain Strickland
(Michael Shannon) has his own ark. He constantly sees whether they are
women, lower class, African American or non-human creatures are beneath
him and wishes to be part of what he perceives to be the future of a
better America but fears being left behind in the past. These
characters struggle with communication in different ways from living in
silence, hiding their true selves from a judgmental world, not having
their ideas understood or preferring to have others be silent. As expected with Del Torro, his visually stunning colour palette is
ever present with each shot of the film. From the wardrobe, the look of
the government facility, the vehicle to even the food, green dominates
the film reflecting off of cool, organic algae and water. With the
cinematographer Paul D. Austerberry, he creates long panning shots that
move so beautiful and organic which leads to an amazing dance sequence
that would put La La Land to shame. Vanessa Taylor whom has wrote a few
episodes of Game of Thrones, has written some of the best work I have
seen Del Torro direct. Sally Hawkins is the true standout of this show. While not having to
use dialogue (minus that one amazing dance sequence I mentioned), she
relies on so much sincere and emotional expressions to really show how
her character thinks and reacts. I will say it will be criminal if she
doesn't get nominated for best actress next year. This being his 6th
film working with Del Toro, Doug Jones as the Asset brings mime-like
hand gestures and human-like curiosity and soul to make the this
character feel believable and intelligent. Just like in Hidden Figures
this year, Octavia Spencer is just a breath of fresh air to watch and
ads so much fun to the scenes. Richard Jenkins nearly steals the show
with his dry witted and charming performance as his character Giles.
While some may say Michael Shannon is getting type-cast as villains,
his performance is a reminder why he is so amazing at it. Guillermo Del Torro I have always loved to watch whether his films are
these prestigious art pieces or just fun blockbusters. But Shape of
Waters feels like new ground that he has tapped into. At the Q & A at
TIFF, the reason for him creating this story was a response to how
America's persecution of minorities had risen since the Trump's
presidential campaign. This is the most relevant film Del Toro has made
and is his best masterpiece since Pan's Labyrinth.
