7
For the old and the old at heart

For the old and the old at heart...and that's a good description of
me...and why I liked this movie.First off, you've got 4 wonderful actors in the lead roles: Michael
Douglas is terrific as an oldster who is about to marry a much younger
woman...so he can keep his young image. Robert De Niro has, perhaps,
the best role here as an old man whose wife has died and whose soul has
died; Vegas gets him out of his frump. Morgan Freeman...what can one
say about him; is there anything he can't do. Kevin Kline is a favorite
of mine, but somehow he just didn't seem old enough here...although he
plays his role well.Then, you've got a fine supporting cast: Mary Steenburgen is swell as
the woman who brings De Niro back to life and tempts Douglas...bringing
up to date the old rivalry of two friends. Jerry Ferrara is pretty good
as a young swinging single who isn't any too clever...but adds a lot to
the story. Romany Malco's role here doesn't get a lot of screen time,
but he is rather engaging. Why did Michael Ealy take such a small role
as Freeman's son; he's capable of much more! And then you've got a
pretty decent story: Four old friends (and I do mean old) who have
known each other from their teens to their 60s head to Vegas to
celebrate one of their upcoming marriages. Douglas is trying to
recapture youth. Kline thinks he is ready for marital infidelity (with
his wife's permission). De Niro has lost his zest for life and holds a
grudge against Douglas. Freeman isn't quite ready to be truly
old...even though he son treats him as if he should be in a nursing
home. Will Douglas marry the young thing, or will true love be
discovered? The first third of the movie was funny and interesting. The
last third gets down to the drama that makes the film meaningful. The
middle third gets a little old (so to speak) as one tires of the
continual stereotypical jokes about old people. But, sitting in the
theater, the audience was clearly enjoying this film with plenty of
laughs-out-loud.There are life lessons to be learned here, and this is a film worth
seeing.Side note: I don't find Vegas -- as portrayed here -- as someplace I'd
like to visit. It just seemed decadent and not-real. Made me wish there
were some references to Dino and the Rat Pack! But then again, I'm old!
