7
No Easy Decade

Greetings again from the darkness. Kathryn Bigelow entered the realm of
elite directors when her war thriller The Hurt Locker exploded onto the
Oscar scene a few years ago. Once again she proves why the critics
adore her, and the movie going masses stay away. She is an expert
filmmaker, a brilliant technician, though not much into the whole
entertainment scene.We always try to label films and this one doesn't quite fit as thriller
or action, or even war, genre. It's really a tense, procedural drama
focusing on the behind-the-scenes CIA hunt for Osama bin Laden. In
fact, it's mostly the story of one obsessed CIA agent's research and
un-wavering pursuit of the one most responsible for the tragic events
of 9-11-01 (as well as many others).The film started out as a story of the nearly decade long pursuit and
the failure to find him. Everything, including the movie, changed on
May 2, 2011 when Navy SEAL Team Six pulled off the daring and historic
mission to kill bin Laden. The book "No Easy Day" by Mark Owen
(pseudonym for real life SEAL Matt Bissonnette) was released and many
of the details became public. Bigelow and her writer Mark Boal (former
journalist) went even deeper into research mode and now the film has
instigated Congressional hearings in regards to some of the scenes.Bigelow presents this as old school, hard core males vs the
intellectual, instinctive and brazen Maya, played by Jessica Chastain.
In the book, she is referred to as "Jen", but her name matters not.
What's important is her laser-like focus for almost 10 years, despite
the numerous attempts by her superiors to ignore her theories.Much of the film deals with the group meetings and presentations to CIA
mid-managers, who either don't trust her or refuse to put their own
careers on the line. Maya remains relentless. She finally gets a
audience with CIA Director Leon Panetta (played by James Gandolfini)
and introduces herself as "the M*****F****R who found this place, sir".
This comes across as confident, not disrespectful.Bigelow and Boal refuse the temptation of providing any real backstory
or personal life on these characters. We do learn that Maya was
recruited right out of high school, so we can assume she wasn't a
typical 18 year old. The only thought of a romantic interlude is
quickly shot down by Maya proclaiming (in so many words), she's not
that kind of girl.Most of the men in the film are presented as near Neanderthals. Jason
Clarke is the old school field agent who has mastered the use of
torture, water-boarding and humiliation to gain information from
detainees. The "60 Minutes" clip of Obama saying that America will no
longer utilize torture is one of the few tips to national politics that
the film offers up. The only politics are those played by station chief
Kyle Chandler, who is protective of his job, and Mark Strong, who seems
relatively helpless without the support of his superiors. All this
while Maya keeps pushing and pounding for action.The Langley vs Field work provides a distinctive line in the sand
between the two worlds, and emphasizes just how easy it is to make a
mistake in judgment. What if we had been wrong on the location of bin
Laden? What if the "fortress" had belonged to a drug dealer instead and
the SEAL team had invaded a private home within the boundaries of
supposed ally Pakistan? Jessica Chastain is believable and tough in her
role, and Jason Clarke dominates the screen in his early scenes. Other
fine support work comes courtesy of Edgar Ramirez, Mark Duplass, Harold
Perrineau, and Jennifer Ehle. When we finally get to the strategy
session for the mission, we meet SEAL's played by Chris Pratt and Joel
Edgerton. The 25 minutes or so dedicated to the helicopter mission are
filmed as if we are wearing the same night-vision goggles worn by the
brave souls storming the castle. It's a very impressive sequence.If you enjoy the details of a procedural drama, then you will find much
to like here ... knowing the ultimate outcome doesn't affect the
suspense one bit. However, if you seek an entertaining respite from
your daily grind, this one will offer no assistance ... despite another
excellent and minimalistic mood score from Alexadre Desplat.
