9
The Sequel to Those Unusual Marvel Superhero in the Galaxy

This movie was a very fun superhero film. It did not provide us with
very heavy storyline, the premise was quite simple and best of it all,
it was having lots and lots of funny moments. My wife and I truly
enjoyed this movie as we had laughs all over the movie and there were
even some emotional moments as well which was very lovely to see at the
end (and made my wife very emotional). I love the chemistry among the
Guardians, and I loved Baby Groot's very cute and adorable behavior. I
also loved the opening scene which I think was very cool.In addition to the good chemistry among the stars, I also felt that
Mantis' character was fun to see, especially whenever she was
interacting with Drax. In this sequel, it was also surprising to see
Drax' very funny characterization and his comments. Both Yondu and
Nebula also had larger important role in this movie compared to Volume
1. There was even a surprise new character played by Sylvester Stallone
whom I understand would be having larger role in future Marvel movies.Apart from those fun interactions and the nice light story, the movie
itself was not the type of full of action scenes. Mostly it was done in
the early stage, middle part and the ending part. The sound effects
were good, the effects involving Baby Groot and Rocket were awesome,
but I felt the CGI effects were not that nice, especially during the
scenes in the Ego planet where it really looked computerized. However,
it was not really a bothering scene. One thing that was quite curious
for me is the trailer to this movie was already showing Kurt Russel
portraying Peter's father, which I thought would be best kept hidden to
avoid spoiler. But then as we continued watching it, I realized that it
was more like a part that was supposed to intrigue us.I personally felt that this movie was better than Volume 1, in term of
the story and characterizations. And for those of you who knew that
Marvel's movies would have some end credit scenes, better wait till the
very end, since this film had got not 1, not 2 not even 3, but 5 post
credit scenes altogether.So if you enjoyed the first volume, you would enjoy this one even
better. I would recommend you to watch the first one before seeing this
one to have a better understanding on the movie. Though I am pretty
sure that most likely you would have seen it. Now if you are a fan of a
much heavier superhero movie, than this one may not suit your thirst,
but I am confident that you would still be entertained watching this
one.
