4
An Early Frontrunner for Most Inconsequential Movie of the Year

It's only the second release week of 2013 and already we have a strong
contender for "most inconsequential film of the year." Shot and edited
without any idea of how to make it exciting, written like what a 12-
year-old might think a tough gangster movie would sound like, and
looking surprisingly modern for a period piece that takes place in 1949
and is "inspired by true events," "Gangster Squad" is a perfect example
of mediocrity hitting the big screen.In fact, the only interesting thing about this movie is how it came to
be released in January and not in September like was originally
planned. As many of you will note, the Aurora shooting spree took
place, and was a tragedy. In "Gangster Squad"'s trailer, the titular
squad shoots up a movie theater. Thinking that keeping that scene in
would be rather tasteless, the studio pulled back the release date and
re-shot portions of the film to have the big shootout take place
somewhere else. They then scheduled a new release date of January 11,
2013, instead of September 7, 2012.Perhaps it's just the cynic in me thinking this, but if the film was
any good, why would it get released in January, which is the dumping
ground for bad films? If the studio had faith that it was great, surely
holding it back another couple of months would have been the right
thing to do. My theory is that they knew this wasn't going to be
anything special, or even good, so it was dumped in January, even
despite its cast of stars and surprisingly large budget of $75 million.The basic idea of "Gangster Squad" is that a group of LAPD Detectives
got together and formed a team whose goal it was to stop the gangsters
who threatened to take control of Los Angeles. The villain is a
ruthless man named Mickey Cohen (Sean Penn), a former boxer who pays
off anyone who gets in the way of his "business dealings," which are
illegal. Nobody can touch him, everyone thinks, but since we know the
film is about the titular squad, we're pretty sure that he can, at the
very least, be upset, if not fully removed from the equation.The gang: John O'Mara (Josh Brolin), a family man and our
protagonist/narrator; Jerry Wooters (Ryan Gosling), a ladies' man and
nothing more; Rocky Washington (Anthony Mackie), someone who really
hates heroin; Max Kennard (Robert Patrick), the fastest draw in the
Wild West -- seriously, he sounds like he's from the 1840s, not the
1940s; Navidad Ramirez (Michael Peña) a rookie cop nobody takes
seriously because he's Mexican; and Conway Keeler (Giovanni Ribisi),
another family man and the one tasked with listening in to a bugged
television set.Does that not seem like some sort of dream cast? Throw in Nick Nolte as
the police chief who orders John to do this and Emma Stone as the love
interest for one or possibly more of the characters, and you're talking
quite a strong group of actors. It's just a shame they had to go and
make this, such a lifeless, bland, uninspired movie. Did we really need
a soft-remake of "The Untouchables"? That's really what "Gangster
Squad" feels like.Much of the problem comes from the director, Ruben Fleischer, whose
previous feature-length work is made up entirely of comedies. He did
"Zombieland," which was a lot of fun, and "30 Minutes or Less," which
was not. He does manage to inject "Gangster Squad" with some genuinely
funny moments -- the best of which involved a knockout blow which
failed in its target; you rarely see that in non-comedies at the cinema
-- but most of the time he feels completely wrong for this material. He
doesn't seem to "get" the feel of this type of movie.There is no depth to any of the characters. The dialogue is so cheesy
and unfitting that it feels like it was written by someone who maybe
watch a gangster film once in high school and is trying to remember
what the characters sounded like, there's more slow motion than in a
Zack Snyder movie, but used without any purpose. Seriously, there's a
shootout late in the movie that is done entirely in slow motion and it
accomplishes nothing -- especially when you know that none of the main
characters will die.Despite the overuse of slow motion, the action scenes are still cut
together in such a way so as to not allow you any idea of who's doing
what to whom at any given moment. There's even a car fight, but since
all of the characters look similar and the cars are the same models,
you never know what's going on. The same is true of the fist fights --
the climax is one, which is to be expected, and is the only decent
action in the entire film -- and many of the shootouts.There's nothing to "Gangster Squad." Under the gangster movie surface,
it's an empty, hollow movie, and there's absolutely no reason to watch
it. You trudge through it, hoping the payoff will be worth the almost
two hours of your life that it takes to finish -- and it feels a lot
longer than that -- and you won't get that. "The Untouchables" exists
so this film doesn't have to. It has an attractive cast and some
touches of humor, but "Gangster Squad" is a cheap knockoff of one of
what used to be one of the most reliable genres around.
