7
A Promising Start That Leads to Run-Of-The-Mill Fare

An all-star cast, comprising Christian Bale, Casey Affleck, Woody
Harrelson, Forest Whitaker, Willem Dafoe, and Zoe Saldana (wow!), is
cast into the cavernous of troubles. Two brothers- one a former solider
who served in Iraq (Rodney, played by Casey Affleck) and the other an
impoverished factory worker (Russell, played by Christian Bale) -
embark on vastly disparate paths. Their relationship has lost its
bygone flare, considering Rodney's extensively damaged psyche and his
desire to stray away from standard work, instead choosing to make money
off of brutal street fighting and gambling. When he asininely involves
himself with ruthless wagering criminals (led by Woody Harrelson), all
circumstances invert and numerous lives are consequently affected. The first half of the film carries an incredibly strong premise and
features a truly gripping narrative that focuses on character
development/characterization, which compellingly leads to the ultimate
predicament. In essence, a major portion of the film's enticement
should be accredited to the exceptionally powerful performances, and
Casey Affleck remarkably fights for that recognition by showcasing his
deteriorating soul. I mention Affleck specifically because he rarely
receives ample praise for his impressive renditions. Furthermore, in
that first half, the pacing is smooth and adequate as you sympathize
with these distressed characters and are stunned by a sudden
unfortunate incident after another, personalities still further
strengthening. The arresting visual look of the film partially produces
that final element of attraction to the end product. As we proceed though and the midpoint sequence comes and goes, the
pacing suddenly decelerates and we encounter additional characters and
arcs that are frankly unnecessary and don't benefit the picture in any
way. Once the credits roll, you don't feel like Forest Whitaker's
character deserved the amount of screen time he ended up with,
portraying an archetypal police officer and barely anything more. We're
met with countless prolonged and dispensable scenes that are more
stereotypical than beneficial to the film's substance and overall plot.
The excitement of the first half, fueled by unpredictability and
conflict, takes a nosedive and the thriller chooses to tediously
capture the lengthy search for the villain alternatively. Finally, the
audience is presented with an anticlimactic conclusion that again feels
far too familiar and unsatisfying despite the enthralling story
beforehand. There's essentially nothing unique in its final act to
induce the amount of memorability that the first half accomplished
since it ends like your typical run-of-the-mill revenge flick. In sum, Scott Cooper effectively conveys the rural and destitute
atmosphere, and the film is genuinely gritty and honest in its
depiction of labor and the unrewarding lives that are led by courageous
soldiers upon returning home. These are the lives of a considerably
high percentage of America's population and the movie's thematic
material speaks volumes on this controversial and profoundly relevant
matter. Out of the Furnace certainly forces its viewers to react in
particularly shocking sequences, eliciting a variety of emotions. Even
though the film's quality noticeably degrades while it advances, this
tale will undoubtedly provoke intrigue and fervor until the screen
fades to black.
