10
"There are still faint glimmers of civilization left in this barbaric slaughterhouse that was once known as humanity... He was one of them. "

Wes Anderson is one of the last directors -auteurs- who's got complete
control on the film set and has the power to make whatever kind of film
he desires. His distinct visual style is apparent since his 1996 debut
Bottle Rcoket. But that was just a start, with every film he made he
was perfecting his technique more and more. This marvelous attention to
detail, the way he composes his shots( tracking shots, the symmetry,
the characters running in slow-motion), chase scenes, love story,
nostalgia, explanatory montages, the colourful set design and the
prevalent theme of every one of his films: family. This all adds up to
the reason why the audience enjoys Anderson's film so much. This all is
brought to perfection in Grandhotel Budapest. Through complex narrative framework, which itself is a mockery of all
these films that are being narrated by someone and is also being an
excuse for not being too realistic, we get to a story of a young lobby
boy named Zero Moustafa and Gustave H. (Ralph Fiennes)the concierge of
the Grandhotel Budapest. Many of the female guests of the hotel mainly
come to enjoy Gustave's company. When one of these ladies passes away,
Gustave grabs Zero and boards a train for her mansion. Soon he's blamed
for her murder and hunted by police led by Edward Norton and a
grim-faced assassin played by Willem Dafoe. There also is a love story
between two young teens - Zero and Agatha (Saoirse Ronan) who has a
birthmark in the shape of Mexico.I frankly don't understand how can this film be successful in the USA.
This film is just so typically European, that I guess some aspects of
the film Americans just aren't familiar with. Some of the humor
reminded of old French, Italian and Czech comedies. Wes Anderson remains to be a stand-out filmmaker who never disappoints
with any of his creations and is a safe bet to rely on his qualities.
You won't want to return to the real world when the credits start to
roll.
