6
Marshall Is Good, But Not As Great As It Could Be

Growing up one of the first influential black figures I learned about
was Supreme Court Judge Thurgood Marshall. While my life didn't veer in
the path he took, it was a chance for me as a young black male to see
the dedication and time he took to his craft and where it could take
you. Almost 2 decades have passed since then, and found myself
surprised to see a film finally based on him and his capabilities.
While the younger me was excited, I found myself wondering how this
film would hold up side by side with other black period films like
itself in recent history.Thurgood (Chadwick Boseman) is working in the NAACP when he is tapped
for a court case of the accusation of a black male rumored to have
raped a woman and thrown her off into the river and left for dead.
While he travels to Connecticut for the trial, he finds himself hard
pressed given he is a out of town lawyer unfamiliar to the client, and
is left to have a inexperienced attorney (Josh Gad) to speak on his
behalf in court. While Thurgood knows most of the material and how to
move in court, he has to show Josh's character the way to observe
things his way.The performances are all relatively solid by no surprise given the
cast. Josh Gad is able to sell the inexperienced character almost
having to be hand held through every decision made in the courtroom.
Also the development of him progressively becoming more confident as
time goes forward. The writing in the courtroom is interesting enough
to keep you invested in knowing what's the truth and the holes in one
plaintiff and defendants stories.Alas, my biggest issue with the film is really the lasting impact.
While it is perfectly watchable in the moment, I felt as if a story
like this should have had more lasting impact than what I saw given
it's a film in a movie theater. It's not as riddled with clichés like
preceding films I've seen in the past, but misses a strong distinctive
voice. For some the issues I had with Hidden Figures, I at least know
who the target audience was for the film and what they wanted to take
from the movie. Marshall doesn't really have that same feeling. The
writing is never bad, but never as sharp as it feels like it should be
until the second half when more gets revealed.Marshall in a nutshell I would say is "almost there" as a movie. Fine
within the moment but leaves a bit desired when the credits rolled. I
wouldn't turn anyone away from seeing this, but may be best suited seen
at home.
