10
A Nutshell Review: Rise of the Guardians

I thought I was probably in a period of time where it would be
difficult to sit back and enjoy what is an animated film aimed squarely
at kids, but I was indeed surprised by how Rise of the Guardians, based
upon The Guardians of Childhood series created by William Joyce,
actually encapsulated all the good stuff, from quality of animation,
voice casting and to characterization that was pretty basic but good
fun. There are many in the same class of late that tried to be too
intellectual, but by keeping things simpler, and never forgetting the
fun element, Rise of the Guardians stand out from the pack, and dare I
say one of the most enjoyable animated movies of the year.This is the story of a new Guardian, Jack Frost (voiced by Chris Pine),
who's about to join the ranks of other luminaries such as Santa Claus
(Alec Baldwin), The Tooth Fairy (Isla Fisher), Easter Bunny (Hugh
Jackman) and very silent Mr Sandman, all of whom thrive in today's
world being the beacon of hope, and everything good, to all the little
children of the world. Chosen by The Man in the Moon, the Guardians and
the children form a very symbiotic relationship, that the chosen few
are there to safeguard the well being of the young, while the latter
fuel the powers of the Guardians through sheer belief in their
existence. Lose one, and you lose the other side quite quickly.The narrative develops at breakneck pace, with introduction to the
Guardians, their abilities, and the threat from arch enemy Pitch Black
(Jude Law) being the boogeyman personified, thriving on fear and
nightmares, and hell bent on snuffing out hope and joy amongst the
children. There's a running theme of being alone, and forgotten, that
pops up every now and then, being the common thread between antagonist,
and the new kid on the block, who is confused as to who he is, and what
his destiny lies ahead. It's somewhat of a zero to hero story, about
finding one's purpose and calling in life, and the making of sacrifices
to get there. Wholesome themes somewhat, for young ones to be able to
sit through and enjoy.We would already be very familiar with the many main characters such as
Santa Claus, Tooth Fairy, Sandman and Easter Bunny, but what Rise of
the Guardians managed to do, is to introduce a little spin of fresh air
into these characters, making them unique yet retaining many of their
iconic traits that make them who they are. This is something I'd really
liked, and had kept me engaged, eagerly waiting for yet another
surprise to pop up now and then. Santa Claus complete with tattoos,
swords and a thick Russian accent? The Tooth Fairy who is part
hummingbird? The Easter Bunny as Australian and with something kept up
the sleeve by the story tellers for the final act, and how about The
Sandman who's a lot more powerful than he looks? And they offer a lot
more in terms of abilities, cause and what they bring to the table,
limited only by the powers of the filmmakers' imagination.It's preaching fun, and never to lose sight of having a little fun in
life, and the movie walked the talk by filling itself with plenty of
side gags, contributed by the many supporting acts each established
Guardian came with, such as Santa's tiny elves, and Tooth Fairy's
lovelorn fairies who swoon at the presence of Jack Frost, for his
perfect pearly whites of course. You'll never look at Santa's lodge and
elves in the same way ever again, nor will you at the Tooth Fairy's and
Easter Bunny's operations. These unique perspectives, seen and told
through the eyes of the protagonist Jack Frost, makes it a journey that
we're emotionally vested into from the start, right until the end, and
to me they did not disappoint a bit.While I hadn't watched this in 3D or IMAX versions, there are enough
set action pieces that tried to exploit these formats, which I suppose
either format would have enveloped the viewer and provided a more vivid
experience, especially with characters being made to pursue and battle
each other in the air, or the numerous extravaganza moments where the
prowess of the characters will wow. The quality of animation is superb
and is the score contributed by Alexandre Desplat, and again, the
simple tale, its treatment and development, are refreshing in not
biting off more than it can chew.Director Peter Ramsey has now launched his career with a very solid
delivery of a film for children, and balanced this appeal for the
adults as well. I'm already all for a sequel should one be created, but
as a standalone, this one is definitely for keeps. Highly recommended!
