1
Yawn of Justice, Yet another Hollywood Hack job

SPOILER ALERT !!! (Funny how there can still be such a thing when the
movie is already spoiled to begin with)This movie was marketed to patrons of all ages but only appeals to ages
12 or younger. My top 8 reasons (in no discernible order) to avoid seeing this movie
and save 2 1/2 hours of your life...Don't do it!1. Amy Adams/ Lois Lane - Wow! what a terribly written part for this
character...Clueless and painfully unaffected by everything going on
around her... I speak for all true Superman fans when I say, Margot
Kidder, eat your heart out baby!2. The opening sequence - Bat boy Bruce Wayne sees his parents killed
at gunpoint....AGAIN! Why must we always have to be spoon-fed the
origin of this character in every damn movie. The psychotic flashbacks
from his past will likely be thrown in later on in the movie and can
allude to the dark knights brooding demeanor just fine, thank you.3, Zack (rhymes with HACK!) Snyder/ The Director - The slow motion
scenes used in this movie are such a desperate contrivance. His
signature trademark only lends to extending the run time of the movie
(ad-nauseum) and slows the pacing down (or lack thereof) to a complete
stand still at times. There's slo mo used during the funeral
scene...'NUFF SAID!4. Confusion - Early scenes will attempt to confuse the viewer
(successfully) in order to tie together several gaping plot holes
(unsuccessfully). The problem here is you can see these outcomes coming
a mile away. The viewer is left feeling patronized and a lack of a
decent script becomes evident, as a result.5. Jeremy Irons/ Alfred the butler - Holy cow man! This guy has been
mailing it in for the better part of 2 decades (since Die Hard with a
Vengeance). It seems the studio financiers felt the need to strengthen
the budget here by slashing the Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine
salaries allowing the 2 characters to morph into one, contemptible
performance by a British actor with some real acting "chops"6. Jesse Eisenberg/ Lex Luthor - Wins the award for all time best
over-acting a comic book villain since Willem Dafoe played the Green
Goblin. After this heinous acting performance by Eisenberg, I am
beginning to think Heath Ledger raised the bar too high for this new
generation of Hollywood soft, pretentious pretty boy actors. 7. THE MAIN PLOT OBLITERATED BY.... Their MOTHERS HAVE THE SAME FIRST
NAME- 2 hours of very thin plot will be totally obliterated by Batman
in a scene so horribly painful. The very premise from the start is
Batman going after Superman. When the audience finally arrives at this
crucial moment, The Batman is going to end The Superman and get what he
so painfully wanted the whole time...AND what happens next?
unfortunately it goes down like this, I kid you not! Superman says
Martha!, his mothers name and Batman says WHAT! WHY did you say that
name, Martha!, that's my moms name!, and then Superman says MARTHA!
HEY! that's my moms name! and then they cry and hug each other and
become best of friends the rest of the movie!8. LAST BUT NOT LEAST - BEN AFFLECK/ BATMAN WOW WOW WOW ...Val Kilmer
and George Clooney are breathing a collective sigh of relief after
seeing this pile of steroid garbage take on the role of Batman. Yes
after 2 long decades the monkey has been removed off of their
backs...The worst possible Batman performance in history award can now
be owned solely by Mr. Ben Affleck...Did anyone ever doubt him???
