4
Argo : PoliticalJust Political.

This movie was so horrible that I can't even begin to describe it.First, I'm going to break it down in 2 sections: the technical part and
the historical aspect.The Story was a mess and cliché. Such stories have been done so many
times that 2 minutes within the movie you are able to guess every event
and turnover that the story is going to take: An Unknown CIA agent who
has troubles with his wife and family goes on a dangerous, life
threatening mission to save the lives of Americans. In the process, he
disobeys a direct order, accomplishes the mission, comes back home and
gets a medal for it. And he is reunited with his family. And everyone
lives happily ever after. The end.That's the movie, summed up. And I can bet everyone can agree that it's
a cliché and overdone story. Other aspect is the historical aspect. I'm from Iran myself (but I
don't live there now) so I know exactly what went down. Let me start by
saying that the movie in fact IS a true story but it's not the WHOLE
truth. They managed to "forget" some important notes that I'm sure lots
of people noticed but chose to ignore it because of all the undeserved
hype around the movie. First thing is that the U.S government could
give up the Shah at any time and got the hostages back in a moment's
notice. But they didn't. Why? Didn't the lives of 60 US citizens
outweigh the life of a dictator who needed to be brought to justice?
This was never mentioned. Secondly, the Canadians role; it's very
popular among the people to call that mission "Canadian Caper". The
Canadians had a HUGE role in this process. In fact they had the main
role. They were the ones who issued REAL Canadian passports, they were
the ones who arranged the flights and coordinated people within Iran.
But we see their role cut down substantially to just the mere presents
of the Canadian Ambassador. Thirdly, the movie fails to mention that
the attack on the US embassy in Tehran was a result of decades of the
US interference in Iran's politics and decision making; All the way
from appointing prime ministers to staging coups. That's what drove the
people to that point, and the film, once again fails to mention that.
The film goes on to do what a typical Hollywood "true story" does.
Dramatize actual events and make it into a Hollywood film. and a
typical Hollywood ending scene (which never happened in real) Once again, horrible, horrible movie. Rating 4/10 : Only for the visual effects and production design which
was adequate.
