5
Very disappointing

V/H/S combines one of my favorite horror sub-genres (the horror
anthology) with one of my least favorite (found footage).
Unfortunately, the movie features very little of what I like about
horror anthologies with all of the things that I find annoying about
found footage tapes.The best horror anthologies work because many stories only really work
in 15-20 minute segments, and even when one story is disappointing it's
over fast enough and you move on to the next one. The best of the bunch
(Creepshow, Trilogy of Terror, Tales from the Crypt, etc.) also show a
creative variety with a variety of different characters, settings and
types of stories. I also usually enjoy the "frame" story that provides
one overall twist right at the end. Unfortunately the stories in V/H/S are highly under-developed and
rather same-y after a while. Two of the five segments and the
wrap-around feature borderline rapist fratboy types who receive a
horrible comeuppance; this theme would work in one segment but it
becomes repetitive. Like several of the segments, the central frame
doesn't come to any definitive conclusion and leaves more questions
than it answers. V/H/S may have worked better if the frame wasn't also
told in camera POV style. The film features a lot of gore and nudity but most of it is gratuitous
and unsexy. It really doesn't capture the EC Comics feel of a lot of
the best of this type of film. Overall I felt that V/H/S was slavishly
faithful to its central concept, at the expense of delivering real
scares or even making sense. I'll give a real brief review of each
segment, with minor spoilers:Amateur Night: A trio of college aged dooshbags head out on the town
looking for women. One of the group is wearing glasses outfitted with a
camera, in the hopes of filming one of his buddies doing the deed.
Needless to say they pick up the absolute wrong woman. This one
features a few legitimate scares and a decent ending but also feels
under-baked. 6/10Second Honeymoon: A young married couple take a road trip to the Grand
Canyon. They're stalked and pursued by a masked woman, who films them
sleeping in their motel room with their own camera. The violence at the
end is shocking but the twist has no context and makes no sense at all.
A huge disappointment, given that this one was directed by Ti West,
director of the excellent Innkeepers. 4/10Saturday the 17th: Very dumb "meta-slasher" with a lot of gore but
another dumb twist and very annoying main characters. The villain (the
Glitch) is interesting but again, really no point or answers. 5/10The Sick Thing that Happened to Emily When She was Younger: A young
girl and her boyfriend, a doctor out of town on his residency, have a
conversation about the girl's apparently haunted apartment. This one
succeeds in being creepy and the gimmick, showing the story entirely
through Skype conversations, was fun. Unfortunately we get more totally
unnecessary nudity and the twist, while interesting, makes no sense at
all. 6/1010/31/98: Four guys go to a Halloween party and end up at the WRONG
house. This one is by far the most effects heavy and cinematic and
really worked for those reasons. Some unanswered questions but overall
pretty satisfying. Too bad it came last and I was bored by that point.
7/10The frame movie: 2/10. Sucked straight through.Overall an interesting failure.
