4
You Can't Think About This Movie

OK, I'm going to preface this review by saying that overall I am a fan
of the MCU and I think they've given the world a fair few really good
movies and the remaining ones are almost always OK. That feat is
something that is commendable and something that I doubt will ever be
recaptured over a series that has this many movies in it. Now that that is out of the way let's get our hands dirty. Avengers: Age of Ultron is a dumb movie. That in of itself isn't a
damning thing really, a lot of great movies are dumb and rely more on
emotions to connect the audience to the plot but in this movie the
emotional connection is very scarce which is pretty unforgivable for a
movie nearly 2.5 hours in length. There are two emotional parts to the
movie which are both short parts to the film that I found to be much
more engaging and relatable than the rest of the movie as a whole and I
would be much more interested in an MCU movie that simply expanded on
them. These two parts being the party where the Avengers are all
hanging about and interacting in a way that reminded me that these
actors are actually all really talented. like seriously, who here
forgot that this cast has been nominated for a combined 9 Oscars?
Anyway the other scene is where the group spends a few days isolated on
one of their members property. Once again I'd love to see an entire
movie focused solely on these characters and how they get along but we
will never get that film so oh well. The action in the movie is good if not a little too clean for a movie
in which there is a explosive highway chase, a flying city and a
derailed train but this is technically a Disney flick so I'll let it
slide. The thing that I do not intend to let slide is the emotional
manipulation that the movie tries to pass of to its audience. I find it
pretty absurd that the same people who have accomplished so much with
Captain America: The Winter Soldier, Guardians of the Galaxy, and even
Dr. Strange are willing to turn in such canned and phony plot beats and
call it an Avengers movie. I mean the first movie even has a scene that
perfectly explains exactly what this movie tries to un-ironically
accomplish (the scene with the bloody trading cards if you were
wondering). It is really something that stops me every time I think
about re watching this movie because it irks me too much. Every single
new character is treated with the same level of tragic backstory as a
middle-schooler's OC in a fanfiction, its pathetic.But at the end of the day if you are willing to simply go into a movie
and be satisfied with people punching things to solve their problems
then you will be fine with this movie. Just try not to think about it
too much, you may accidentally put more thought into it than the
writers.
