9
Special Treatment Both Visually and Historically

Have noticed others have said they were a little upset with a couple of
added sequences that were not from the book. Having not read the book
this offered no distraction. While it maybe agreeable when a movie
adaption follows a book - they remain distinctly different mediums -
two different styles of writing, so it's not always fair to compere
them. The book in this case is Vera Brittain's autobiography. This
strong story has remained in print since it's first publishing in the
early 1930's - quite something for a female writer of this era.Since the release of that fine Turkish film "Gallipoli" in 2005,
'Testament Of Youth' has to be one of the best examinations of the
unforgivably tragic wastage of WWI - This was war created at the whims
of those who regarded themselves as the upper echelons - so called
leaders who did not deserve the very breath in their bodies. This BBC
Films 2014/15 production is stunning to look at and listen too, from
Jon Henson's detailed production design to just about every last cast
member it's a powerful thought provoker. Swedish born Alicia Vikander
may not always seem the right choice for the lead but works very hard
in a demanding role, Kit Harington convinces as Roland, Alexandra Roach
as Winifred, Dominic West as Dad and Emily Watson as Mum, fine
performances all.... It's a strong feature directorial debut for James Kent - embellished
with mostly lavish visual support provided by D.O.P. Rob Hardy (and
thank heavens hand held camera-work is kept to a minimum). The
screenplay by Juliette Towhidi is kept in check by the real life
daughter of Vera Brittain, Shirley Williams. It's possibly because of
this careful control the whole production maintains a high level of
integrity that's rarely seen in modern movies. Lavish scenes involving
steam trains are lovingly set up using trains from the Keighley and
Worth / North Yorkshire Moors Railways. The music score by Max Richter
(The Lunchbox '13 & Re-composing Vivaldi '14) adds handsomely and has
been blessed with full-scale orchestrations by Dave Foster. What's unique about this film's treatment is its solid focus on being
told from a female perspective. A young woman who experienced first
hand the loss of family, lover, and friends - who then went on to write
and speak out about the dehumanizing impact on all those who served and
died or were left to suffer throughout their lives. And for what
'essential' purpose?. This film brings home the horror - not with
endless shots of hideous trench warfare but by taking us into the
inadequate treatment 'hospitals', where so many young lives agonizingly
wasted away. All very tragic, but needs to be told and re-told...
