6
Sometimes hilarious yet disappointing ...

For years I have been a huge fan of the Ice Age series and had been
expecting this new movie for months! Needless to say I was counting the
days until the release of the movie and the hilarious teasers were
really making the waiting difficult ... I saw it tonight and have to admit that I feel really disappointed ...
Was I expecting too much ? We were a group of young adults who grew up
with the movies, or at least liked them a lot and we felt let down. The
storyline feels a little weak, I thought there would be a lot of
adventure and action, as in the 3 previous ones where you don't see how
time flies ... This one, if not boring, is too simple, not to mention
incredibly predictable. There is no twists and turns. When you think
about the first episode, yes, you realize how poor the scenario is in
this new one. I admit there's been a real effort to create an original story that
might bring the characters in another world and make them live another
adventure, different from the previous ones. I think this part is a
total failure. Not to mention the "song" they put in the movie, it was
nothing but ridiculous and irrelevant, especially for a movie series as
famous as Ice Age. I thought it was unnecessary. But since I laughed a few times and feel really bad about writing such
a "negative" review, I have to admit that some of the scenes were
absolutely hilarious and the characters have been kept as funny as they
used to be, especially Sid (and his incredible grandmother). It's just
a pity that the funny parts are so negligible ... You smile a lot, you
laugh sometimes, but certainly not during the whole movie.Maybe I am too old to appreciate this movie as I should have, as I'm
sure the kids will love it and the movie will have a lot of success
this summer. I don't wish it the contrary, I just watched it with my
not-so-kid-anymore-but-very-nostalgic-eyes and went out of the theater
with the feeling that something from before was clearly missing ...
