8
Surprised

I am an aircraft mechanic, so admittedly I have trouble watching a
movie which will undoubtedly abuse reality in terms of physics and
aircraft design. I recall seeing previews for this and being stunned at
the laughable scenario of an inverted passenger plane. That experience
dropped my expectation to essentially zero.When I watched this film I was surprised in two ways. Firstly, the
scenario was more plausible than I had given it credit. Inverted flight
is a problem for most planes because of aerodynamics. And while some
aircraft are aerodynamically capable of inverted flight (even some
passenger planes) it is additionally a problem because hydraulic and
engine oil systems are often gravity fed. This means that if a plane is
able to fly this way, most of them won't fly for long before systems
begin to fail. The film did a reasonable job of portraying this as the
plane was just barely able to sustain level flight with a full pitch
down elevator position and displayed low engine oil press warnings
which led to engine fire. I suspect the roll maneuver would require
more altitude than the film suggests...but otherwise it's not far from
what could happen in reality if this was actually attempted. Most
engine fire T-handles are designed to instantly shut fuel and bleed air
valves for an engine...which doesn't seem to happen here, but that was
my biggest realism gripe.My second surprise is that this movie has very little to do with
aviation. Aviation seems to be the setting for the story, but the
subject itself is substance abuse. The story could have just as easily
been set around a bus driver or a ship captain. Given the fact that
aviation was merely a setting for the story I have to give credit to
the film makers for paying at least some attention to realism.I thought the story was fascinating. It's the sort of film that
requires something of the viewer. You can't watch this without making
moral judgements and that process requires each viewer to evaluate how
they feel about certain subjects. The story creates just enough moral
dilemma to get people thinking and any story that can succeed in that
gets a pass from me.
