7
A decent entry but not without it's faults

So after loving DOFP, circumstances (eg: Holiday)caused me to have to
wait several weeks after the release date to watch this movie and
before showtime I had heard mixed reviews, but with most of them
leaning towards a poor one I went in without any expectations so that I
may avoid any potential disappointments. Now firstly let me say I wasn't disappointed, I found this film to be a
decent enough entry in to the Xmen universe, certainly better than some
other notable entries (Origns - I'm talking to you...). There was lots
in this film that I liked, mostly as it seemed more loyal to the
cartoon I watched back in my youth that I loved so much. There were
plenty of characters involved in the film, comic book style action
sequences and the always fun quicksilver scene, such a welcome addition
to the xmen movies, and something that maybe points out one thing
Marvel have done wrong with a character in their films... The Weapon X "cameo" - I enjoyed this but think it would have been so
much better had they not spoilt this in the trailer, it fitted well
with the story and you knew you were going to Alkali lake so it
would've been nice to have had the anticipation of whether you would
see Wolverine, but it was done well done and I liked that this was all
we saw of him. Now I like the Wolverine character but personally felt
that the original trilogy suffered due to an overdose of Wolverine, yes
he was the main character of the first films but none of the other
characters got developed which I felt made the films suffer, this is
why I liked that Cyclops had a much more prominent role in this film
and enjoyed that it seemed to focus more on him and Jean Grey and his
rise to becoming a leader of the X-men.Now this wasn't the perfect film and there were bad points that I found
to it. The pacing of the film was a little strange at times, it was a
shame that Havok's death seemed to be almost glossed over "He was
closest to the explosion" "Oh, I thought I got everyone" ..... "Oh
well, never mind...!" Bit of a shame as we never got to see the "Bad ass" he was made out to
be in the previous outings. Speaking of deaths I did have a sneaky
feeling there may be another one in the film and almost expected
Mystique to die in the final battle, especially with her being built up
as a hero all the way through the film, but then wondered if
Quicksilver might perish when taking on Apocalypse on by himself - in
another fantastic sequence, but this was not the case.Whilst it was good to see a big cast, The horsemen seemed to just be
"there" and with the exception of Storm (slightly) were not fleshed out
- Angel is seemingly built up as some seasoned warrior and is
introduced with a cage fight scene having just beaten the blob and
having gone 10 fights undefeated (Which we don't see any of) before he
meets nightcrawler where he promptly gets his "ass handed to him". Even
in the rematch at the end of the film he still struggles to put up any
kind of fight. Psylocke was just sat in a room with Caliban evidently
as his bodyguard, and for no real reason just decides to join
Apocalypse, though this may be to save Calibans life?? But it would've
been nice to have spent a little more time giving them some character -
especially in a 2 & 1/2 film.My biggest problem though which I had ever since he was announced was
Oscar Issac as Apocalypse. Whilst I have no problem with him as an
actor I just never saw him as being that character and wasn't convinced
of him at any point through the film. Apocalypse is a hugely
overpowered mutant who has a deep booming voice and should be menacing
and instil fear in to those he meets, yet Issacs is tiny and had too
much of a softly spoken voice in the film and I just found he didn't
fit the part at all., he just looked like one of the gang when stood
with his horsemen. Now whilst I'm not saying he should've had the part
instead, I think someone like the Rock, with his build, would've been
more visually suited to the character, but that's just my opinion.Whilst this does almost wrap the whole Xmen story up I do hope there is
another one after this, they have after all teased the Phoenix saga
again so can see this being the next big thing, though I think the next
film will be too soon for this story to resolve as it will need
fleshing out more first, but the end credit scene leaves a couple of
potential movies, with a potential creation of X-23, or hopefully Mr
Sinister as the next big bad. But overall it's a good enough entry and I don't think it's as bad as
some people have said, it's certainly not worthy of the 1's and 2's out
of 10 that some people have given it??? But again it's the nods to the
comics and cartoons which I liked about the films, with the scene at
the end with the team in their cartoon costumes in the training room a
brilliant way to end the film.
