1
Confusing AND Disturbing

Spoilers, you've been warned.OK, so I've never been a Broadway/musical fan BUT, I do appreciate a
good story when I see one. Into The Woods was not one of those good
stories. First off, the story starts off with an incredibly repetitive
and rather annoying song which is supposed to introduce the major
characters but instead turns into a montage of all the major characters
spouting the same lines with slight variations over and over again for
15 minutes too long. In reality, pretty much every song is the same
repetitive nonsense with the exception of one song sung by the two
princes which is refreshing in it provides just a little bit of humor
which is utterly lacking throughout the rest of the film. Next problem
is the lack of character development. All the characters feel shallow
and you have a hard time finding a character to be interested in and
honestly I was more interested in the damn cow for the majority of the
movie than any of the main characters. Third problem I had was pacing,
things go from 0 to 100 real fast and then it likes to hit a wall in
the form of another repetitive 15 minute song in order to completely
throw you off. Fourth problem is the really disturbing and graphic
material that somehow slipped into a PG rated film i.e., Johnny Depp's
character and the rather obvious allusion to pedophiles using candy to
lure unsuspecting children or Cinderella carelessly sicking her bird
friends on her step sisters to peck their eyes blind in some twisted
sense of revenge, the list goes on and on. And last and probably the
biggest problem I had with this film was the overall confusing plot. My
girlfriend and I spent the majority of the movie trying to figure out
exactly what was happening and just when we thought we were getting a
grip on the plot the whole movie would make a U turn and head in a
totally different direction. Characters' thoughts and actions are void
of all logic. I may just be ignorant for never having read the play but
I was utterly confused when the witch just decided she had enough of
everyone and TURNED HERSELF INTO MUD. In addition, the story makes many
really interesting connections between the characters but then simply
fails to explore those connections, the biggest for me being that
Rapunzel and the Baker are actually brother and sister. Instead of
exploring this connection the two never even come into contact with one
other nor do they actively pursue one another. What's worse is that
Rapunzel seems to play no significant role in the movie whatsoever
which is apparent when she just disappears part way through the movie
with her prince never to be seen or heard from again.Overall, the film is incredibly boring, confusing, and at times,
disturbing, and will leave you looking for any excuse you can think of
to shuffle out of the theater in search of a movie actually worth
watching.
