1
Truly awful...Oliver Stone what happened to you?

I went to see 'Savages' today with a friend. The movie was truly a
pathetic waste of celluloid and talent. The script seems to have been
written with a crayon.Benicio del Toro and Selma Hayek are capable of much better than this
dreck. Blake Lively was horribly weak and miscast as a poor little rich
girl who is in love with two professional pot growers in California.
The two guys live and share her with each other, all like a big happy
family. Ridiculous.The only thing even remotely reminiscent of Oliver Stone's finer works
is the realistic graphic violence (Platoon, Natural Born Killers).
Unfortunately the violence is ham- handed and boring.SPOILER:At the very beginning of the movie the two protagonist
pot-growing-buddies receive a video message warning from the South
American cartel headed by Selma Hayek's character. The video is so
shocking, so disturbingly violent, that how the main characters react
to it is completely non-believable. Attached to the video is a place
and time the cartel wants to meet the expert growing duo the next day
to force them into a contract with the cartel.---Any normal person
receiving this video warning would disappear/pack up and flea
immediately. But no, instead the guys chill out, smoke pot, and have
sex until the next day as if their lives aren't in mortal danger...this
is just one of the major weaknesses in the plot.Emile Hirsch is completely underused as a bicycling expert computer
hacker who is capable of hacking into the credit card companies and
international bank accounts of the cartel; he would have been better
cast as one of the two main male characters. John Travolta phones in a lackluster performance as a crooked DEA agent
who just happens to have a wife dying from cancer. Whenever he brings
her up (we never see her) he is always lighthearted and smiling; he
might as well be discussing his golf handicap...The ending seems to have been decided "by committee." Seems like the
studio couldn't figure out how the movie should end so they give us two
endings; the film literally rewinds and shows the second, alternate
ending....just pathetically bad. There were audible groans from the
audience...The movie is 2 hours 15 minutes; could have been trimmed by a half hour
or more...The plot is a train wreck; Oliver Stone said in a recent interview
about the film that the book this is based on had 120 different scenes;
he trimmed that down to 30. He said he was more inspired by rather than
actually trying for a faithful adaption. This is a real tragedy and the
movie suffers for it. Mr. Stone basically was too lazy to get it right;
this movie could have been a classic like the Pacino/De Niro
masterpiece, Heat. This is too bad as the source book material for
'Savages' is highly regarded.Truly a bad, poorly written movie. Stupid and logic-defying.I was excited to see this; I was hoping for a Pulp Fiction/Natural Born
Killers vibe (that's what the preview falsely promises).This is Oliver Stone's low point; he can only go up from here. Please
don't waste your time, energy, or money on this bloated, overlong,
waste of talent, piece of crap. A true raspberry. Insulting to fans
that have come to expect realistic and compelling films from Mr. Stone.There are lapses in logic within this film that are worse than cheap
'Friday the 13th' films; things that no rational human being who values
their safety/life would ever do. And this is inexcusable as this movie
portends to be a serious and realistic tale. 'Lethal Weapon' is more
plausible. So is 'The Dark Knight.' 'Savages' plays like a cheap, second-tier comic book of a film. Putrid
and sad.On a positive note, my friend and I had a pretty entertaining
discussion on the way home from the theater discussing the colossal
absurdity of what we had just sat through...I wish I could say 'this
movie was so bad it's good.' Unfortunately it's just plain BAD. Very
disappointing.
