9
A lot better than expected, and made for gamers

Side note: The animated short Paper Man was very good. The animation
was a unique blend of CGI but made to look like hand drawn animation.
The only slight issue I had with it is that the short got crazy at the
end and became unbelievable. Still cute.Being a gamer, I decided to go to this movie. I knew the movie was
going to be good, but I didn't expect it to be really good. The action,
humor, voice-acting, plot, and animation are all great. Since this
movie is aimed towards gamers, I feel like a lot of the cameos and
jokes are going to fly over most people's heads, such as "All your base
are belong to us" written on a subway wall or "Leroy Jenkins was here".
Thankfully, the movie doesn't rely on cameos to be successful.The animation in Wreck-It Ralph is very beautiful, and is great at
expressing the video game world. I did not see it in 3D, but just from
watching it in 2D I can tell that this movie would look amazing in 3D.
The animators did really good in this movie because each video game
world looks vastly different from another. Each world feels like an
actual video game that I've played. If there is one problem that I can
pick out in this movie (and many others have noted this as well) is
that the plot focuses on the Sugar Rush world a bit too much. Most of
the other worlds are revealed at the beginning mainly for the sake of
reference, with only a few actually being important.The humor in Wreck-It Ralph is good because it hits a very large
audience. A lot of the cameos and jokes are related to video games but
there are also a lot of movie references as well, puns, slapstick
jokes, and some crude humor. Some people complained at the crude humor
but honestly it didn't bother me because it was coming from a character
who looks like she is five, so it actually made sense.The interesting thing about Wreck-It Ralph's plot is that it has very
little to do with an external conflict, but more with an internal one
(which is a pun in itself because they are inside of video games).
There is a main bad guy, and a huge disaster, and all of these other
conflicts but these elements are back seat to the character
development. I thought it was neat since most animated movies do the
opposite. The voices for all of the characters were really well done.
There weren't any annoying characters which adds to the movie. Another
nice thing about the plot is that main bad guy is not revealed until
the very end of the movie which focuses the plot on the characters, not
the action or the villain.Overall a really great movie. Spectacular animation, great voice work,
emotional and even touching at times, and overall humorous. While the
Sugar Rush world might get slightly stale after awhile, it is still
excellent movie. Gamers, this goes to you, WATCH THIS MOVIE!
