9
Power of the Human Spirit

If there's one thing you can count on Clint Eastwood doing well, it's
directing an emotionally heartfelt story. Sully continues Eastwood's
success by giving us probably the most human drama of 2016."The miracle on the Hudson" is the subject of this Eastwood drama,
starring Tom Hanks, Aaron Eckhart, and Laura Linney. There will be
plenty of obstacles with any film based on a true story, but with a
film based on an event that lasted a mere 208 seconds, it's extra
difficult. But Eastwood manages to pull a great story out of these
unbelievable events that comes in just under 2 hours. Of course, the
flight itself isn't the only hurdle that captain Sully went through, as
he dealt with reporters, investigators, and the National Transportation
Safety Board determined to diminish his heroic efforts.Who could possibly be better to play Captain Sully than the great Tom
Hanks. Having wonderfully played another "controversial" captain back
in 2013 as Captain Phillips, there was no doubt he could pull off a
somewhat similar role. Boy does Hanks deliver. He always effortlessly
pulls out the big speeches and powerful dialogue well, but I often find
his more subtle acting to be more impressive. It's the moments when
Sully is reacting to the big moments with only his facial expressions
and body languages that give me goosebumps. Not many actors are able to
bring me to the verge of tears just by a facial expression, but Hanks
is one of them.Eastwood and his editors also deserve tons of credit for their work
here. Much like Hanks' subtle acting, I love when Eastwood holds back
the bombastic music (that can sometimes take you out of a story like
this) and lets the audience choose how to feel by watching gorgeous
cinematography and poignant acting and directing. This may be
Eastwood's best directorial work since Million Dollar Baby. He
understood exactly the moments to use and not music in order to pull
the emotion out of his audience.Most of all, this film is a great display of the power of the human
spirit. Everything about this film is grounded with humanity. No one
seems fake. So often Hollywood is flooded with over-the-top filmmaking
that can easily dilute the power of the film's message. Sully knows
exactly what it's going for, and it does it to near perfection.+Eastwood back at the top+Hanks subtle acting+Power of human spirit91/100
