3
A Long Wait for Disappointment

In 1982 I was deeply excited about the prospect of seeing "Blade
Runner," and can remember applying for a chance to see an advance
showing in Sacramento. From the start it seemed obvious that it was a
special film--clouded in controversy and mystery. Later I acquired my
much-viewed VHS copy, with all the eye-gouging, nail-puncturing
violence. Later still the Internet provided background information as,
eventually, did articles plus a comprehensive book by Paul M. Sammon.
In short, I am a fan, and was eagerly anticipating the sequel.So, it was with disappointment that I left an October 6, 2017 showing
"Blade Runner 2049." Overly long, boring, poorly paced, and confusing
were my initial impressions, though admittedly it was beautifully
filmed (potential Oscar nomination in cinematography?).I appreciated the many (too many?) subtle and not-so-subtle nods to the
original film, the effort to build on the "Blade Runner" universe, and
efforts by writers, directors, and actors to bring the story to life.
But there were just too many scenes that should have been reduced in
length from 25-50% of their run time. Such excess in a film is, to me,
almost always a fatal flaw. And some scenes (e.g., where characters
"Joi" and "Mariette" merge to make love to "K") could have been cut
altogether, I feel, without harming the story.The acting was satisfactory or better, for the most part, as one would
expect from the level of supporting talent.* However, I have knowingly
seen two pictures starring Ryan Gosling—2016's "La La Land" and now
this—and in both he is bland and wooden. Despite the fact that "2049's"
"K" is SUPPOSED to be a self-controlled, artificial humanoid, I wonder
if it is just Gosling's natural on- (and off-) screen persona. And
frankly, Harrison Ford's "Deckard" just did not work for me.
Sacrilegious, I know; but true. I blame this on two factors.First, Ford appears (too) late in the movie, by which time I was
already exhausted by tedium. Second, for a character without
appearance-changing makeup, a dramatic accent, say, or pronounced
behavioral distinctions, it is hard not to just see Harrison Ford.
(Kind of like Robert Redford miscast in 1985's "Out of Africa.") Oh,
it's (old) Harrison Ford again. Sorry HF fans everywhere.And another thing; due to poor direction, they included "Admiral
William Adama" (Edward James Olmos) from TV's "Battlestar Galactica,"
and not "Gaff" (also Olmos), in a too brief cameo. (Listen to "Gaff" in
the 1982 original. Totally different voicing.)Like most films, it suffered from its share of "Oh, come on!" moments.
Why would 6-foot "K" allow 6-foot-6 Dave Bautista's imposing "Sapper
Morton" to make the first move (and thus begin the accumulation of a
ridiculous amount of damage, most of it unnecessary, sustained by "K"
throughout the story)? Because that's what movie detectives do. I must
say, "K" apparently likes to pass violently through solid walls (a nod
to Rutger Hauer's "Roy Batty" head in the original, I take it).Almost all action-adventure films are silly in hindsight and full of
movie plot clichés—"Blade Runner 20149" is no exception. But the test
of a good movie is whether the story flows at a pace that makes
audiences subconsciously accept and even relish these otherwise
nonsensical encumbrances (see 1999's "The Matrix"). For my part I was
less inclined to give "2049" a pass on the silliness due to its
plodding nature.Ridley Scott is prominently associated with both the recent "Alien" and
Blade Runner" franchises, and has promised multiple sequels. Do we want
this? Is state-of-the-art movie-making worth either ridiculously poor
stories (the "Alien" franchise) or bad plotting and editing ("Blade
Runner 2049")? It's admittedly hard to make a good movie, but Scott and
his people are paid a LOT of money to do so. Check Scott's IMDb
filmography. Can any mortal be involved first-hand in that many
projects? As with Stephen King, maybe it's time to stop the quantity
and re-focus on the quality? Just saying…In conclusion, my disappointment focused primarily on the script and
editing.**Some recommendations to potential viewers: First, if you plan to see
"Blade Runner 2049" it will help to see one of 37 versions (e.g.,
voice-over or no voice-over?; graphic violence shots or not?) of the
original 1982 film beforehand. Second, maybe wait to watch the movie
digitally, so that you can re-play key scenes and increase volume on
important dialogue. In the theater I kept mentally reaching for a
non-existent remote control. Third, (after Recommendation One) if like
me you hold the original picture in deep admiration as a flawed but
intriguing analog masterpiece of SF movie-making, consider skipping
this sequel altogether. But I imagine that warning will fall on deaf
ears._____* Because of the look and feel of two female characters in the film, I
wonder if actresses Felicity Jones ("Rogue One") and Tatiana Maslany
("Orphan Black") were originally considered for the parts eventually
played by Ana de Armas (companion hologram "Joi") and Sylvia Hoeks
(deadly replicant "Luv"). While watching the trailer footage, I
originally mistook those two characters for actresses Jones and
Maslany. Their doppelgangers did just fine, though. Hoeks' "Luv" is
particularly chilling.** Oh, and the music! Not so good. Too often I was aware of background
music--that by itself is not a good thing--and its shortcomings. So
much so that by the end of "2049," where original "Blade Runner" music
("Tears in the Rain," I think) is (finally) used, it left me with mixed
feelings. First, thank god! Second, where was that musical excellence
during the rest of the film? Music can make or break a film, and is
incredibly important. Few excellent films have poor musical
soundtracks. Unfortunately, "Blade Runner 2049" is not an exception to
that guideline.
