1
By far the most disappointing film of the year!

Seldom has there been a film where the critic's opinions and its true
quality diverge so seriously. "Boyhood" is empty because it lacks
content and form. It celebrates the ordinary and mediocrity instead of
aiming at something extraordinary. As a result, it embraces nothingness
and is in that sense deeply nihilistic and even depressing. Anybody
with the same camera and some actors could have made this movie or
(more likely) a better one.Those who praise the film always point out the same circumstance (the
only thing they can say) which is: This film is like "real life". I
have to say: This is true (on the most superficial level imaginable).
But I may ask: Is that a good thing? Is this, if film history has
taught us anything, what a film should be? "Real life", according to
Linklater, means a lifespan during which nothing happens. The
Boyhood-experience is the equivalent of your experience waiting in line
at the supermarket. Yes, this is the "real life" Linklater presents us.
NOTHING HAPPENS IN THIS MOVIE! Nothing, no story, no interesting
characters, just ordinary situations from "real life". Of course, there
are films in which nothing or very little happens and they can be great
(Tarkovsky's "Mirror", Antonioni's "L'avventura" or Tarr's "The Turin
Horse" come to my mind), but you need ideas (you got that, Linklater?),
you need a style or form which cannot be separated from the content,
you need a capable director that can create a form of visual
communication. Boyhood offers none of those things. The film gets
praised especially by those who have never seen an art-house movie and
mistake it for an art film. People are misled so easily. Boyhood is
pure blankness, shallowness, superficiality, nothingness.To praise Boyhood as a masterpiece is actually a slap in the face of
all those directors who put a real effort into creating works of art
that have real value.Boyhood is in fact an anti-film in the sense that it stands against
everything film should be - be it an artistic masterpiece or just an
entertaining, fun movie. The film is neither a work of art nor
entertaining. In that regard it can be called a non-film. It celebrates
its own non-existence and drowns in its nihilism. I doubt this was
Linklater's intention but it certainly is the result of what he
created.Be warned: This is NOT a drama. The movie is the opposite of a
carefully constructed work of art. It's nothing but a re-enactment of
memories, a collection of unmeaning scenes we may or may not know from
our own lives (bowling, playing video games, reading Harry Potter
etc.). I think it is only fair to ask: What is the point? I went to see
this film having high hopes and (having read all the raving reviews)
expecting a masterpiece from Richard Linklater, the director of the
great "Waking Life". I liked the trailer which makes the movie look
much more interesting than it actually is (actually, everything that
"happens" in the movie is already in the trailer!). The basic idea of
filming a boy growing into a young man during twelve years is
interesting, yes, but sadly the film offers nothing more than that.
This is not enough! Sadly, many critics seem to have liked the basic
idea so much that to them it didn't even matter if the director would
be able to make it interesting or not.The film which is much too long follows an unstable family and focuses
on the life of Mason, a character that has absolutely no interesting
characteristics whatsoever. The intelligent viewer will be unable to
connect with such a person. Mason walks through this film as if he was
in a coma or half asleep; he has no ambitions. At some point he gets
his first kiss, gets interested in photography (the ultimate art form
for unimaginative lazy people) during high school (haven't we seen that
already too many times?), goes to college at which point the film ends.
I kid you not, this is the whole movie. The mother becomes a teacher at
a local college and always seems to attract the wrong guys. The father
is an unemployed loser who only talks about pop music and ends up being
a square. Mason's sister (the director's daughter) grows up too and
that's pretty much all you can say about her.It is actually impossible to spoil this film because nothing happens
(unless you consider the fact that Mason finishes high school a
spoiler). Linklater completely fails to dramatize his ideas. As a
result, following this movie feels like watching family home videos of
a family you do not care about - just with better picture quality.Instead of using form (or content/drama) to make the film interesting,
"Boyhood" refuses to do just that and therefore remains superficial.You don't get to the essence of "real life" by only showing the surface
of things. Everybody could do that!It is really hard talking about this film because there isn't a single
interesting character or scene in it. You just follow ordinary events
in the lives of these people. Stay away from this movie!Yes, this review will get negative votes, just because I didn't like
the film, unlike the critic's union. Well, none of those "critics" were
able to offer a single insightful argument that would speak for this
non-movie. In fact, many even admitted the film lacked interesting
characters or style! But because of the 12-year-gimmik, they call it a
"masterpiece". Give me a break. I would be willing to debate any of
these pseudo-intelligent "critics" and tear them into pieces. Over and
out.
