10
Best X-Men movie Yet! Believe It

I was so intrigued about this movie. I had a terrible feeling of
disappointment because First Class was absolutely fine and riveting.
That one was even better than X-Men 2 (the last one directed by Brian
Singer before this). So I tried to went to see this with low
expectation. And what a wonderful entertainment and surprising
thoughtful story I found here. Days Of Future Past is the best X-men
movie so far for two main reasons:Fans of the original trilogy and First Class will definitely enjoy this
one thanking its nostalgia and its perfect and well balanced mix
between the original characters and the new ones (with just a few ones
who maybe deserved more credit, but is not at all a problem for the
movie). & This movie delivers a surprising top notch entertaining with
a potent story and some good twists that help to live up expectations
mixed with terrific special effects and cinematography. 3-D is very
cool here.The actors are fantastic. Fassbender and McAvoy still delivering
amazing performances meanwhile Stewart and Mckellen give their
reflections in the same excellent way that in the trilogy. Hugh Jackman
finally finds his character as a true important one in comparison with
the last movies. Wolverine/Logan finally has a proper treatment in this
movie that will help anyone who could be annoyed with his solo
adventures to love him again. They are the five main stars of the story
with the inclusion of a spectacular and skillful Mystique (impressive
Jennifer Lawrence who steals almost every scene of hers) who is
undoubtedly the sixth one. The other actors made good performances and
make possible the transitions of the story until the amazing finale.It has been so many comparisons with The Avengers. Let me tell you
something with all my respect. I found this one truly better. X-Men:
Days of Future Past will please the fans and moviegoers and will inject
fresh blood and joy to the franchise. This is a terrific time at the
movies. Don't miss the opportunity to see it.
