3
Bland Hammer

The first THOR was a hard sell… A demigod with long blond hair and an
ancient hammer isn't your typical brooding comic book hero… And so the
earthlings, including Natalie Portman's Jane, a beautifully brainy love
interest and her colleagues, including sarcastic hipster chick Darcy,
who, using a snarky monotone, second-guesses the bizarre situation,
helped make the audience believe this was all really happening…But after THE AVENGERS, we don't need further confirmation. Thor,
played by Chris Hemsworth, is very real and his home-world Asgard is in
danger because of a monolithic structure Jane discovers between worlds…
Part of which enters her body… And when she quickly travels with Thor
to Asgard, the stranger in a strange land concept doesn't quite work
like when Thor came to earth…Although a worthy actress, Portman's tone/voice sounds more like a
valley girl in a local arcade. Meanwhile, back on earth, as the
scientists gather to figure things out, Darcy's forced comic relief is
annoying, distracting, and downright unfunny…Thankfully there's Thor's "brother", that instigative menace from THE
AVENGERS who, locked into a permanent glass structure, is freed to help
destroy the big bad (and completely uninteresting) villain… Thankfully, the dependable Loki, like Gene Hackman's Lex Luthor in
SUPERMAN 2… after being replaced as the central villain… keeps the dry
humor flowing – some lines hit, other miss, but that's the best thing
DARK WORLD has going for it: the camaraderie between two polar opposite
brothers in a colorful world where dazzling special effects have an old
school matte painting aesthetic, while space ships zoom around like in
the STAR WARS (or current STAR TREK) universe…It's when Thor joins the small band of earthlings to thwart the
city-ravaging beast, while strategically jumping from various wormholes
into either dimension, that things gets convoluted, ponderous, and with
a second AVENGERS already planned, somewhat pointless too…
