8
weathered faces lined in pain

Greetings again from the darkness. For those skeptics who scoff when
filmmaking is described as an art form and labor of love, co- directors
Dorota Kobiela and Hugh Welchman invite you to take in their nearly
decade-in-the-making project. It's the first fully hand-painted on
canvas feature film - experimental filmmaking crafted by more than 100
artists and including an estimated 130 paintings, with 65,000
individual shots/frames. The spectacular visuals were created by painting over the images … both
of actors performing scenes and van Gogh's paintings. By adding to and
amending images, even 10 times or more, the scenes come to life with
movement and a pulsating psychedelic feel. The familiar colors of his
paintings create a level of connection, while black & white images are
used for flashbacks and reenactments. Though we have never seen this look on screen before (this goes beyond
Linklater's WAKING LIFE), the stunning visuals are accompanied by what
can be described as a detective story or murder/suicide mystery. It
picks up in 1891, one year after van Gogh's suspicious death. A local
Arles postman holds one last letter from Vincent to his beloved brother
Theo. Having held onto it for much too long, he asks his son Armand
Roulin to hand-deliver the letter to Theo. Sporting the yellow blazer
so recognizable from his portrait, the angry and skeptical Armand heads
to Paris. Little does he know, this is only the beginning of his
journey … a journey that finds him researching Vincent's life and a
journey that helps him discover more about himself.There have been many movies made focusing on this amazing artist: LUST
FOR LIFE (1956), VINCENT (1987), VINCENT & THEO (1990), and VAN GOGH
(1991). This one is filled with contrasting and conflicting stories,
theories and recollections, and descriptions of events from those who
crossed paths with the artist on a daily basis. We listen right along
with Armand as he spends time in Avers-sur-Oise … where Vincent lived,
painted, and died.Many of the actors involved are recognizable even in this artistic
format: Chris O'Dowd is the postman, Douglas Booth is Armand, John
Sessions plays art supplier Pete Tanguy, Eleanor Thompson is the
innkeeper's daughter Adaline, Jerome Flynn is the controversial Dr.
Gachet, Saoirse Ronan is Gachet's daughter Margarita (recognizable from
her piano portrait), Helen McCrory plays the disgruntled Gachet
housekeeper, Aidan Turner is the boatman, and Robert Gulaczyk is
Vincent. Since these folks were all part of van Gogh's artwork, we are
fascinated to see them come to "life". Vincent van Gogh picked up a brush for the first time at age 28. He was
dead at age 37, and left behind approximately 800 paintings of
portraits and landscapes – many among the most famous pieces in the
world today. Did he try to commit suicide as he claimed or was there a
more sinister explanation for his death? Of course the filmmakers only
hint at possible answers and can't solve a mystery that is approaching
two centuries. Understanding the man is challenging, and perhaps our
best hope is through the work he left behind. This is a compelling
cinematic experience and we have certainly benefited from the
filmmaker's labor of love. Clint Mansell's score leans heavily on
strings and piano, and is perfect accompaniment for the story. One
could question the closing credits use of Lianne La Havas' version of
"Vincent" (renamed "Starry Starry Night") rather than Don McLean's, but
one mystery per day is plenty. Spot the paintings, play detective, and
mostly enjoy the visuals built on the works of a complex, talented, and
tragic figure.
