5
...oh dear Abrams. Again.

I'll leave this review fairly concise. This film was originally called "the cellar" the premise being what we
see for the first 90% of "10 cloverfield lane": an excellent,
brilliantly-scripted thriller set in an underground bunker, the tension
lying in the "goodie-or-baddie" mystery that is the owner of the
bunker, Howard. He is telling our hero, Michelle, that she cannot leave
because the air outside is not breathable due to an attack, probably
nuclear. She wants to leave because she suspects that Howard is insane.That premise right there is perfect. Is Howard telling the truth? Is he
a deranged kidnapper? Will Michelle eventually decide to leave? Is the
air really breathable outside? The magnitude of that intrigue would
have made for a brilliant film. Would have.This is when JJ Abrams and bad robot came in and basically did what
they do with the end of every single project they ever take on. Ruin
it. Ruin it absolutely horrifically. They have clearly seen monetary
value in the name "cloverfield" and are insisting on making it a
franchise. Do we expect monsters going into this film? Yes. Do we get
them? Yes. Was it necessary? Absolutely one million percent no. 10 minutes from the end of what had been a gripping film, we finally
see Michelle leave, and escape the bunker. She realises that the air is
still breathable. Now, "pre-abrams" as I'll refer to it, this would've
been an excellent ending. A bittersweet tale of abuse, of loneliness
from Howard's point of view, of revenge, of victory. But with a huge
psychological trauma to go home with. Honestly this film would be
perfect had it ended here. But it wasn't to be.This is when the aliens come. We seem to in the blink of an eye turn
from "the cellar", a brilliantly told thriller, into an Abrams,
overly-Hollywood, big budget cringefest. For me, it wasn't the moment
the spaceship came on the screen, it was the moment our timid hero,
portrayed brilliantly up until now, who'd just been crying
uncontrollably with relief at the air still being breathable, suddenly
turns stern action hero. She looks up and says "you have GOT to be
kidding me", in the same emphatic way we've seen in 600 "five out of
ten" films down the years. I'm sorry, but you've just seen alien life. And that's your reaction?
In what until now was a very realistic, well told suspense thriller?
Not having it for a second. It was like we could see the moment Abrams
took over. And it ruined what could have been a classic.The remaining 9 minutes are nothing more than a glorified creature
feature, culminating in our hero, who's suddenly lost all her emotions,
driving off to help the "human resistance" fight against the aliens.End of movie. What amazes me most is the number of critic reviews I've
seen saying "the aliens are a metaphor for what is outside a person's
lonely bubble of abuse" or some nonsense along those lines. Sorry guys
but you're thinking WAY too much into it. This is a story of a
money-grabbing company, who bought a perfectly good script, and ruined
the ending with aliens. I'm not entirely sure what I expected in all honesty. It's Abrams. I
saw the ending to LOST and vowed never to make the mistake of investing
my time in any of his projects again. Sure enough, I made the
aforementioned mistake again and it's almost as bad as LOST was (minus
the 5 years of my life id invested for the lovey-dovey, semi-religious,
out-of- ideas cop out snoozefest that was the ending to LOST). Abrams strikes me as one of those who inexplicably takes pride in
disappointing his audiences, as if he feels he's somehow above them and
that the negative reviews are just people who don't "get" him. I think
in all honesty it's more a sign that he's just not very good at what he
does. My advice? Turn off when you see Michelle remove her oxygen mask.
Pretend that's the end and you have your film of the year. Watch on for
yet another example of "how to ruin a perfectly decent project: by JJ
Abrams"5/10. 10 for the first hour and a half, minus 5 for the last 10
minutes.
