1
A movie about 2 bad people that have a Fling.

I enjoy a good romantic comedy or 'chick flick' that tells a tale of
complicated people falling in love in even more complicated
circumstances... when those people are actually decent people. That is
not the case here. Lou is in a relationship with Patrick, a seemingly
nice and decent guy. He's active, fun, appropriately funny, ambitious,
sweet, and he truly cares for her. They've been together 7 years! Then
she meets Will. Will is a complete asshole. No really... there is not 1
redeeming quality about him as a person. He's dull... he speaks in a
completely monotone voice the entire movie... he's not funny, not even
a little bit... he's insulting... he's selfish... he's suicidal... he
does nothing to even attempt to make anyone elses life around him
better. The only thing that this man has going for him is that he is
RICH AND HANDSOME. He even admits that he would want nothing to do with
her if he was still able to walk, and this doesn't phase her one bit.
We're supposed to give him a pass on all of those things just because
he's in a wheelchair? No... sorry... just no. She falls for this guy
and you could say "oh, but he was sweet and he gave her compliments"
but NO. She clearly falls for him well before that. Everything she
falls for is superficial. She loves the adventure... she loves the
money... she loves the feeling that she gets from taking care of him as
it makes her feel needed. There is nothing about him as a person that
she falls for! So she throws away 7 years with a great guy for a fling
with a rich and handsome asshole. WOW! And this was the movie that
somebody decided to make. WOW!!! This woman deserves to end up alone
and the only redeeming quality about this movie is that she is alone in
the end and I can at least imagine that this fling that she threw away
everything for will torture her for the rest of her life as she tries
to find another rich and handsome man that can fill Will's shoes, which
in reality she never will. This movie is a tragedy, not a love story.
