6
153 minutes long because characters can't talk?

It's a great movie, sensational, effective thriller, blah, blah , blah.
I don't want to repeat things that have already been said. I'll just
say what annoys me. Most tension in this movie comes from it's
characters being unable to speak. What's up with that?1.So we got this guy, who obviously has something to do with the
kidnapping of the two girls, and as it turns out, he was the one who
lured them into the van. It was a sloppy kidnapping, they immediately
caught the suspect, but guess what,he can't (?)speak. They said that he
is on a level of a ten year old, but he behaves as he is on a level of
a three year old, but still, he has a driver license(?). So we then
come to all the beating,torturing and all the screaming :'Tell me where
are they?' If he said: it took them to my mothers house, the movie is
over. So he was so resilient to torture or simply he was to stupid to
make a sentence that makes sense. The later makes more sense, but on
the other hand, it makes no sense at all.2.Then comes the priest who has a rotten corp in his basement. But he
just mumbles. Like he's a 3 year old as well. He isn't able to say any
useful information. Who's the dead guy, what's his name , how he came
to him (or with whom, with what vehicle etc, etc..) He just can't speak
intelligible. 3. Them comes the guy who steals kid's clothing, using pig's blood,
hiding it with snakes. He's intelligent enough to recognize a cop, to
escape him, to, at the first moment, when the cop shows at his home,
fool him by saying '' I've never seen you before''. But when they need
to interrogate him, he is suddenly like a 3 year old, drawing and
mumbling and drooling like a completely retarded person who's unable to
say one sentence that makes sense. So we still don't know anything and
the movie goes on.4.Then comes the girl that escaped, she's in the hospital, but of
course, she is not able to speak. Or else she would tell us where she
was held, and the movie's over.5.And finally , when they rescue the second girl, she doesn't seem to
speak as well. Or else she would tell them about hidden basement in the
yard with entrance hidden under the old car. But no...So somewhere around 80 min into the movie , I had enough. I know that
they wanted that exciting, disturbing thriller, exploring moral
bipolarity of every human, dark (metaphorically and literally with all
the rain and pale colors). But for me this was to much and last 30
minutes was like a torture.
