6
Adequate and decent sequel filled with scary deeds , thrills , chills and lots of scares

Supernatural horror plenty of weird phenomenon , frights , creepy
beings , shocks , and eerie events . The Lambert family formed by
father (Patrick Wilson) , mother (Rose Byrne) and children move
temporarily into the old house of Lorraine Lambert (Barbara Hershey).
Lorraine is the old friend of formerly deceased Elise Rainier (Lim
Shaye) , she brings again the group of ghost hunters Specs (Leigh
Whannell , also screenwriter) and Tucker (Angus Sampson) to resolve the
ghastly mystery . The haunted Lambert family seeks to uncover the
mysterious childhood secret that has left them dangerously connected to
the spirit world . Little do they know that the house is haunted . The
family looks to prevent evil spirits from a realm called The Further .This is a haunted child movie that contains restless horror as when the
invisible and threatening beings attack . The story is split between
the present day and 1986, where a young Elise Rainier is called in to
help Lorraine Lambert and her son , again starred by Patrick Wilson as
Josh Lambert , Rose Byrne as Renai Lambert , Ty Simpkins as Dalton ,
Lin Shaye a Elise Rainier , Barbara Hershey as Lorraine Lambert , Steve
Coulter as Carl and Leigh Whannell as Specs . Tension , creepy
atmosphere , genuine chills , suspense is continued and appear lurking
and menacing into dining room , hallway , basement and rooms . Great
loads of screams , shocks , exploitation and terror abound with the
usual poltergeists phenomenon caused by the weird entities . It's
recreated with magnificent make-up and high grade plethora special
effects which are frightening and horrifying the spectator . Writer
Leigh Whannell stated at the Toronto Film Festival that when he wrote
the film he had a list of horror movie clichés posted above him, so he
could avoid using them ; he said the first one was to make sure the
family moved into a new house once the haunting started . Eerie musical
score by Joseph Bishara creating a spooky atmosphere. Dark as well
atmospheric cinematography by John R. Leonetti ; a majority of the film
was shot inside Linda Vista Community Hospital, which also doubles as
the abandoned hospital that the characters visit .The film was well directed by James Wan and it was shot in just a few
weeks ; he even has a cameo on a computer wallpaper with Specs and
Tucker . Wan is an expert writer and filmmaker on terror genre as he
has demonstrated in ¨Saw¨ saga , ¨Dead silence¨, among others . James
Wan subsequently directed ¨The Conjuring¨ also starred by Patrick
Wilson , another terror film in which keeps it horror with yet another
haunted house film . And of course , his biggest success ¨Insidious¨ ,
it was followed by this ¨Insidious Chapter 2¨ . Furthermore , producers
are preparing ¨Insidious 3¨, as Leigh Whannell himself announced that
actor Dermot Mulroney will star in Insidious: Chapter 3, making for a
choice that many genre fans should love . This third film will be
directed and written by Leigh Whannell . Jason Blum and his Blumhouse
Productions, which produced both Insidious and Insidious: Chapter 2, is
producing the next installment along with Oren Peli and James Wan .
Steven Schneider, Brian Kavanaugh-Jones, Peter Schlessel, Lia Buman and
Entertainment One's Xavier Marchand are exec producing.
