5
Messy plot development and supporting cast

When I sat down to watch "End of Watch" I had no expectations. The town
I attend college in does not have a movie theater, so along with my
peers, I completely missed it in the box office. So, lacking any sort
of hear-say or recommendation, I cracked a beer and sunk into the
living room couch.I was immediately intrigued by the fast paced opening scene, and
impressed by the incredibly realistic banter between Pena and
Gyllenhaal. At first I enjoyed the home video approach to filming it as
it made the characters even more personable. Yet, when I discovered
that the gang members were also conveniently enrolled in extra credit
film classes, my confidence in the flick immediately dwindled.As the movie progressed, and the buddy officers scratched the surface
of several cases of criminal activity, it became apparent that the
abundance of disconnection would eventually culminate into some sort of
action and explanation rich finale. Little did I know that along with
the looming tragedy, disappointment was in the forecast.There were a few scenes in particular (Spoiler Alert) that seemed
puzzling enough to make a re-appearance. When the cops get a call
regarding missing children, they are greeted by a stressed out mother
and her rather nonchalant partner. The scene is very moving and well
done, yet when we discover the two children are taped up in the closet,
it is apparent that the boyfriend/husband/brother is behind their
disappearance. We are then left not knowing whether the man is
arrested, or just excessively fond of R. Kelley's renowned urban opera.
The following scene of Gyllenhaal getting his sweat on, backlit by the
city lights, is about as necessary to the movie as bringing a massage
chair on a camping trip would be. Although it becomes clear that this
particular happening, is merely used to show the intensity and
occasionally disturbing thrill ride that the boys and blue endure, it
makes the plot even more scattered.Another aspect of the movie I found to be quite distasteful, was Anna
Kendrick. Despite her awful character in Pitch Perfect, and avian-like
facial features, her acting was actually decent. Her personality linked
up quite nicely with Gyllenhaal's, yet the development of her character
was about as predictable as a Cinderella re-make. It is clear that she
is a vehicle used to create higher stakes for Gylenhaal's character.
The Marriage scene is fun, but anyone who has ever seen a movie, could
pause the film there and know that a baby will be on the way, by the
sh*t hits the fan for our police friends. The way I see it, her
character's role would be better developed verbally, leaving more time
to actually connect the criminal activity in the film.Despite the use of excessive scenes to develop the characters and shed
expository light on whit it might be like to enforce the law, the icing
on the disappointment cake was the under-usage of the black gang. After
Pena puts down his badge and scraps with one of the elder members of
the local bloods, David Ayer makes it clear that our dynamic duo earns
some street cred and favor with the local gang. It just so happens that
this gang is the rival of the local cholos, and the primary antagonists
in the film. When the cops dive a little to deep into the affairs of a
Mexican cartel, they become wanted men, and the previously mentioned
cholos take it upon themselves to get the job done. The bloods warn the
officers that they essentially have a price on their heads, but the
police brush it off casually, assuming that any living police officer
is on the list of undesirables for the neighborhood gang banger. Yet
when doomsday rolls around, Ayer is presented with an excellent
opportunity, to bring the blood gang into the climax of the film, and
possibly to get our dream team out of trouble and kill off a few of
their enemies in the process. Unfortunately they are left out and once
again the development of another set of characters becomes incredibly
irrelevant.Pena and Gyllenhaal are phenomenal throughout the film, and despite a
ton of hard to avoid stereotypes, the gang members are also well
portrayed. Overall "End of Watch" had a frustrating lack of exciting
twists and turns. Mix that with way too many filler scenes, and
isolated interactions and characters and you have a recipe for
mediocrity.
