1
Underlying Meaning???

I first watched this film by renting it from a Redbox. The rental is
only $1.50 and honestly the amount is so little I usually do not care
if I rent a bad movie but, I really feel like I actually wasted my
money on this film. At first this film seemed good from the trailers,
it seemed like a good twist on a thriller and it really piqued my
interest. So when I saw it on Redbox I was excited because I haven't
seen a good thriller in a long time. So when I got home and popped it
in my player after the first ten minutes I knew this film was going to
go downhill and had no end in sight. Keanu Reeves usually plays as a
strong, smart, and capable character in his movies; not a wimpy,
stupid, and really a down right moron. This fact alone disappoints me
because I am a Reeve fan and a little part of that admiration just went
away. The film started well, with him sidestepping their advances and
being seeing the girls as young and stupid, but in the bathroom scene
apparently all of that goes out the window just because they're naked.
Wow. As the film progresses it seems to become a slight against men, by
portraying them to be these idiotic, misogynistic, and sex on the brain
oafs that will do anything as long as there is a piece of "meat"
hanging in front of them. This becomes overly clear when the character,
"Genesis" has the line, "You all are the same" and "They never say no."
I understand that this is a film but to create something so bigoted and
dogmatic and think that it is acceptable; it really begins to bring to
light the morals and philosophies of the writers and producers. I know
that this will probably make some folks mad or angry but flip the
situation around. If it had been a woman on the bed getting raped by a
man, I'd put money on the fact that this movie wouldn't have made it
beyond the notepad of the first writer. We as a society tend to have
double standards that usually benefit one party or another, and I
completely understand why this happens and why it is bad. But to
campaign against this problem and to become a more accepting society,
movies like this are not helping whatsoever. I am not trying to suggest
censoring literature and media, but to have a film that is so one-sided
is very detrimental to furthering our society to become rational and
fair. Overall, I was extremely disappointed with this film. It will
only make the viewer angry and frustrated. I feel this film will only
please one particular group of people, the more radical feminist
groups. More liberal feminists will probably be angered by the movie
because it really puts a bad name on the movement, by making it seem
that this is what feminism hopes to prove. The intention of my review
is not one of contention and hostility but to give my opinion and
hopefully shine some light on the reasoning behind it. I just ask that
before you go and fire away a comment or a reply to this review, to try
and see it from a different my perspective, a 22 year old man that is
still trying to understand how the world works. Thank you. P.S. I use
the word "feminism" and "feminist," not as a derogatory remark or
slight, but just as a descriptor of a noble movement or person.
