9
One of My Most Compelling Theater Experiences

When my friend and I arrived at the theater to see this movie, another
friend of ours was already there saving a few seats for us. As we
approached to sit down, though, a few teen girls on his right jumped up
giggling and sat on either side of him. We didn't really know what was
going on, and decided to just take the next available seats. The girls
introduced themselves and seemed nice enough, even if a little
intrusive, so we decided to let it be. They ended up being the cherry
on top of one of the most fascinating film experiences I had in years.
I'll get back to this later.Anyway, Spring Breakers itself is a trip into the largely vapid and
hedonistic social lives of four college girls during spring break.
Desperate to escape the routine of their college life, the girls
attempt to pool their scant savings and run off to Florida for the
week. When they discover they have less than half of the necessary
funds to do so, three of them decide to rob a small diner. This is the
first in a series of escalating crimes and vice that follow through the
rest of the film.Now, as a nineteen year old college student, I will admit to regular
substance use. I believe I am this film's intended audience. Spring
Breakers is a film about saturation and repetition. We are constantly
subject to repeated shots of the same parties혰혰drunken crowds dancing
on the beach, girls awaking in a stupor to immediately take hits from a
bong, guys snorting lines off those same girl's bare chests. Everything
is drenched in bright neon colors and scored by endless droning
bass-noise, pop and house music. Even while the girls try to convince
their parents (and themselves) how fulfilling, enlightening, and
maturing their trip has been, Korine continues to cut to these shots to
remind us what the break has really been about. Ultimately the life
they are living in their Spring Break utopia has nothing to offer.
Though they revel in it for a while, two of the girls eventually
realize this and run home.The film's second act starts when the girls' party life comes crashing
down around them. Here enters Alien, a self-described hustler whose
goals are living large and being bad. Franco plays his character
flawlessly. He is a disturbingly real example of what lies at the end
of the girls' current path. Alien takes what he wants and doesn't ever
regret it ("Look at all my sh**!", he repeats in one fantastic scene).
When asked to show his sensitive side, he sings Britney Spear's
"Everytime", which is appropriately ironic considering Spear's life
seems to have been stripped of all dignity by the same forces that are
working on the Spring Breakers. In the end he is gunned down and left
to rot, with absolutely nothing to show for it.Now going back to my surprise companions in the theater. I think those
girls were exactly who Korine hoped would be tricked into seeing the
film: young teens who believed they were in for another fun party movie
that glorified the Spring Break lifestyle. Unfortunately, they seemed
to miss the entire point, that such a lifestyle really had nothing to
offer in the end. One of the most poignant examples of this was when
Alien mentions some of his friends are into double penetration. At this
point, the girl sitting between two of my friends wrapped her arms
around both of them and shouted "Holla!" This was extremely
uncomfortable due to the fact that she was a minor and we were not, but
it also helped drive Korine's point home. The girls sitting with us
were incubating to become exactly the same troupe that we followed in
the movie. Later on, when we watched Gucci Mane "make love" to a
big-booty woman in graphic detail, the same girl tapped me on the
shoulder and suggestively whispered, "Did you like that part?" None of
your damned business little girl.Spring Breakers puts us up to a mirror and demands, "is this really
what you want to be? Is this really a fulfilling lifestyle?" We are
subjected to so many party scenes that they become exhausting, and
their surface appeal quickly fades away. It seems many people are
complaining that the movie dragged on, that the characters were hardly
developed and their motives hardly explained, but I think that was
exactly the point. By dragging on the right parts and subjecting the
audience to such saturation over and over, the parties turned from
glamorous to banal and offensive. The two girls who leave Florida both
have short shots of them expressing sad exhaustion and a hint of relief
at their escape. The audience, whose only escape from Spring Break is
during these short moments, is allowed to share in this relief. I don't
think the girls were supposed to be individuals with rational motives
and depth; that was the entire point of the movie. I admit I found it
hard to even remember their names, but that just reinforced the idea
that they could all effectively be replaced by another set of
boobs혰including those from the audience혰and the same story would unfold
(to say nothing of the actresses performances, which were all fine).Spring Breakers is a reflection of today's young adults taken to the
extreme. Though I do not let my own partying impede on my school or
work life, I still felt a little more disgusted with my lifestyle than
I did when I walked into the theater, and I think that's all that
Korine wanted. Franco's character often droned the words "Spring Break,
Spring Break forever" throughout the film, subtly intoned to mock their
intention. Do we really want this forever?
