10
Best Film This Year

You need to see this movie. That could be this entire review, but I
think I should describe how amazing this film is. Unlike most summer
movies, the writing is fantastic, keeping me and the rest of the people
watching with me attached to the movie and its characters even when
they are just talking in a diner or something. Also unlike most other
summer movies, the movie does not attempt to create artificial tension
in the form of fast cuts or stupid action scenes, it creates tension in
the form of dialogue and sometimes in the form of brilliantly filmed
action. It should be noted that the cinematography in this film is
truly amazing. The cinematography captures the desolateness and sadness
of the area of West Texas that the movie is set in. There are also many
wide shots, which looked like they were filmed with drones which also
added to the beauty of the filming. The music also adds to the western
feel of this movie. The writing of this film is where it really shines.
The writing is captivating and it is so natural, for the area. The
banter between both pairs of characters (the brothers and the rangers)
is very entertaining in that you can almost feel their relationship and
the history of it. Also, I have to say, the writing for the side
characters, who are only in the film for their respective scenes is
even better. This is the first time I have ever cared about some random
waitress who is only in the film for 90 seconds because their writing
is masterful. Also, the acting is definitely some of the best I have
seen, Ben Foster and Jeff Bridges both really shine in the film because
of their stunning acting. The acting helps in that when Chris Pine and
Ben Foster are mid- heist you can really feel the stress when they get
into situations that one or both of them are not comfortable with. In
closing, this film has amazing writing, cinematography, acting, pacing,
everything. This film is just beautiful and you really need to see it,
like yesterday, it is easily the best film this year and a major
contender for Best Picture, Best Director, etc.
