8
A future holiday cult classic combining comedy and horror

"Krampus" is a cautionary tale for the families that fight and bicker
during the holidays. The film really takes a deeper look into how
American families have lost the true meaning of Christmas, which is
meant to be a time of giving and joyful celebration with loved ones.DIRECTION/PACE The opening scene and following setup scenes of "Krampus" define the
way Christmas is celebrated in America. The slow motion scramble in the
mega store and the following awkward, dissonant exchanges between the
family peer into how meaningless and materialistic American society has
become. The following family scenes also address the loss of wonder
that one experiences when growing up, such as disbelief in Santa. In
addition, most of the family members complain about spending time with
their cousin counterparts. These scenes drag on for longer than I would
have liked.The film transitions from family scenes to thriller scenes. Krampus
appears in a fast paced action scene. The first attack occurs and
signals that it's time for the horror to start. From this point on the
film continues to build up tension as more and more frightening things
happen. This build up period is lengthy and has some frustrating
moments that lag the action to increase suspense. The main action (which is humorous at points - dependent upon the
audience) actually takes place in a short amount of time. It is intense
all throughout and will have you jumping and laughing at the disturbing
creatures. This is followed by the climax of the film - the up close
unveiling of Krampus. The falling action is a "flight" from the horrors
and the ending is quick, but satisfactory. There is a strong message
and not some cheesy cop out. The ending is unexpected, despite what
some other reviews would lead you to believe - lots of hindsight heroes
out there.Ultimately, I felt the pace and direction could be improved. Less
setup, a little less tension building, and a little more horror
action+gore would have helped balance out the film. "Krampus" provided
the horror excellently and I'm pleased it isn't just another "jump
scare" film. It blends thriller, horror, and comedy well.CINEMATOGRAPHY As said before, the slow motion brawling in the mega store is
brilliant. The film uses lots of low, closeup, and unique angles that
work well in the horror genre. The camera during the outside chase
scene where Krampus is jumping from roof to roof makes it exciting -
the camera is aimed perpendicular and up close to the character with
Krampus in the background. There is also a nice closeup shot of a used Santa candle that had two
streams of red candle wax running down the head as if Santa is
bleeding. Excellent use of foreshadowing with characters lurking in the
background. The haze of the blizzard added to the intensity and "fear",
meanwhile use of underexposure in some scenes created apprehension.
Overall, the cinematography in "Krampus" is well done and stays true to
the genre.WRITING The plot of the movie is an innovative twist on the Krampus folklore in
an American setting. The characters are believable and mostly stayed
true to themselves. The only real break in any character comes from the
grandmother who goes from speaking only German to English suddenly.
There is not much character development to be had. There is no "growth"
from the events that happened other than characters regrets of
hostility. Again, the cautionary tale aspect is really where the
message is delivered - the end result of their actions.EDITING "Krampus" flows well throughout the course of the film. Scene
transitions were not jarring and there are no bad "cuts". The film does
an excellent job with use of CGI elements. CGI is used intelligently
and as an enhancement of the scene, never replacing it. Where CGI fails
often, to me, is when it's overused for beings that need to move
"naturally". This is not an issue in "Krampus"!COSTUME DESIGN The costumes are spot on. All the characters are wearing traditional
Christmas garb - big coats, hats, gloves, knit sweaters, etc. They even
went far enough to distinguish between Tom's family (Adam Scott) and
Howard's family (David Koechner) wealth gap. All of the evil Krampus
"helpers", the "sleigh", the "reindeer", etc. are mostly real props
that were expertly touched up (with CGI). I really enjoyed the close up
scenes of Krampus, there is great attention to detail to make him look
like the real deal - hooves and horns and all!SET DESIGN "Krampus" takes place in the perfect modern day Christmas movie
location - what I would call a "Home Alone" suburbia. The location not
only fit the film perfectly, but it looks just like a frozen nightmare.
The house, creepy snowmen, the blizzard, the recently abandoned/dead
house, etc.SCORE/SOUNDTRACK "Krampus" features popular Christmas tunes serve as background music or
in a creepy way, either to add suspense to tense moments or "altered"
to create a horror effect - such as played with an odd instrument or
particular emphasis on certain notes (such as holding them longer) that
distinguishes from the original piece. The score emphasizes the movie
and moods of the scenes so well it melds right into every scene.As a whole, "Krampus" does a lot of things right. There are a few
shortcomings in the character writing and pace. The story accomplishes
what it was set out to do and still very much entertains. The film is a
great break from the usual Christmas garbage while still conveying a
very important message - don't lose sight of the spirit of Christmas!
(In a non-religious point of view).
