10
A Hilarious And Dramatic Ride Worth Taking

Dark comedy is very difficult to accomplish. I would almost say it's
hard to pull off then regular comedy, because you need to be able to
keep people invested in the dramatic aspect of the film, while still
keeping them laughing throughout the majority of the duration. Director
Martin McDonagh has matured as a filmmaker over the years, starting off
with In Bruges, which was pretty much a flat-out comedy, to Seven
Psychopaths, which placed him a little further into the spotlight, but
I must admit that Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is not only
his best film to date, but also one of the best films I've received the
pleasure of witnessing all year. From laughter to genuine tension and
heart, this is a film that's pretty much perfect all around. Here is
why I can recommend this film to everyone. After the tragic death of her daughter, Mildred Hayes calls out the
local authorities on three billboards, publicly stating that they're
not doing their jobs and not a single arrest has happened since the
death of her daughter. While publicly displaying this is upsetting to
some, she sees it as a point being made. Through some very cleverly
written humour throughout the entire film, levity is brought to the
table in times of sorrow, making this a very easy movie to watch.
Although the story itself is quite depressing, this film is written in
a way that will still find a way to make you smile. From the very first few frames of this film, you can tell the tone will
be handled perfectly. Written and directed by Martin McDonaugh with
pure class, you can tell that he was very passionate when bringing this
film into fruition. Every line of dialogue either progressed the story
along, developed a character, made the audience laugh, or provided deep
insight into the event of the murder itself. While not having the the
bearings of a conventional murder mystery, many viewers may not like
the way this film concludes, but in the context of the movie as a whole
and everything it's setting out to accomplish, it really does have a
realistic and true finale. It's arguable that some of the law enforcement officers play just as
significant a role as Mildred does throughout the film, being pretty
much present every time a revelation occurs, but I gravitated the most
towards Officer Dixon. I've always been a huge fan of Sam Rockwell, and
his character here is one of the most essential to this story, set of
being there from beginning to end, trying his absolute best to be of
any help. While Woody Harrelson's portrayal of Chief Willoughby is by
far the most important to the story at hand, it's the characters around
him that drive him to his actions throughout the course of the movie.
The characters are truly what make this film as likable as it is, and
they're all wonderfully drawn. Overall, when looking back on my experience watching Three Billboards
Outside Ebbing, Missouri, I find myself not being able to wait until
its official theatrical release to watch it again. I found this film to
be stellar in every sense of the word. From a noteworthy performance by
Francis McDormand, devoted secondary performances, a screenplay that
will have you consistently laughing, while also being emotionally
involved with the serious story line at hand, and pulling the audience
in with its subtly composed score, everything about this film is worth
praise. This was a huge surprise for me and I can't recommend you
checking it out enough. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is a
fantastic piece of modern cinema.
