2
I wanted to like it

I went into Silent Hill: Revelation hoping to be proved wrong. Sure, I
knew the move was going to be a bit gimmicky (being shot in 3D and
all), and the trailers hadn't looked too promising, but as a fan of the
Silent Hill series, I thought that maybe I'd still enjoy the film.
Unfortunately, this movie is riddled with so many flaws and defects
that it completely falls flat.The movie is based on the third silent hill game, following Heather
Mason as she tries to learn more about her past but more importantly
just survive as a series of nightmarish events draw to Silent Hill. The
movie tries to follow the plot of the game, but deviates frequently in
ways that make little sense. The game's plot was already somewhat
muddled and disjointed, and its translation into a screenplay has only
made the plot more nonsensical and difficult to follow. Events seem to
occur at random, characters are left underdeveloped, and there is no
logical progression to the story. The film flounders around for a bit
before leaving viewers with an unsatisfactory climax which tapers off
with an awkward closing scene.The acting is pretty poor, and the screenplay isn't much better.
Dialogue is stilted and awkward. Carrie-Anne Moss and Kit Harington in
particularly do a very poor job of delivering their lines, and are
completely unconvincing. To be fair, Sean Bean and Adelaide Clemens do
a half-way decent job considering the lines they are given. But overall
the acting and writing are both beneath what you would expect from your
run-of-the-mill horror flick.The special effects are pretty well done, and the 3D does make for some
interesting moments. Silent Hill's iconic falling ash and dense fog in
particular benefit from this treatment. Most of the time though, the 3D
is just used to amplify the movies considerable gore. While the special
effects are pretty solid, they just don't make up for the poor plot and
dialogue which really are sub-par, even by horror movie standards.I really wanted to like this movie, but even as a fan of the material I
found myself unable to appreciate it. My advice is to save your money
and rent it when it comes out on DVD.
