2
Definitely not what it says on the label

I just got back from watching Brimstone and it made an impression, in
fact I'm rather upset for wasting 2.5 hours and now having vivid
flashbacks of sickening scenes. So, where to begin... First mistake
that I could not believe had been made this day and age: a person with
part of their tongue cut off cannot speak or make any vocal
sounds...seriously?! *Unnecessary sign language ensues for dramatic
effect*It was supposed to be a "western, mystery, thriller" which seemed
interesting. Unfortunately the plot line on this site was the only
mystery about this film. A thriller then? Not unless you find endless
amounts of mostly pointless violence thrilling. I generally don't mind
violence when it serves a purpose to the story, as the here imitated
Tarantino is such a master of. There is so much of it and so graphic
that it's shocking (as probably intended) at first, but not that much
further down the line you just shut off and wish this pile of misery
ends quickly... which it doesn't. It seems endless. The story is simple
and could easily have been told in 1.5 hours, so why did it have to be
so ff-in long?! If I had to describe the genre: drama, with western and
horror elements. The variety of violence was the only surprising thing
about this film, just when you wonder whether this or that kind of
torture will be graphically portrayed it's provided. #spoiler# There's
no subtlety or nuance to be found anywhere. I find the characters over
the top, the story line boring, motives and background story lacking
and no real sense of purpose with the time-line mix-up and unnecessary
scenes. The moment she sees the reverend you know it's going to end
with her killing him - by the by, how did he get himself into that
position and how on earth does he keep finding her?! Nothing makes
sense-. The anti climax of our main character FINALLY setting fire to-
and shooting the baddie is only worsened by her anticlimactic death
soon after: this film's final lash to the viewers raw back. No sense of
the promised sweet revenge or a sense of well earned peace after a
lifetime of misery. No. Just our heroine giving up after some
douchebags come to claim her because "her past has run up with her".
This film will leave you feeling abused; don't watch it. If you're
looking to feel sad at the end of a gripping drama with a feminist
message and star cast, go see Million Dollar Baby. If you want
violence, blood and gore with a great cast, story line and wittiness,
go watch a recent Tarantino.
