9
A terrific (true?) story. 87.5+%

This movie is based on a book written by a relative of some of the main
characters depicted in this movie...just looked up Wikipedia, and the
author was Matt Bondurant, whose grandfather, Jack Bondurant, is called
"the runt of the litter" of the Bondurant brothers featured in this
tale of moonshiners in the age of Prohibition in America. That book was
called "The wettest county in the world" and the title refers to how
much illegal alcohol was produced in that area. The novel was adapted
for cinema by Australian alternative rock icon Nick Cave.The story concerns how the Bondurant's once cozy relationship with
sympathetic rural police is changed by the arrival of a corrupt Chicago
law enforcement officer, Charlie Rakes (played by Australian Guy
Pearce), who wants a cut of the Bondurant's illegal liquor business.
Forrest Bondurant (Tom Hardy) is not one to cave in to these demands.
Things get ugly, but there is some romance in this movie too.Whilst being a terrific yarn, the quirky central performances won't
garner any Oscar attention, I wouldn't think. Guy Pearce's dandy/fop
take on Charlie Rakes is highly stylised and amusing before he just
becomes a plain horrible character. Tom Hardy's take on Forrest
Bondurant incorporates many big cat like purrs, which also amuse.Set in America's South, you mostly hear Southern drawls, so if Cave's
screenplay is any good, you will miss a chunk of it unless you can
decipher the more unintelligible dialogue in this movie...which I
couldn't, but I understood enough of it not to lose the plot. Early on
in the film, the reality of life in the South is not elided...you will
see signs of racial segregation...literally.Even though this movie doesn't have a lot of violence in it, when it
does occur, it is bloody and horrific...both in what you actually see
happen and the horrific implied violence which you do not see...except
for the aftermath. These moments can be very confronting...it's horror
movie territory.Since the movie is based on a book by a member of the Bondurant family,
you have to wonder how much is fictionalised in order to paint the clan
in a positive light. Watching the end of the movie, concerning a final
confrontation with Charlie Rakes, you have to wonder if it really
happened that way.Whilst not a 'chick flick', there are some romantic moments. There's a
little bit of comedy too...I'm not sure if Pearce's and Hardy's
performances are deliberately amusing, but apart from that aspect,
there are some other amusing moments in the movie. I also liked the
singing you first hear when Jack enters a church to be close to a woman
he fancies (Australian actress Mia Wasikowska. There is a big
Australian contingent in this movie. I did see Noah Taylor in the
credits but don't remember seeing him in the movie).Apparently this movie has things in common with Cave's original
screenplay for the Australian movie "The proposition". I haven't seen
that movie but if you like either movie, it might pay to check out the
other if you haven't seen it.I could see this movie winning an Oscar for best picture or adapted
screenplay.A ripping yarn.
