10
One of the best movies I have seen all year.

I absolutely loved every minute of this movie, but let me start out by
saying that I'm not a fan of any of the first three Bourne movies. I
will also say that because this story is so different to the previous
movies, it would have probably been better to give it a different
title. There didn't need to be any reference to Bourne at all.One of the highlights for me was the level of accuracy in the CIA
search team. It was surprisingly refreshing to see satellite feeds from
across the world portrayed with their accurate limitations. This made
me engage with that part of the story on a much deeper level, and I
really felt the tension as the search team grew closer and closer to
their target.The chase sequence is one of the best I have seen. Manila was an
amazing choice of location. It had it's one cheesy moment, but I was
holding onto my seat the entire time. I enjoyed the lull after the
first part of the chase, and I especially liked the very sharp and
conclusive ending. The acting was absolutely spot on.I loved the details that helped to set the tone for certain scenes. For
example, the Australian character at the Manila laboratory really
helped to create a general overtone of semi-incompetence, which was
crucial to the belief that their break-in and escape was actually
plausible.I loved the storyline, and found it very refreshing after seeing too
many movies that deal with revenge or uncovering conspiracies. Perhaps
it says something about my personality, but I really enjoyed the
premise that all they wanted to do was get away, and live in peace. I
thought the suspense was really well managed, during the scene where
the border guards were checking their passports. The final scene of the
movie released all of this built-up tension, and I think it was a
perfect, happy ending. The ending reminded me of the movie 'Limitless',
how the character's world can collapse at any moment, but they make it
to the end, and are well-prepared to deal with any threats in the
future. So there you go. One 10 star review in a sea of disappointed critics.
