4
Not as bad as it could be and sure not as fun as it wants to be

Well first off, I don't like Adam Sandler movies...or rather: most of
his movies are pretty dumb and a few are descent comedies. With
Ridiculous 6 he has made a rather weird thing. It is both an almost
good movie and really horrible. The big problem for this movie is that it is supposed to be a comedy. A
classic Adam Sandler Comedy with his trusted friend Rob Schneider (a
person i have always hated), farts and a bunch of weird characters.
See, I don't find this movie very funny! Yes it has its moments and it
has some great characters (more on that) but all in all I didn't find
it funny. Most of the beginning I was thinking of just see something
else because the jokes was just poorly delivered or just to weird and
unfunny. That whole eye-joke was just disgusting! I could not see the point in
that joke and the same with the shitting Burro. Is a donkey with
diarrhea really a good place to start your movie? Further it lacked any sort of motivation for the characters. Yes they
hear about their dad...but meeting a guy that out of the blue Tells you
he is your brother and he wants to help your dad by robbing people, is
that motivation enough? OF COURSE NOT! These brothers could have been e.g. hurt by Frank e.g. If he had shot
Chicos finger off so he was a bad piano-player or that he was
responsible for Herms lack of speech. This would make them have a
grudge against him and a reason why they would find him themselves to
settle the score when Tommy showed up. It feels a bit undeveloped and
makes the first half rather bad.This is actually the bad things i have to say about the movie. The rest
is actually good.The movie is, in some way, a descent western. Surprisingly enough it
works better off when not trying to be funny and let the characters act
as if they were in a western rather than a comedy. The story works,
despite the lack of motivation, and gets to be just as every other
western. When they begin their heist and the bad guys chase after them
the movie feels more serious and less as a comedy. it sounds stupid, but It is not trying too hard to be funny, it
actually gets to be funny when it just lets the story play out. Steve
Buchemi and Vanilla Ice makes some great cameos. They get to play their
roles perfectly and gets just enough space to make the scenes funny.
These great cameos gets to play out their scenes with no real
interruption by fart jokes or other horrible things and it actually
helps making Rob Schneider likable and, do I dare say it, funny at
times! This is actually why I like the movie in the end. despite its problem
with being weird and unfunny in the first half, it ends with being more
of a western and a bit more serious. I heard someone mention that
Sandler tried to make this movie for about ten years. This could be the
reason why it is not a typical Sandler comedy. It seems like a
combination of projects as he was split between making a total comedy
like Seths "A Million Ways To Die In The West" and a spoof of
Tarantinos upcoming "The Hateful Eight" but mixed them together because
of constant rewriting.So all in all it actually ends at 4. Not as fun as it wants to be but
not as bad as it could be.
