5
5/10

Directed by horror veteran James Wan, "The Conjuring 2" picks up 6
years later of its predecessor and finds Ed Warren (Patrick Wilson) and
Lorrain Warren (Vera Farmiga) struggling with their marriage in the
face of Lorrain being haunted by a demon whilst they accept to travel
to London to help a single mother (Frances O'Connor) and her four kids
whose house is being haunted by a malicious spirit trying to corrupt
the younger sister (Madison Wolfe).When the first "Conjuring" came out the out-pour of love for it left me
absolutely incredulous, I will admit it had a couple of good scares and
overall empathetic characters, but the handling of the true story
aspect of the film was disastrous, the direction wasn't particularly
inspired and it was basically not scary to me and relied too heavily on
what are only jump scares that are a little less noticeable because of
how James Wan masks them.Still, I went into "The Conjuring 2" very open minded and wanting to be
proved wrong, but most of all, I wanted a good horror ride filled of
tension and scares. Just as with its predecessor, I find myself
disagreeing with the love for this film. What I got was an overlong,
bloated and occasionally offensive film. Normally if I find a movie to
be offending my intelligence I go really low on it, yet "The Conuring
2" has enough moments to distract me from the very brief ones in which
I found the filmmakers to be talking down on the audience and not
treating them as equals.Just as with "The Conjuring", the haunted characters we are presented
to are well fleshed out. They aren't by any stretch of the imagination
as deep as a "Chris MacNeil" in "The Exorcist", but they do have a
dynamic that's interesting and you can't help but stick behind them as
they battle with their struggles because of how ordinarily they are
presented to you and for my money there is a pretty clear inspiration
on Wan's part from a much superior recent horror film: "The Babadook".
There are some striking similarities in how the weight of being a
mother is represented to you and whilst the inspiration is a little too
evident, it really does work in getting you behind a mother
continuously on the verge of breaking.Moreover, there is a strange bipolarism in the way this film is shot
and edited. It looks like it was done by two different people. I'll
talk later about the dullness of a half of the film, but there is some
really inspired stuff in certain points and what makes it frustrating
is that repeatedly when the film is having these great moments, it
decides to cut away from them and go for some cheap horror tricks that
result completely ineffective in the face of what was being built up.
Indicative of this is a moment, at the start of the second act more or
less, where the little boy goes down the house in the middle of the
night to drink and we see him drink from the outside, on a steady shot
showing just two windows in the house, it is a very simple shot, but in
that moment a whole lot of possibilities open up and sprinkle amazing
tension. And then what do the filmmakers decide to do? Cut to the
garden outside where a swing is creaking.That is the kind of stuff that happens throughout the movie that left
me baffled. Not to mention, the ridiculous use of jump scares by Wan. I
honestly and unfortunately don't get why he is hailed as the greats
horror director of our time. Really this sh*t is supposed to be scary?
My suggestion to everybody is to watch "Rosemery's Baby" and get a real
taste of what scary is, there are one, two at best, jump scares. What
Wan does here is simply make everything culminate in a jump scare of
some sorts, visually, with sound or dialogue, it's always there and by
the third scare in I had given up on it. He is trying to build tension
in some ways which always result cheap, because they are only there to
serve the final moment and not the story. At no point I felt stakes for
what was happening, it was all just so predictable and uninteresting
from a horror point of view, I found it to be very unsophisticated,
culminating in a finale that I had very little investment on, once
again it was having good moments, but they were all overcome by the
dullness of their surroundings.Which brings me to the next point: this script is a mess. With the
exception o the above mentioned empathetic relation with the characters
who are haunted, the rest of it terribly mishandled. Vera Farmiga gives
a cringe worthy performance because of the ridiculous arch she is asked
to handle. The mythology is all over the place, it is co chaotic and
unclear it becomes offensive: there is no logic to what happens, which
demon is which and why they collide together, I have literally no idea
what was going on, who was haunting who, it was a disaster and just as
messy was the handling of the true story element which isn't ever
addressed in the film and asks the viewers for a suspension of
disbelief that is just preposterous.Whilst there is respect for the filmmakers in what they are trying to
do and for some of their inspired ides, I am very sorry that this is
the type of horror that is being hailed at the moment and wouldn't
recommend this ride to people.
