1
An ugly film inside and out - incompetently directed

A good friend with a love of horror films literally could not find one
person to attend a screening of The Green Inferno with him, so I
knuckled under and joined him. He owes me big time.For those not in the know, The Green Inferno, Eli Roth's latest
steaming pile of fecal matter, centers on a group of well-meaning
college student, led by Ariel Levy, who venture into the Amazonian
jungle to protest the destruction of the rain forest and its indigenous
tribes by ruthless corporations. On the way back, their plane crashes
into the jungle and they find themselves at the mercy of a terrifying
tribe of cannibals. Oh, you can just cut the irony with a knife.To say that I am not a fan of Eli Roth would be an understatement. One
of the great tragedies of modern cinema is that filmmakers of true
talent cannot seem to get funding for worthwhile projects, but somehow
a hack like Roth manages to get a national release for dreck like this
"film". This is Roth's homage to that long overlooked subgenre – the
cannibal film – and grindhouse epics like Cannibal Holocaust. Given
that 98% of filmgoers have no knowledge of these films or much
knowledge of this subgenre and that no one has exactly been clamoring
for its resurgence at the cinema, I am hard-pressed to figure out how
Roth got any interest drummed up here, other than the most deprived of
gore fanatics.Forget things like story or sympathetic characters, Roth has no time
for such foolishness. His energies are all reserved for how graphic and
stomach-turning he can make his gore. This story pretty much unfolds
like all his others. A group of young people exit their comfort zone in
a foreign environment and pay the penalty. He seems to have some
personal axe to grind against "armchair activists", but is completely
clueless that the very act of these people traveling into the unknown
to protest deforestation makes them anything BUT armchair activists. If
the targets of the tribe's animosity were the corporate representatives
behind the destruction, one could posit that this was some kind of
vengeance tale against corporate greed, but such a theme seems beyond
Roth and company. He seems to actively dislike anyone who takes a stand
on an issue and wants them punished. His feelings are pretty much
vocalized by the roommate of the leading lady, who chastises her for
activism and preaches introversion and selfishness. Or at least it
seems so – but it could also be the distractingly horrible performance
by Sky Ferreira, who speaks as if joining us from another dimension
where speaking is barely a hobby. Additionally, he seems to find all
foreign people objects of suspicion or terror.Not surprisingly, Roth cannot make us care about what happens to anyone
in this cast. An actor's director he is not. The only face I recognized
was Daryl Sabara (formerly of Spy Kids) as the stoner in the group. His
big moment is flashing some full frontal nudity, while nearly having
his privates attacked by a tarantula. He should fire his agent
post-haste. Lorenza Izzo has the central role and given that she is the
director's fiancée/wife, it is not surprisingly that her acting is
lacking. The only other role of note is Levy as the leader of the
group, but given that he plays the part from the start as a major
sleaze, it is hard to fathom the heroine's attraction to him and it
renders the "twist" of his motivations completely unsurprising.For the duration of the running time, people are torn apart, have their
eyes gouged out and eaten, are vivisected, etc., apparently all to
Roth's glee. When you think it cannot get much worse, Roth actually
introduces the potential of female genital mutilation for good measure,
apparently proving there is just no gutter too low. He punctuates
everything with unwelcome bursts of puerile humor, such as when a vegan
realizes she is eating her friend or someone has explosive diarrhea. Oh
the hilarity! Meanwhile, the film sports some of the ugliest
cinematography in recent memory.This is a film that is truly ugly inside and out. Roth seems to
actually detest the people who populate his films, especially if they
have good intentions. In fact, he may well detest people in general
since he unleashes films like this godforsaken mess on them. It is
incompetently directed and written – Roth has no notion of build-up or
sustained suspense. He fails to grasp that there is a huge difference
between scaring a viewer and repulsing them. Rumor has it he has been
hired to helm the big budget version of the bestseller Meg, which is
head-scratching since Roth fails to prove he can handle a big budget,
actors, or even the very basics of storytelling. One can only assume
that film will just feature two hours of Roth's camera focusing on chum
and innards floating in the water because that is all he has
demonstrated he is capable of.
