9
Quite an achievement

"Cloud Atlas" is nearly three hours in length, but I wasn't bored for a
minute. The film alternates between six very different stories quite
seamlessly, creating an exhilarating experience. It's part sci-fi, part
historical drama, part love story, part comedy. Any number of things
could have gone wrong with the film. All the different genres it brings
together might have failed to coherently mesh. But they did, and it's
something to see.The film takes us on shipboard in the 1800s, where a young man forms an
unlikely bond with a stowaway, a runaway slave. It tells the sensitive,
melancholy story of a promising young composer in the 1930s – separated
by prejudice and misfortune from his lover, a man named Sixsmith. It
also brings us to 1973, where an intrepid reporter finds herself caught
up in a web of murder and intrigue. In the present day, the film offers
up the comedic tale of a publisher on the run from a gang of thugs.
Plunging into the future, it shows a dystopian vision of Seoul, South
Korea that is comparable to "Blade Runner" and a primitive
post-apocalyptic Hawaii.Linking these stories together are the simple thematic elements of
love, compassion, and a love for liberty. The correspondence between
the composer Robert Frobisher and Sixsmith depicts the plain beauty of
love as well as any film I have seen, as do tender moments between the
central characters of the portion of the film set in the futuristic New
Seoul. Even in the blatantly comic segment with Jim Broadbent as the
publisher, a deep passion for freedom and human dignity shines through.All the actors do a great job in their multiple roles. You can care for
Tom Hanks one moment as a villager in a future Hawaii, and then revile
him in the next scene where he plays a truly despicable doctor. The
best performances are given, however, by Doona Bae and Jim Broadbent. I
think they surpass all the rest. Bae plays a "fabricant", a kind of
clone designed to serve humanity. Her gradual awakening to her own
self-worth, to the subjugation of herself and of her people, is
beautifully and movingly conveyed. She is heartbreaking in this role.
Broadbent is equally excellent as the publisher Cavendish. His
expressive face and popping eyes are ideal for comedy – and he's
hilarious. But he's more than that. Broadbent infuses the character
with a sense of sorrow and weariness at key moments. Cavendish has
depth, a history, regrets from his past. Broadbent brings all this out
brilliantly without losing his comic touch.Everything in "Cloud Atlas" comes together to create a film I found
thought-provoking and highly entertaining. I don't hesitate to
recommend it.
