5
Another Self-Help Book Gets the Romcom Treatment

"What to Expect When You're Expecting" is another unfortunate example
of what happens when real self-help book advice is applied to the plot
of a romantic comedy. Having just a few weeks ago suffered through the
joyless "Think Like a Man," we have yet again a strained, unfocused,
badly developed relationship farce that focuses more on slapstick gags
and verbal jabs than on genuinely funny scenarios. This is a shame
because I have no doubt that pregnancy and parenthood can in fact be
quite funny – that is, in the hands of filmmakers who have a deeper
understanding of actual people. There is virtually no truth to any of
the characters in this movie. They're more like byproducts from a
particularly bad sitcom pilot. A select few are so bizarre and
shockingly out of place that they seem to have been transported from an
alternate universe.Taking place in mostly in Atlanta, the film takes cues from recent
romcoms like "Valentine's Day" and "New Year's Eve" by dividing itself
into several interconnecting vignettes. All of them feature couples on
the verge of having a baby. There's Jules (Cameron Diaz), a trainer on
a weight-loss reality show obviously modeled after "The Biggest Loser,"
and her boyfriend, Evan (Matthew Morrison), a dancer on a reality show
obviously modeled after "Dancing with the Stars." The two met when
Jules was the celebrity contestant. Although she's pregnant, her can-do
attitude motivates her to continue as a trainer. It also inflates her
superiority complex, as she believes only she knows what's best for her
baby. The biggest argument she and Evan have is over whether or not
their son should be circumcised. Discover for yourself who's for it and
who's against it.There's Wendy (Elizabeth Banks), the owner of a baby boutique who has
just published a kids book on breastfeeding, and her husband, Gary (Ben
Falcone), who was once a contestant on Jules' weight loss show. Wendy
is not feeling the glow of pregnancy; she's constantly in some kind of
physical pain, and because her hormones are all out of whack, she has
become overly emotional. Gary is constantly in competition with his
father, a former racecar driver named Ramsey (Dennis Quaid). As it
turns out, Ramsey's new wife, a much younger woman named Skyler
(Brooklyn Decker), is pregnant with twins. Even in the advanced stages
of her pregnancy, Skyler remains gorgeous and unburdened with physical
ailments such as a weak bladder, swollen ankles, and an aching back.
It's almost as if she's showing off to Wendy.There's Holly (Jennifer Lopez), a freelance photographer who
specializes in baby portraits, and her husband, Alex (Rodrigo Santoro),
a music producer. Unable to conceive, they decide to adopt a baby from
Ethiopia. Alex isn't sure he's ready to be a father. Seeking advice, he
becomes privy to a secretive band of dads known as The Dudes (Chris
Rock, Thomas Lennon, Amir Talai, and Rob Huebel), who walk around
pushing strollers and carrying infants in baby slings. Their two rules
of conduct are: (1) Whatever The Dudes talk about must stay between
them; and (2) there can be no judging each other for "the stuff that
just happens" to their kids. In other words, no squealing about obvious
signs of parental irresponsibility. For some unknown reason, all four
of them idolize a muscle-bound jogger named Davis (Joe Manganiello),
who wows them every time he does shirtless pull-ups.The single weakest subplot features two young food truck owners locked
in a turf war. This would be Rosie (Anna Kendrick) and Marco (Chace
Crawford). It's a reunion of sorts; they dated in high school, although
Marco's reputation as a player repeatedly got in the way. Decency
prevents me from giving away too much of this subplot, although I will
say that, given the fact that this film is supposed to be about the ups
and downs of traditional pregnancy, these characters stick out like a
sore thumb. They would have been much better off in a film devoted
entirely to their relationship – provided, of course, that it was left
in the capable hands of intelligent filmmakers.All the births happen on the same night and in the same hospital. I
can't begrudge the director or screenwriters a little dramatic license.
I can, however, blame them for allowing drastic shifts in tone; just
when we think it's all about desperately broad birthing gags, we're
suddenly broadsided by a near-tragic turn of events. If you're not
skilled enough to walk the fine line between comedy and drama in a
single scene, it's probably best you just stick to one or the other.
The problem with "What to Expect When You're Expecting" is that neither
genre is handled particularly well. Any potential bouts of laughter or
tears are at the mercy of manufactured scenarios that no couple or
parent is likely to find relatable. A good comedy knows how to connect
with its audience. A bad one does goofy things with only the hope that
someone will laugh. Guess which category this movie falls into?-- Chris Pandolfi (www.atatheaternearyou.net)
