2
Just two weird guys trying to out-weird each other.

This is my first review. I had to make an account after watching this,
and after seeing how many great reviews this movie got.This movie truly sucks. This has spoilers, but read them, because I
will probably save you time that you'd regretfully waste by watching
it.First, this guy, Aaron, is hired to film another guy who has cancer,
Josef, and the video will be for his wife when he dies. The whole film
is taken from Aaron's hand-held camera, so yes this is more
found-footage, as I'm sure you were already aware of.The first shot is a terrible close-up of Aaron in a car, driving to
Josef's house, explaining where he's going. Already you know the movie
will be amateur from that very first shot. Next scene, we are at
Josef's house, and of course, Josef isn't there. You know what's next;
Aaron gets back in his car, and whoa! Josef scares him. Josef is very
friendly, unusually so. But as the movie goes on, he gets straight up
weird. This is the whole point of the movie...but you're not afraid.
Josef seems like a child who is not capable of much sentient thought,
much less the brutal, psychopathic mindset of a murderer, who he
inevitably becomes.Anyways, as the movie goes on, Aaron and Josef have a good
heart-to-heart about their lives, and at some point, Aaron is so
freaked out by Josef that he drugs Josef in order to try and escape the
house. Read that again. The innocent cameraman happened to have
date-rape drugs with him, which he brought at the very first instance
of driving to Josef's house. What? Aaron gets a call from Josef's
"wife," who is actually his sister. She tells Aaron to leave and that
Josef has "problems." Problems? Oh, you mean the fact that he murders
people? I guess that might split the family apart, but why isn't Josef
in jail? The rest of the movie is Aaron being stalked by Josef, and
haunting dreams of he and Josef doing this weird dance involving peach
fuzz while wearing a rabid wolf mask. Please do not ask what that is
about, because I don't know. Aaron tries to call the cops to report a
stalking case, but they dismiss the very first words out of Aaron's
mouth. How convenient.Aaron gets murdered. You know it's coming, but you honestly can't
understand how it could possibly come to that conclusion. Aaron tries
to play the whole "okay, I'll see what you're going on about Josef, and
we'll end this" stance, EVEN THOUGH Josef sent him videos of digging
his grave, and describing how beautiful murder is to him. I really
don't feel bad for Aaron getting murdered, because he is an idiot.Really. Don't watch this movie.
