4
A little frustrated.

Okay first of all, i'm a little disappointed as to Simon not being
turned into a rat. It was one of the funniest parts of the book! I get
that the whole book would have been too long but I believe that that
part of the book was worth the extra few minutes, he would have turned
back into Simon after the fight if there wasn't enough time to show him
in the institute. Second of all, Valentine is suppose to have white hair (I don't really
care about this detail it's more about how he was played) He is suppose
to be a sophisticated, well spoken, SMART villain. You are suppose to
think "How is HE the villain?!?" He's suppose to be really charming but
have a darkness to him. Instead he looks like a biker who wondered on
the set and was told "Oh you're the villain."Clary is NOT suppose to be drawing runes until the next installment,
but I guess i see why it was necessary for her to be able to draw runes
in that scene. But it was just another confusing aspect to this movie.Jace is suppose to be a really rude character. He's NOT suppose to be
love struck over Clary every ten seconds. It's not suppose to be really
obvious, yeah you get a few little indications here and there, but it's
not the main focus in his mind. There was a lot more focus on Clary and Jace than Alec and Jace. They
definitely should have explained that a lot more. Even though I had
read the book, even I said "Wait, what?" when Clary said that Alec
loved Jace because we didn't have any indication before that other than
the little tiny mumble Alec said to Clary which was "Stay away from
Jace." There were two more indications after that which was Alec
talking to Jace and also Alec pushing Clary against a wall and
threatening to kill her if she doesn't leave. Maybe that scene with
Isabelle should have happened later on in the movie. We didn't have any indication as to Luke being the leader of the pack,
it was just a call to other werewolves who were working in a store to
be honest. Luke was really confusing in the movie if you didn't read
the books, he's a father figure to Clary. He's basically like her
step-dad. ALSO! What was with Hodge telling Valentine to tell Clary and Jace they
were related?! That was a waste of time, and it gets you wondering "Are
they related? Are they not?" It's suppose to make you gasp and say "Oh
no! They are related!" They should have just shown Valentine telling
Jace and Clary, Hodge was completely unnecessary in that part of the
film.The end scene was a bit weird and cliché. Them riding off in a
motorcycle that 1. Was not mentioned as to why he had one. Or 2. How he
got it (Which was on the roof of Dumort Hotel which would have been a
nice bit to add into the movie.) I guess somethings need to be cut out of the book but I think these
things were a bit necessary in order for people to love the movie as
much as the book.The only things I loved about this film were the creatures, (They were
really well done and creepy!) Jocelyn, (she was really well cast and
well acted and very true to the books) and the sets. (They were just as
I had imagined if not, better!) All in all, a good film. This is just what annoyed me as I have spent
the time to read the books and I love all the characters and the sets.
For people who haven't read the books. It's not too confusing, although
some parts in the movie you go "What just happened?" I recommend seeing
this with someone who has read the books to explain those bits. Please
go see this movie if you have read the book, it was extremely exciting
to see what and who I have imagined on a massive screen. If you
haven't, go see with someone who has read the books if you want to
really understand the series without reading the books.
