7
Terrence Malick's Girls Gone Wild

Faith, played by Selema Gomez, and her three very close friends plan to
escape their boring college dorm lives to attend a massive Spring Break
party. In order to pay for their getaway, her three friends commit an
unthinkable act of terror. Their Spring Break vacation turns out to be
a non-stop party of drunken drug use and sexual perversion that lands
them in prison. This is when Alien, played by James Franco, bails them
out and a new type of party begins.With a dub-step softcore porn music video opening sequence, it is
uncertain if Spring Breakers is glorifying the demoralizing activities
portrayed or if it is a satire. Even when the film is not flashing to
what looks like stock footage of a Girls Gone Wild Spring Break special
and we are with the girls, the framing seems to have been done by a sex
addict. This will be one of the most uncomfortable experiences Selema
Gomez's fans will ever experience. For parents, this will be an
absolute nightmare. Younger male audiences, on the other hand, will
think they've found their new favorite movie. When the girls are
introduced to Alien the film feels like it gets a new director. The
feeling of a Girls Gone Wild narrative feature film is lost and we are
filled with a great sense of dread. Who is this guy who calls himself
Alien? We even find ourselves afraid to find out what he has planned
for these young girls he has bailed out of prison.As we continue through the second half of the film, it becomes very
clear that we are in fact watching a satire. A horrific and effective
satire. This is done though exposing the character of Alien and much
credit must be given to James Franco, this is him at his best. Through
the course of the film we go from fearing him, to laughing at him, to
feeling sorry for him. The film is worth watching just for Franco's
performance. The girls do an excellent job as well. These are easily
two of the most frightening female characters ever put on-screen.Spring Breakers is written and directed by Harmony Korine, the writer
of Kids and director of Gummo. If you've seen anything he has written
or directed you already know what you are in for. It has the core of a
Natural Born Killers story wrapped in layers of what would be if
Terrence Malick directed Girls Gone Wild. What ends up becoming an annoying distraction is the repetition of
dialogue we hear over and over again, playing in a loop. It's
understood we are in the girl's shoes, things are spiraling out of
control and the editing helps get that across. Some of it works but in
the end, we've heard the same things so many times it is as if Korine
is hammering the message of his satire into our heads, almost desperate
to prove it has a point. Through the story it's meaning is made clear,
no reason to over-use certain Malick-like editing techniques to
over-state what the story has already made obvious.The core story is genius. The way in which the story is told is split
between things that play out like a master at work and a new filmmaker
still experimenting.
