5
A very typical sequel, but enjoyable laughs.

So as far as sequels go, this is a very typical one. I went to see Boo
2 because though Tyler Perry movies are not really my thing, I actually
enjoined the first Boo, so I took the chance that I would enjoy the
second one.I totally did, too. It's not as good as the original. As much as I
found the original funny, it also had an attempt to show family values
in it that was not lost on me. This time around their attempt (If there
was one cause I did not see it) was literally taken out to make more
room for laughs. In a lot of ways it made the film like the second
episode of one of Perry's shows (Which I like more than his movies), as
it seems nobody learned the lesson from the first Madea Halloween.Case in point, like the original, Boo 2 is about Joe trying to
discipline his entitled daughter, Tiffany. Once again she defies her
overbearing father's wishes in order to go to a party at midnight in
the woods at a camp where a bunch of people got murdered. Now I
understand the natural urge for a teenager not to want to listen to her
dad, but when your aunt is someone like Madea, you would think you
would think twice about this woman coming to track you down, especially
after what happen in the last movie. Like the last film, Boo 2 focuses on Madea and her friends running into
terror and danger while trying to get to Tiffany. The film likes to
Parody current themes in horror like with influences of Korean horror
and it also pokes a nod to old school Horror with the film taking place
at a camp and the underage teens being hunted by a man with a mask and
a chainsaw.Overall, I much prefer the more light hearted Tyler Perry movies.
Sometimes his stuff can be too over dramatic for me, but I seem to like
it when he goes for straight up Sitcom style on us and that's Boo 2!It's crazy and filled with laughs and no matter where it fails compare
to the first one, we are there to laugh and that's what makes this
sequel enjoyable.http://cinemagardens.com/?p=1756
