1
Critical Failure

The Snore Awakens! This movie is a poorly done rehash of the original
trilogy and conveniently ignores everything that everyone knows about
what happens after Return of the Jedi. 30 years later and everyone is
doing the exact same thing? Did time just stop while everyone was away?
Throwing in mediocre acting and poor character development (learning
everything you need to know about a character in 15 seconds flat! Well,
in Poe's case, they even outright tell you what you need to know in
writing before you see him for the first time. how efficient!) which
detracts from the movie even more.Scene after scene are stale and predictable with you saying to yourself
over and over "hey, this is another repeat of X scene, oh, that is
another repeat of Y scene!" and it gets truly yawn-worthy. Hunting for
droids in the desert just like the beginning of the episode 4. The
x-wings barreling down the ravine like the first death star. Han and
Chewie setting charges to lower the shield like the moon of endor.
Black leader breaching the structure and flying around inside blowing
up the interior like the 2nd death star. Walking into the strange bar
just like Mos Eisley. /facepalmNot to mention the entire movie is built on coincidences. Oh look, the
first order shows up right when you are handed the map. Oh look, your
droid just happens to pass by Rey. Oh look, the millennium falcon just
happens to be sitting there. Oh look, Han and Chewie just happen to be
there to find you. Oh look, Luke's lightsaber happens to be right there
for you to find. Oh look, you learn how to use the force in 20 seconds
flat and escape. How handy, Kylo just happens to be there. What a
coincidence, Kylo doesn't remember that he is a dark Jedi and can
simply burst Finn's organs with a single word. It just never ends.It just makes my head hurt like you can't imagine. All they did was
flip-flop content from the original star wars around. It isn't an
orphaned boy named Luke, now it's an orphan girl named Rey. The desert
planet is no longer tatooine, it is now Jakku. The droid sidekick isn't
R2-D2, it is BB-8. Instead of fighting for the rebellion, now it is the
resistance. The enemy isn't the empire, now it is the First Order.
Their superweapon isn't a moon, now it is a planet. It doesn't destroy
planets, but entire star systems. It isn't Darth Vader killing the
mentor Obi-Wan, now Kylo Ren killed Han. It just keeps going and going,
the train wreck only gets worse the longer you watch.And we aren't even getting into the subliminal messages/programming.
Rey's big phallic black staff that she carries everywhere? The
demonized white male villains as angry supremacists? They could have
been a little less blatant about it. I know it is important to push
certain agendas in Hollywood, but give me a break.Summary: They wiped their butts with star wars. Congratulations.
