10
After a long wait...very good to be in Sin City again!!!

There is no justice without sin....a very promising tag-line.Sin City 2 encompasses 5 stories, that follow some famous, and other
not so famous residents of Basin City.Just Another Saturday Night, The Long Bad Night (Part I), "A Dame to
Kill For", "The Long Bad Night (Part II)", and "Nancy's Last Dance". Just Another Saturday Night, documents in a very funny way, how Marv,
(Mickey Rourke) acquired a certain Bernini coat. The Long Bad Night (Part I) is a two part story focusing on an entirely
new character in the Sin City universe, named Johnny (Joseph Gordon
Levitt), a gambler, with a secret mission.A Dame to Kill For, the main story: reveals that years before "The Big
Fat Kill", Dwight McCarthy (Josh Brolin), works as a P.I, and is trying
to contain his inner demons, and would give any thing to get out of the
numbing hell that his life has become. Dwight receives an unexpected
phone call from his former lover Ava Lord (Eva Green), who left Dwight
four years prior for a wealthy tycoon, Damian Lord (Marton Csokas),
pleading for his help. It should be noted that Ava Lord, (Eva Green,
totally stunning), has ulterior motives. Dwight with assist from Marv,
get more than they bargain for. That Ava has lied, about her husband,
thanks Dwight before shooting him. Marv has a huge fight with Manute
(Dennis Haysbert), which is certainly destined for the history books.
Marv and Dwight escape to Old town, Dwight's old flame, Gail (Rosario
Dawson), recognizes him and saves his life. With the help of Gail and
the deadly assassin Miho (Jamie Chung), Dwight undergoes reconstructive
surgery on his face and plots his revenge.Dwight (with his reconstructed new face), accompanied by Gail and Miho,
poses as Wallenquist's man from Phoenix. Inside Ava's estate, however,
Manute sees past the new face and captures Dwight. Gail and Miho strike
from Dwight's car, and Dwight shoots Manute with a hidden .25 he had up
his left sleeve. Six bullets fail to kill him, and Manute aims shakily
at Dwight as Ava unexpectedly grabs one of Manute's guns, shooting
Manute several times. She attempts to convince Dwight to pair with her,
and that the pain he suffered revealed his true intentions, but Dwight
shoots her mid-kiss, and she dies in his arms.The Long Bad Night (Part II) returns to the character of Johnny ,
Realizing he left Marcie unprotected, Johnny flees to her hotel, but
finds the Senator waiting for him along with Marcie's dismembered head
and hands. Again, the senator lets him go. Intent on taking down Roark,
Johnny scrounges a dollar from a sympathetic waitress (Lady Gaga) which
he uses to regain enough money playing slots to buy his way into
Roark's game the following night. Playing a card shark's con, Johnny
folds his first few hands, allowing Roark to taunt him about his dead
mother. He once again cons Roark into going all in, and then reveals
his winning hand. Johnny taunts his father, reminding him that
tonight's story of how the same man beat him twice will follow him for
the rest of his life. His vengeance completed, Johnny smiles resignedly
as Roark dismissively shoots him in the head, commanding his men to get
rid of the body.Nancy's Last Dance is the most tragic of the Sin City yarns. Set four
years after "That Yellow Bastard", Nancy Callahan struggles to cope
with John Hartigan's selfless suicide. Needless to say she is driven
insane, and sets out to get her revenge, on Senator Roark.
Heartbreaking work from Jessica Alba.Please don't make us wait years for Sin City 3, and other Sin City
movies!!!!
