8
Hilarious Christmas Horror Film?

Krampus is a horror/comedy Christmas film. A genre buster it is, but it
is most certainly worth a watch. The story follows a young boy, Max,
who is having a bit of a bad Christmas season. His parents are
fighting, his sister growing older and more distant. And his Aunts
family, a group or red necks who love guns, drinking, and fighting,
have come to town. After he has had enough, Max tears up his letter to
Santa, in frustration over the holiday season. Unfortunately, this
summons Krampus, a demon anti-Santa who comes to take Max's family to
Hell. What follows is a comedic Christmas/horror, that is quite a good
time.As mentioned, this is more comedy than horror. The family dynamic is
overblown to the point of satire. The horror is gimmicky and
self-referencing. This film is just plain fun. The horror aspects are
fairly weak (one of the lesser points of the film) but this is more to
due with the tongue in cheek humour over anything else.This film also features some excellent sound design and visuals. The
CGI was weak in the film, but the practical effects used in the costume
were fantastic. Krampus and his minions are very creepy looking,
channelling the folkloric look of films like Pan's Labyrinth, and
nailing the German Paganistic origins of Krampus while making it
accessible to unfamiliar audiences. The sound in the film was also
excellent. The reverberating thumps of Krampus on the roof, the snarls
and demonic sounds, were all deep and resounding. The howling wind of
the unnatural snowstorm adds excellent background and setting.I really enjoyed this film quite a bit. It was suitably funny to work
well as a comedy, and although the horror was not heart stopping, it
tapped the feeling of films like Poltergeist; it was more outrageous
than spooky, and mixed the two genres well enough to work. The addition
of excellent sound, practical effects, and the humour the cast and
story brought to bear, made this a fun and highly watchable film for
the holiday season. If you are getting sick of watching the Grinch over
and over, give this one a try for a refreshing and fun holiday film.
