3
Intelligence Level Descending

Spoilers Ahead:Fellow detractors, I address the millions of you, let's grant them the
vacuous character development that is quintessential within this genre.
Please, you thought the Star Wars Prequel Trilogy had great acting and
character development? I was amazed Hayden Christenson had the power of
speech. I still think he might have been generated by CGI. Readers, do
me a big favor, watch the first few minutes of Outland. See what
happens to a human body, or even half wolf half man exposed to zero
pressure atmosphere. See, it is not just the frozen temperature, our
atmosphere presses our veins down into our skin. Without atmospheric
pressure, your veins swell, distend and then explode. I swear, in
Guardians Of The Lobotomites, we saw Tape Boy, without that incredibly
protective face mask, out in space for five minutes with a slight bit
of frost about him. Here Wolf Boy is in the vacuum for three minutes,
flies hanging on to the ship going through the wormhole. See, this is
not suspension of disbelief; this is mental retardation. I will grant
you both the vacuous acting and skin deep characterization. The script
itself is proof of Spencer's Theory Of Reverse Evolution. He thought
after a certain period evolution reverses backwards. How many people were shooting at Wolf Boy and his hyper rectum gas
boots? Then an entire fleet of ships were unable to get him? Oh, he
rammed the last one, sorry, my bad. Does his posterior emit some kind
of chili gas shield we cannot see? That must be why is voice is
inflection free, all his energy is redirected into emitting a gas
shield all about him. Jupiter's family: brothers, when you put the bong
down, here is a tip. Dramatic contrast can be achieved without making
her family disgusting, dirty, gross looking, loathsome Neanderthals.
Now, why is Bean's house filled with bee hives? It did not have
anything to do with her effect on bees did it? Yes, what a coincidence,
did the person that wrote this recover from that massive stroke? Did
they get the bullet out of the lobe of the brain that controls writing?
Yes, sore throat boy lives in a shielded refinery in the middle of
winds that rotate at nearly 600 miles per hour. Now, if you had the
technology to locate in the Jovian atmosphere why would you pick an
area whose winds shred you to pieces whenever some Wolf Boy decides to
do a kamikaze attack on you? Do you think the designers might have
anticipated that before building it? They have no weapons firing up at
attacking ships?See, I think people who think this is brilliant should let me know when
they go out driving. I want to wait until later, just to be safe.
Characters, who are ageless, that trust mendacious royals with a level
of stupidity one usually finds in a day care center? Yes, Titus, do we
think he is lying to her? Gee, do you think Wolf Boy and Janus can
believe his offer? Oh, he betrayed them!! How'd that happen, he seemed
so sincere? I gave the movie three stars for the best effects in any
movie equaled commensurately with the worst acting, writing and
directing. It is perfectly symmetrical. Now, I know Wolf Boy's Gas
Skates said they erase the fact they took out like half a city; could
the party pooper ask one small query? Forgive me, is this 1921? How
fast would the city having been blown to crap be all around the world
on the internet, cable and satellite? The movie is why I am a theistic existentialist and not a Christian.
Believe me, the Deity did use evolution, do not believe me? Watch this
movie, please, have mercy. Do these people vote? Time for that synaptic
scanner before registration please before we all get killed by these
atavists. Wolf Boy, I know ladies, he sets your pants ablaze. Well, if
you date him, I would drive the car if I were you. Keep him away from
anything flammable. Yes, no shirt and no brain either. I haven't seen
that glassy eyed stare since I visited intensive care. The movie is not
the problem; the people who see Solaris or 2001 here; that is the scary
part. Please, put down the comic book and open a real book.
Intergalactic Pile Of Gigantic, Steaming, Stinking Poop.
