3
Tries hard switching between genres

The Family is a 2013 black comedy-action-crime-drama by director Luc
Besson. Having a good past track record of great enjoyable films, this
film was more than definitely excited among fans of Luc Besson for a
successful comeback. Well within the film, the first time we meet the
Manzonis (known as the Blakes after relocating), they're arriving at
their provincial home in Normandy, France, after an exhausting 11- hour
car trip. Everyone is eager to settle in after the long ride, but before Giovanni
(now "Fred Blake- DeNiro") can relax, he has to bury the corpse he has
stashed in the trunk of the car. Over the course of the next 24 hours,
Maggie (Michelle Pfeiffer) has blown up a grocery store, Warren has
concocted a plan to hustle the bullies who gave him a beating on his
first day of school, and Belle (Dianna Agron) has suffered a crush over
math substitute who's agreed to become her personal tutor. It's a
fairly lighthearted setup for the obvious chaos to follow. The Family is categorized as a comedy but it's clear this film is more
of a black comedic style. The problem is even with black comedies, they
(the good ones) are generally funny. However, this film doesn't contain
laughs, just more unnecessary scenes of violence and pointless action.
This film is quite similar to We're the Millers, but obviously this is
more of an action-violent crime mob film, as to We're the Millers is
straight forward comedy. Another problem with this film is the
characters. They weren't as interesting as they could have been,
especially the mother, son and daughter. Robert DeNiro is great as his
role, though the other members (Warren and Belle) felt as if they were
robots, bland acting. For character study type films like this, the main characters need to
be at least likable or enjoyable enough to root for. This isn't the
case here. Tommy Lee Jones also appears to be miscast as he looks more
stressed and tired throughout the picture. In the end this film tries
being a comedy and a crime film but fails at being both. Would not
recommend.
