5
Meh.

Okay, so very few people were confident about this remake. The original
has such a huge fan base that a reboot seems like blasphemy to most.So how does this hold up? Well, it looks like butter, it at times
tastes like butter, but brother, it ain't butter. Believe it.The film lacks something and I think I know what it is; there is no
real villain. Instead of building up a super-villain for Murphy to
fight to the death with, it toys with different characters as his foe,
never really committing to one or the other. Kurtwood Smith is an evil
son of a gun in the original because he shoots Murphy to pieces. Its up
close and personal. In this, well, the guy that car bombs (lame) our
robotic cop gets about 2 minutes of screen time with very little back
story. Frankly, you just don't care.The plot seems more concerned about Murphy trying to cope with becoming
an amputee and him and his family learning to accept his new
circumstances, which frankly, when you see what he looks like without
the armour, is just disturbing. Instead of being an awesome action
flick, you just feel bad for the guy. The reality of the situation is
just too harsh in its portrayal and you end up thinking maybe he would
be better off dead. Do you want to pay good money to question your ideological values
towards quality of life or do you want to see robocop go toe to toe
with a man who shot him to s***? I know what I'd buy for a dollar. Also, on a side note: Samuel L. Jackson needs to stop being in films.
While his appearance at first is welcome, by the end it feels very
cheap and unnatural. The anti-American war effort message starts to get
a little forced down your throat and before you start screaming that
I'm a flag loving American, I'm a Brit, and even I felt the satire was
a bit in your face.The film shouldn't upset people too badly, it could honestly be much
worse and it does have some passable moments with a couple of good nods
to the original. Just don't get your hopes too high.
