8
All these years she's lived, but she's never had a life...

The Age of Adaline isn't the first movie to tackle the subject of
immortality, nor will it be the last, but what it does is offer
something a bit different to your typical movie about immortals. For
one thing, no vampires here. For another, while most of these types of
films are seen through the eyes of a male character, it's a woman by
the name of Adaline Bowman (her birth name, although she goes by many
others) who is the focus this time around, which allows for a unique
spin on things. Time and again we've heard from broody vampires and
such how much of a "curse" immortality is, but here it's applied to
what is essentially a real life scenario - albeit with one slight
supernatural element. It poses the question that if you were just a
regular human being, except you outlived everyone, what would your life
be like? Here we see that it would be a life on the run, leaving
everyone you know/may get to know behind for fear of them finding out
your secret or becoming a specimen in experiments. You'd never be able
to settle anywhere - which is exactly Adaline's dilemma. Portraying the central character is Blake Lively, who most would know
mainly from Gossip Girl, but has actually been very good in a number of
films which I feel she hasn't gotten enough credit for. Dismissing her
based on her role in the show (or Green Lantern) would be doing her
quite the disservice, as she has shown that she is capable of much more
than those two roles allowed her. Apart from having a classical look
that allows her to fit the different eras her character lives through
and makes her physically perfect for the role, she also conveys an old
soul inside a body that's forever youthful. The character of Adaline
dresses, wears her hair and speaks like someone from a different time,
but it's Lively who makes this believable. She feels like someone who
has become tired of running and having to give up the life she wants
because of something she never asked for. She requires new fake IDs
from Tony (Richard Harmon - who seems to be in *everything* I watch
nowadays), her constant companion is a King Charles Spaniel (who does
the cutest little slide EVER), and apart from having the time to learn
braille and many different languages, there seems to be very few
upsides to her situation. Thanks to a rather intrusive - and, quite
frankly, unnecessary - voice-over, we learn that Adaline's first
husband died - which is rather sped through via narration so we can get
to what caused her condition - namely that, like cough syrup is to the
Flaming Moe in The Simpsons, the secret ingredient here is...car
accident + electricity (combined with snowfall, apparently). We
experience first-hand what it's like to be in a car accident as she's
driving, which is a very effective way of having it play out.Adaline's daughter, Flemming (played as a young woman by Cate
Richardson, and then later/for the bulk of the movie by Ellen Burstyn),
is the only person in her mother's life to know her secret. Their
exchanges are quite entertaining but at the same time very emotional,
as is Adaline's close friendship with her dog. Let no one ever accuse
Blake Lively of not being able to generate emotion, as her scenes with
her best friend certainly require a tissue/hankie/snot-rag handy. One
day she catches the eye of Ellis (Michiel Huisman, from Game of Thrones
and Orphan Black) when he sees her reading braille (but knows she's not
actually blind). The two develop a nice chemistry when he pursues her
in an elevator on New Year's Eve. For the most most, Ellis is likable
enough (though does walk that fine line between persistent and
stalker). We see why she tries to keep her distance via flashback to
meeting a young man named William (Anthony Ingruber) - who, it turns
out, happens to be Ellis' father in the present (Harrison Ford, in one
of his less gruff/grumpy roles of recent memory). The resemblance
between the two actors playing William in different stages of his life
is uncanny, and kudos to the younger for being able to mimic the
older's facial expressions and voice. We also meet the rest of Ellis'
family, who soon realise something is up with the new girl he's brought
home thanks to William's reaction to her. Despite trying to throw him
off, he - like his son - is persistent and Adaline has to come to terms
with whether she will stay or reluctantly do what she's always done:
run away. It's to Lively's credit that the character's
actions/motivations remain clear and she never comes across as a bad
person for what she does. The costumes, sets and everything that goes into bringing the past eras
to life is done with precise detail. The score is effective but subtle,
much like the humour. It's not in-your-face, but there are a few laughs
to be had sprinkled throughout which lighten the mood and prevent
proceedings from becoming too gloomy. If there's any negatives to the
movie, it's firstly the rather annoying voice-over. Yes, it's there to
help explain things, but I think we could have figured it out for
ourselves/drawn own conclusions. Secondly, the attempt to explain what
in one breath is described as "magical" and in the next is a bunch of
science babble seems rather contradictory. Not only will most probably
tune out during the attempt to explain the pseudoscience involved, but
it feels somewhat out of place here. There's no need for it, it's not
going to make the concept any more believable. They could've just left
the premise as it was, asked us to suspend disbelief and I'm sure most
would've gladly done so. Still, I enjoyed this throwback to the earlier
era style of Hollywood movies.
