7
Rise of the Guardians - Because why not have a Russian Santa, Australian Easter Bunny, Hyper Tooth Fairy, Silent Sandman and a Depressed Jack Frost?

Rise of the Guardians, by DreamWorks Animation SKG, is a fun and
exhilarating film, set in the world of children's beliefs.Jack Frost is the fun and "icy" protagonist in this film, who has
always sought out the answers as to why he is like he is - A guy that
no one can see, except the Guardians, North, Sandman, Tooth, Bunny, and
the bogeyman, Pitch. He soon finds out that the Man in the Moon has
chosen Jack to be a new guardian to protect the children of the world,
but refuses, but soon learns that sometimes friendship and a little
responsibility goes a long way.This is a great film, for starters, and I especially love the opening
part, where Jack is sitting in the moon. This film has great special
effects that wowed me when I first saw this film. Everything from the
ice, to the fur on Bunny. This film is definitely pretty. But, the film
has great voice talents, suiting the characters very well, and they
suite the personality of each character well too. Viewers can tell that
a lot of hard work had gone into the film, as everything, even the
relationships between the characters, has been well established.Alexandre Desplat is the music composer for this film, and has designed
the music very well to fit the moods and areas of each part of the
film. But, despite what a good job he did, I believe that John Powell
may have done a better job, but, I understand that he was most probably
working on the musical score for How To Train Your Dragon 2 at the time
this movie was being developed/created.This film is perfect for kids in the stages of believing in Santa,
Tooth Fairy etc. as it is bubbly fun with these well known childhood
figures.Though this is an enjoyable film, it is aimed more towards younger
audiences, and is more bubbly and fun than serious, and does not show
as much of a lesson about friendship etc. as some of DreamWorks' other
films, such as How To Train Your Dragon. I also believe they should
have developed more on Pitch's character, especially around the time
between when the guardians came, and the main part of the film.Overall, I give this film 7/10 Stars, as I believe it is enjoyable, but
could maybe have more of a moral to show for, and maybe suite all
audiences better, rather than young ones.
