7
Danger on the edge of town

Five pre-middle-aged male friends are drawn to Newton Haven, the site
of their failed dozen-pub crawl as students in 1990. They're led by
Gary King (Simon Pegg). He's the one who couldn't move on from that
night; couldn't get a job like them, or get married like them.
Reluctant revelry and bad-tempered banter ensues, before the gang
discovers that the residents of the town have changed. That is, they
have BEEN changed...The World's End is considerably better than the ostensibly similar This
Is The End, a super-indulgent American comedy which mistook f-bombs for
humour and name-dropping for satire. Edgar Wright's film is indulgent
also, but at the service of audience enjoyment, as opposed to the
enjoyment of the players. The script is surprisingly dense and
intricate, many of its jokes arriving bittersweet. In an era when so
many comedies are heavily (and lazily) improvised, it's refreshing to
watch a tightly woven story unfold for once.The action scenes are given equal attention, lovingly choreographed
like some kind of slapstick dance. Chief pugilist is Andrew, our
sort-of-hero, played by Nick Frost with remarkable agility. This
instalment is far less bloodthirsty than its predecessors - more Scott
Pilgrim than Shaun.The rest of the group is made up of Paddy Considine, Eddie Marsan, and
Martin Freeman. The performances are all top-drawer, although it takes
time for their individual personalities to emerge. But then, the fact
that they are now practically indistinguishable may be the point - for
all their disapproval of Gary, they are the ones playing it safe.What's most impressive about The World's End is the fact that it's
actually about something. Nostalgia is easy to indulge but difficult to
deconstruct, but this film genuinely aspires to explore the idea of
selective memory - as with a bad hangover, our memories tends to return
in subjective spasms, and the truth is only accessible by gathering
multiple witnesses. And the truth isn't always what it cracked up to
be.The World's End is, for me, the best of the "Cornetto Trilogy". Highly
recommended.
