9
Two socially awkward people find unexpected love

Maud Lewis today is one of Canada's best-known primitive painters혰quite
an accomplishment for a poor, chronically ill woman from a townspeck
between the Bay of Fundy and St. Mary's Bay. This charming film,
written by Sherry White and directed by Aisling Walsh, tells her story.
At least in the way that biopics do, leaving you wondering, was Maud's
husband really so prickly? Did they really live in a tiny one-room
house? Further research indicates the answers to those questions are
probably not and yes. Maud suffered from painful juvenile rheumatoid
arthritis, which may have stunted her growth, and an equally painful
awkwardness in social interactions. In marrying Everett Lewis, she
finds a man even more emotionally and socially stunted than she is. I
can't say enough about how beautifully Sally Hawkins and Ethan Hawke
play these odd characters. Physically, it had to be a taxing role for
Hawkins, because Maud walks with difficulty and, as time passes,
becomes more and more bent over. But a wide smile comes readily to a
woman who can look at a window and say, "The whole of life, already
framed, right there"혰both to Hawkins and in photos and film of the
real-life Maud. They find each other when Everett looks for a woman to
cook and clean his one-room house while he runs his fish-peddling and
junk collecting businesses. Maud is looking for an escape from under
the thumb of her judgmental aunt. When he advertises for help in the
general store, this tiny woman appears on his doorstep. She brings
order to the house, but Maud's real desire is to paint. She starts by
decorating the walls of Ev's house, then scrap construction materials
he's brought home. From there, her career as an artist blossoms like
her paintings, but since they charge about $5 per picture, it never
makes them much money. Maudie is an uplifting story about a person who
made the most of her gifts and whose efforts were recognized in her
lifetime, far outside their Marshalltown, Nova Scotia, home. Because
she had modest goals혰"I've got everything I want with you, Ev.
Everything."혰she found tremendous satisfaction and joy in her life,
despite its challenges. (Many of Maud Lewis's paintings are now in the
Art Gallery of Nova Scotia, as is the Lewises' actual house, restored
after the Gallery acquired it in 1984. In May 2017, a Maud Lewis
painting sold at auction for $45,000.)
