6
A funny animation but with little heart

Rating-6/10Hotel Transylvania is an animated movie that has laughs, a nice style
and some good people involved in the voice cast. Now the film is only
OK and really isn't good or more nevertheless it is fun and should
entertain the majority who view it. There are many good jokes and
although a lot are physical jokes, it plays well and some really can
get you going with stomach hurting laughter.I felt it was written well and is the basis of the funny business in
all fairness, and although not being the tightest of scripts, still the
jokes come across thick and fast. As I said before the film has a lot
of laughs but the writing does lack depth and although will please in
my opinion, it won't be a totally memorable experience, especially for
parents maybe watching with kids.Another thing that maybe the script does or that the director does it
give the film very little heart, maybe even none at all. It isn't sweet
and even at times it can try,but it still falls flat on it's face. The
problem they have in that area does hinder it quite a bit and also a
massive reason this won't be remembered as much as other animated
films, and although still OK on my account, no more than that.The voice cast as I mentioned are good and Adam Sandler, Andy Samberg,
Selena Gomez and others are well cast with humour flowing through there
voice pretty well. I have to say after a little while you do start to
forget who the cast actually are with people such as Sandler becoming a
forgetful after thought which helps in the humour as you actually laugh
at him. I also liked the voice of Steve Buscemi who voices Wayne the
werewolf and he is very funny and the basis of many funny moments.The animated style is nice, it isn't quite what I would call the top
notch kind of animation but it is still really quite nice. I found the
movement is well done and although the movie is very very fast and
characters kind of hit the wall, literally, it still looks very nice. I
also really loved the sets involved and yet again they look very nicely
done, I think with the addition of director Genndy Tartakovsky who
himself is also an animator, you get a good team to sort out the way it
looks.I think with this movie anyone can watch it, not only the kids but also
the adults and even though I have seen some people say this strictly
for kids, I don't believe they are right and it fine enough for anyone.
Don't expect it to be unfunny seriously, I went in thinking maybe this
will be very poor but in truth as I have said it is OK, so lets move on
to my conclusion. So overall the length of the movie is good at a steady time of 91
minutes, it fits in everything it needs too and doesn't over do it
either. I think also overall, as I have mentioned a million times
already, it is funny, and funny enough to be OK and well worth a watch
from anyone who really wants to see a good animation with a nice style
and quite a few good laughs too.
