1
Perhaps the worst major motion picture produced in the 21st century.

For those who enjoy wasting their money and time watching bad movies,
this movie will be a joy. But for those who value artistic excellence
and high quality entertainment, you are now warned: stay away! This
movie is a cinematic disaster. One could attribute this tepid result to
poor acting, but that would be charitable because there is no acting.
The acting isn't even cheesy; it is non-existent. Except for Mel
Gibson, every member of the cast is merely reciting lines. Some of the
so-called performances are downright shocking in their shallowness.
Perhaps the most egregious example is that of Antonio Banderas. His
clownish performance in this movie has to be the nadir of his career.
Arnold Schwarzenegger is a shadow of his former self. It could also be
said that the movie lacks a compelling story. That too would be giving
the movie too much credit. What is supposed to pass for a story is so
unoriginal and so lacking in depth as to render it superfluous. The
actors recite lines, but the lines do not form a story. No character is
ever developed enough to warrant empathy or any other audience
reaction. If only the cast were playing caricatures of their former
roles, then maybe that would have generated some excitement or at least
laughs. But sadly, they're not even caricatures. The movie does include
several scenes with unintended humor, but this movie is not a spoof. It
is a serious attempt to present an action and adventure motion picture,
and the attempt fails. If this movie was played for laughs, then maybe
there would be something positive to write about, but that would have
required that the cast actually be comical and act and not just show
up. There's no point in assigning blame for such a poorly produced
production; it does not matter. Over-the-hill action actors may have a
place in cinema, but this movie is not their venue. Give them a good
story, solid direction, and interesting lines and maybe the result
would be satisfactory. It happened with the Wild Bunch (1969); there's
no reason why it can't happen again.
