2
Embarrassing mess of a Film

Before anyone says, it's Taken 3, what do you expect? I expect people
who make millions of dollars as supposed storytelling to perform the
fundamentals of basic storytelling, that's what I expect.I remember Taken 2 being disappointing, but I don't remember it being
as bad as Taken 3, a film that is full of nonsensical moments. From the
opening scenes, you just know the screenplay was written by Besson &
Kamen over a weekend in their Beverly Hills mansion, and by the closing
scene, you know that is exactly what happened. What I don't get is how Neeson and Whitaker allow themselves to deliver
such tripe. Virtually nothing in this film makes sense, I won't go into
too many details, unless you get distracted by MTV editing, you'll be
shaking your head literally every other minute. But the last scene in
particular literally made me shout out at the TV. Neeson is seemingly framed for his wife's murder (the motive of which
makes no sense by the end, even the framing itself is laughable), and
there are two elements involved some text messages and some bagels.
Whitaker at the scene of the crime sits looking at them both, and if
you have decided to watch this film with any part of your brain turned
on, you'll be screaming at him for not working out the obvious. The
film apparently plays in real time, because just over an hour later
Whitaker reveals "yeah i knew you were innocent from the beginning,
because of the bagels".. he may as well have said "we knew you were
innocent, but we needed to chase you otherwise there'd be no excuse for
you to trash a whole load of police cars, potentially risk the deaths
of many innocent people, destroy an elevator shaft, and for you to kill
more Eastern Europeans so Luc Besson can buy a bigger mansion to write
his next masterpiece in".There's a part shortly after Whitaker leaves the crime scene, and
Dougray Scott asks Whitaker if he knew about the events of Istanbul,
Whitaker may as well say "well, duh, off course i've seen the last
movie, who hasn't, $600million at the box office, why you think I'm
here bro, we going to make some bank!! Just look at me and say stuff,
don't worry about what you're saying though, no one cares, they're
tweeting each other, waiting until Neeson shoots someone. Look, I made
my character carry around a chess piece and play with a rubber band to
give my character appear to have some depth, even though i'm literally
the worst detective ever". Literally a few scenes later, Whitaker
explains to his pawns that there are no records on Neeson since he
joined Special Forces in his 20's, but is magically aware of the events
of the last film. Forget the fact this man seemingly went to a lot of
trouble and risking his life many times to save his wife, he now
decides to go buy some bagels then kill her?I felt embarrassed that I got roped into watching the film, purely
based on how good the first movie was. Thankfully I didn't pay any
money, though 2 hours of anyone's time has to be worth something? This
is the logic of such film franchises "Fool me once, shame on you, fool
me twice, shame on me", it's literally as if the film-makers are saying
"we're even now". Anyone versed with films knew the moment they heard
about "Taken 2", that it was the pure example of a sequel that wasn't
going to be any good, the first film had no right to be as good and
enjoyable as it was. The sequel is literally as pointless as you can
imagine, it is just an excuse to see Neeson kill people, and for the
most part that side of things is fun. The sad news was that the sequel made more money than the original,
despite the poor critical reception. The next sequel was inevitable,
and we, the film going audience basically told Besson and Co. "you made
an awful, pointless film, yet we rewarded you with money, please give
us another even more awful film and we will give you more money, don't
worry about the script, just make sure Neeson kills people in a cool
manner". There was no need for a good script, I doubt Besson and Kramer even
wrote it to be honest, they most likely got some poor grad student to
write it within a week, and paid them to take the credit, so they could
say in the marketing that it was written by the same guys that wrote
the original we loved so much, and Luc Besson, we really liked his
films from 20 years ago. "Just make sure there are 3 acts, midpoint all
that stuff they expect, and Neeson needs to kill at least 10 people
from Russia or the Ukraine, who cares, make sure they sound like bad
men. And the twist with this one is that Neeson will be on the run,
because his wife has been 'taken' away from him.. get it?! genius
right".Only problem is he only kills 9 people.. one of them can't bear the
stupid dialogue anymore and kills himself.. no really, it's the most
believable and honest moment in the film, it happens 5 minutes after
Neeson develops the power of teleportation and escapes a car while it
rolls off the side of a small cliff. 1 star for making an actual film the 2nd star is for tricking me into
watching this utter piece of tripe.
