7
I don't see why everyone hates it so much.

*Minor spoilers involving structure of the film, no plot points*In short, it isn't nearly as bad as everyone is saying. Let me
elaborate. In case people don't know, the first Sin City from 2005 was based on
the 1st, 3rd and 4th books in the 7 part series by Frank Miller. These
follow the story lines of Marv, Dwight and Hartigan respectively. In
addition to those, there are also a few shorts thrown in, either from
the books or not. So, needless to say, Sin City and its sequel are both
anthology films. If you want one single story that takes 2 hours, this
may not be your thing. Sin City 2 follows almost the exact same structure as the original,
which I found nice. Sure they didn't do anything original with the
structure, which was sort of playing it safe, but I liked it. It felt
familiar and reminded me of the original which I loved very much. It
begins with another short story, this time starring Marv. It rocks. It
continues on with a new story not contained in any of the books. It
stars Johnny, a gambler who "never loses". Mid way through, we cut to
another story. This is the 2nd book, titled "A Dame to Kill For". If
you've read this, you won't see anything new. Like with the first film,
they essentially translated the story from page to screen, and it works
for the most part. There was one detail I didn't like, but it doesn't
last long. Then after that, we finish up the story with Johnny, and
finally, we get to the revenge mission involving Nancy and her hunt for
Senator Rourke. That's all I'll say about that. Everyone is complaining about how the movie looks like a cutscene from
a video game. They are sort of right, but not entirely. Even after
waiting 2 weeks, I was unable to find a theatre in my city showing the
film in 2d. It seems like this is happening more and more now. If you
want to see an action movie in theatres, it's 3d whether you like it or
not. Now, having not seen a 2d version to make a comparison, I can say
that the 3d is most likely what makes it look so video game-y. I'm sure
in 2d it'll look slightly better at least. Update: I did see it in 1080p and in 2D, and it does look less like a
video game cutscene. You can still tell that there's a lot of CGI, but
it's done better than a lot of films. Also, greenscreen sets have been used for over a decade now, I don't
see why people are complaining so much. Everything is a CGI-fest these
days, and this story, with a fantastic setting and extraordinary
physics pulls it off nicely. You can tell, but it's far from awful. Everyone is saying they loved the first one, but hated this one. I
don't see how that's possible. They stuck very close to the original in
most ways, such as cinematography, soundtrack, and directing, all of
which were great (for a Sin City movie). Sure it isn't a masterpiece my
any means, and it's not as good as the first, but it's super
entertaining, very violent, and is sure to please anyone who enjoys the
books or the first film. Forget all those jaded movie snobs saying it
sucks. They're just focusing on all the negatives, and letting that
cloud their vision of the awesome stuff.
