7
Still a fun entry but is slightly tainted

For cartoons, Genndy Tartakovsky has had his hands in and on a lot of
peoples' favorite shows. There's something about Tartakovsky's vision
of cartoons that breathes life into every movement that is made by
them. Tartakovsky made his directorial debut with Hotel Transylvania
(2012) and although it was not universally renowned, made people found
it to be a fun family movie with a well-developed story, energetic
animation and colorful characters. Plus even though it dealt with
Halloween related characters, the idea wasn't to scare but make light
of the characters and the lore of which they originated from. Here we
are with its sequel and although it does keep several elements from the
original the same, some things have changed and other parts should have
changed. Thankfully, this sequel isn't brought down a whole lot, but it
is enough to notice the differences in what should've been focused on
more.The story to this installment revolves around Dracula (Adam Sandler)
trying to bring out the inner vampire of his hybrid grandson Dennis
(Asher Blinkoff) brought upon by newly wedded couple/parents Mavis
(Selena Gomez) and Jonathan (Andy Samberg). The reason for this is
fearing that if their son has no vampire blood flowing in him anywhere,
Mavis would end up leaving the hotel for good. Although the premise
isn't as obvious, unfortunately the execution ends up feeling very
similar to that of the first (plot wise). Dracula claims he is more
open minded now but still clings to his past and tries to hide his true
ambitions. In some respects, this particular play out moots the point
of the first film altogether. Once Drac accepted Jonathan into his
world, he should've been prepared for what came after. It just makes it
feel like he didn't learn from before. The writing group for this entry
shrunk in size. For the first film, five writers were involved. Here
only two were, of which only one of them were from the original five.The one from the original five was Robert Smigel, a writer for multiple
Saturday Night Live episodes. The other writer credited for this film
was Adam Sandler and unfortunately it shows too. How? Two words, potty
humor. Yes, and it sticks out like a soar thumb. Hotel Transylvania
(2012) did have some silly moments but none of the comedy required
potty humor. That's not to say all of the scenes don't work, but there
are scenes where experienced viewers will be able to point out the
scenes that Adam Sandler had wrote in. It's just not necessary. Of all
problems with this and a familiar plot, that's it. For the moments that
don't included immature humor, the rest of the comedy bits are new and
contemporary, which is having the characters play off of their own
flaws and personalities or trying to have them figure out social media.
Drac can't seem to understand that to use a touch screen, you can't
have long fingernails. He'll get it I'm sure.There's also new character additions to the cast, which is great
although sometimes it can sink a film if it becomes over saturated. All
the original characters voiced by Adam Sandler, Selena Gomez, Andy
Samberg, Kevin James, David Spade and Steve Buscemi all sound exactly
as they should and still play off one another well. Even Keegan-Michael
Key who replaces CeeLo Green as Murray from the first film practically
sounds the same too. Some of the new voice actors to jump on board or
receive more attention are Sadie Sandler as Winnie (one of Wayne's
children), Jon Lovitz as a "phantom of the opera" type character and
the comedy guru himself, Mel Brooks playing Vlad, Dracula's father. It
really is nice to see a bunch of new and old voice actors work together
though. Plus, a star talent like Brooks isn't wasted either. His
appearance isn't as long as everyone else's roles but he comes in at
the best time.Again since this production was headed by Tartakovsky, the animation
and character designs are nothing but great. The character designs are
all unique and have intricate texture detailing. Alan Hawkins who
worked as an animator for the first film serves a senior animation
supervisor for this entry. Considering his past work being on projects
like Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs (2009) and Arthur Christmas
(2011), Hawkins feels like a great collaborator for Tartakovsky's
vision. The film score produced by Devo member Mark Mothersbaugh
continues his usual work but again fails to provide his listeners with
an actual soundtrack for download. The score itself matches the scenes
well and portrays the right emotion but it's weird that Mothersbaugh
can provide a score for Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs (2009) or The
Lego Movie (2014) but can't for these films. Why so selective in
distribution?It's not a huge step down from the original but it is noticeable. The
sequel does maintain all the character relations and chemistry while
adding in new ones like Drac's father voiced by Mel Brooks. It also
keeps the same great animation and music. Unfortunately although the
premise feels new, the execution is very much parallel to the first
film in some ways. Plus with Adam Sandler now active in writing the
script, some his childish annoying potty humor got in the recipe as
well and it's obvious as all get out.
