6
Why Did I Fall For The Trap?

I always do this. I see a film get 10 out of 10 and people rave about
it being terrifying and I get my hopes up like maybe this will be
completely different to what's out there right now. Maybe it will be a
good ghost story, a good classic horror I'll lose sleep over or will
repeat itself in my mind on the night bus home until I become paranoid
of every dark figure on the street.I remember the day I came home on a night bus scared to look out of the
window cause even my own reflection might change into the face of
another! You know what? It's been so long since that day I don't
remember what that feels like anymore.It's OK, I'll give it 6 out of 10. The last half an hour is better than
the first hour. There's nothing in it we haven't seen before in the
past few years.I don't see the point of the doll possessed by a demon when it does
nothing scary and is far too farcical to be considered scary. A creepy
doll could easily be a simple porcelain doll with blank expression and
vacant eyes staring. Remember when a room full of perfectly ordinary
ornate dolls sounded ominous? It doesn't have to be a clown-like
ventriloquist dummy with scars that doesn't even look convincingly like
it was ever a child's toy but destined to be a demon conduit.Maybe the doll was the idea of the person involved with the making of
Saw. Cause it seems like it was too similar in its clownishness.I'm ignoring the fact this is "based on a true story" by the way. Maybe
the doll was real and did look exactly like that. Maybe everything in
the film is spot on and why should they bend the truth to appease my
want for seeing a horror movie that's different to others on offer out
there? Fair enough! Coming from the people who told us absolutely
everything in the Amityville Horror was true, though... I'm inclined to
believe they've bent the truth somewhat and could have done more to
make me scared of my own shadow.The only good bits reminded me of other films, the crazy old witch
ghost who vomits blood into the woman's mouth is suspiciously similar
to the old bat from Drag me to Hell, which once again has been done -
IF it hadn't been done it would have been a good bit, but because I can
only think of something else when I see it...nah.I'm fed up with them trying ghost stories and possession horror. Please
find a new way to try and scare me because you only seem to be throwing
the same things at me. It's like a ghost jumping out at me and hiding
back away in the same spot for the next time I come in because it
thinks "it worked once, so this must be the only way to do it". Only
the first time will make me jump. Eventually it just becomes tedious.
