10
Her is Spike Jonze's finest film yet

I've been a fan of Spike Jonze's films since I first saw Being John
Malkovich. Although the wonderful script deserves some of the credit
for making that film so great, it was immediately clear to me that
Spike Jonze was a director with a fresh and imaginative perspective.
His next film, the 2002 meta-comedy Adaptation, confirmed this with its
dry wit and multilayered narrative. Now, after a slightly less
successful (but still enjoyable) adaptation of Where The Wild Things
Are, Spike Jonze has written and directed his most complete and
poignant film yet, Her. The story, taking place in a near future when people spend more time
talking to their computers than they do to each other, stars Joaquin
Phoenix as Theodore Twombly, a lonely man whose job is to write
heartfelt personal letters for people not willing to do it themselves.
Theodore happens to see an ad for a new computer operating system that
is programmed with a personality, and decides to give it a shot. His
new operating system Samantha, voiced by Scarlett Johansson, is not
only intelligent but also charming and understanding, and she and Theo
quickly fall in love.It's understandable if that premise sounds bizarre on paper, but in
execution Her is far more sweet than creepy. The film radiates warmth
and intelligence, and there is a fair amount of witty humor to ensure
that it never becomes too self-serious. It has an engaging style
similar to that of Sofia Coppola's Lost In Translation. Like in that
film, there's a certain poetic yet whimsical quality to the dialogue in
Her and both the main characters are plagued by feelings of loneliness.Beyond the romance though, Her has a lot to say about modern society's
obsession with technology. The people in this futuristic vision of Los
Angeles walk around talking to their computers and ignoring each other
entirely, not unlike people today staring at their cell phones rather
than talking to those around them. Needless to say it's not a wildly
original message, but it's communicated in a unique enough way that it
works.I've seen Her twice now, and the more I think about it the more I feel
that Spike Jonze has crafted the best film of 2013. Her is equally
heartfelt and heartbreaking, a deeply personal and thoroughly enjoyable
futuristic love story.
