9
They could have done better

I saw this about 24 hours ago at the Best of Fest for Sundance, and
this last 24 hours I have done little but think about and marvel at
this film. I really had zero expectations going in, I heard the buzz
surrounding it in town, but knew very little about it as the film
began. I have yet to get the words that do my thoughts justice for this
movie but I am going to try. First everything about this film was stellar; casting, writing, acting,
directing, music and cinematography all came together to just tell an
incredible story. I want to say a bit more about a couple of these
aspects. Acting, first of all I don't know who impressed me more Miles Teller in
the lead as Andrew Nieman or JK Simmons playing Band teacher Terence
Fletcher. Both did so great that had either been a lesser actor they
would have been out shined by the other. Simmons' performance really
reminded me of Gunnery Sargent Hartman from Full Metal Jacket, except
rather than emotionally destroying and rebuilding marines he was doing
it to 18 year old kids. His character could have easily been cartoony
and 2 dimensional but Simmons gave him such depth that the whole film I
felt compassion for and even understood his motives, even before he
lays them out for Nieman in the third act. Two scenes bring you to the
core of this character and the line that has intrigued me for 24 hours
is "No words in the English language are more dangerous than 'good
job.'" (thus why I titled my review as such, sorry I couldn't resist).
Then on to Teller's performance, for a younger actor who I haven't seen
in much I must say he played his role like a seasoned actor. His
performance just wrapped me up and to find out he did much of the
drumming himself is insane. Whilst watching some of the intense scenes
I felt like I was watching him be executed, and other times it feels
like the fight in Rocky, you feel like you are just watching him get
demolished, except all of this is emotional rather than the easier
physical. Whether it is the discouragement, the socially awkwardness,
the single parent household, the internal conflict, the hubris, the
arrogance, and at times the mental torture that he put himself through,
all just blew me away. Teller reminded me of a much much more talented
John Cusack and had the charisma and electricity to connect to the
audience. The one other thing I must commend is the writing, so often you kind of
know where a movie is headed but this movie stayed very unpredictable
and just when you think for certain how a scene or sequence of scenes
will play out they take a hard left and keeps you off balance (in a
good way). It was so refreshing, a few times I thought the bow was on
the film but then something disrupts how "it should go or end". Sorry if I rambled, perhaps after thinking on it more I can get a more
focused review, needless to say this film is a must-see when it gets a
broad release. Great job to all involved and congrats on winning the
award at Sundance, you certainly earned it. One last thing if this gets attention in wide release this could see a
heightened interest in Jazz, this is certainly a film that can make
even the not-so musically inclined want to throw on a Jazz record and
just drown in it.
