8
A film to remind us that humans, particularly adolescents, aren't as easily defined as we think

Greg Gaines (Thomas Mann) is an awkward, self-loathing teenager,
wandering the halls of his high school with a relaxed and mellow
attitude. He's not anti-social, as he goes out of his way to talk to
people of all different social groups and cliques, fully intent on
never getting too close to call them "friends" and operating just
basically enough so he can never become fully immersed in their life or
embarrass himself. His friend, though he won't call him that, is Earl
(Ronald Cyler II), who has been by his side for years, as the two make
low-budget parodies of classic films (IE: "A Sockwork Orange" is their
version of "A Clockwork Orange," Jean-Luc Godard's "Breathless" becomes
"Breath Less," a film about a man's attachment to his inhaler, and
"Midnight Cowboy" becomes "2:48 P.M. Cowboy"). Despite these films
blatantly being awful, the two continue their productions for reasons
they can't even adequately explain.One day, Greg's mother makes Greg visit the home of Rachel Kushner
(Olivia Cooke), a girl Greg's age who has just been diagnosed with
leukemia, to express his well wishes and give her some company. Right
from the get-go, despite being loved and embraced by Rachel's mother
(Molly Shannon), who is constantly sipping alcohol following her
divorce and her daughter's diagnosis, Rachel detects the obligation of
Greg's visit. Nonetheless, the two make casual small talk, with Rachel
revealing her normal side and Greg continuing to harp on his awkward,
self-hating side with little tact and emotion. He remains in a constant
state of mellow carelessness at all times, but grows close to Rachel,
even going the distance to working with Earl to make a movie for her
when she begins chemotherapy and becomes increasingly withdrawn."Me and Earl and the Dying Girl" immediately feels like a Wes Anderson
picture that tackles realm of quirky teenage films so heavily that it
becomes twee and almost petty. The opening sequence alone reminded me
how tired I was of hearing stories that begin with "this is not your
typical high school love story" or the continued affirmation of the
main character's unique story by saying "this is the part where her and
I should kiss" or "this is not your typical romance." This has gone
from being subversive and innovative to a cloying attempt to be
original and unique, incessantly reminding the audience that your story
is different.Yet, "Me and Earl and the Dying Girl" is special because, much like
Rick Famuyiwa's "Dope," released last week, it reminds how people are
much more complex than films often portray. "Dope" focused on the
perils of living in South Central Los Angeles and getting caught up in
gang activity all while struggling to remain true to yourself, find
yourself, and stay in tune with your morals. With that, "Dope" showed
how a person is not easily defined and there were many shades of gray
in defining a human and his choices.This film operates on the same plane. Scenes with Greg and Rachel do
not go the way we expect at all. At no moment does Greg comfort Rachel
by holding her, caressing her, kissing her, or giving her the
reactionary statement that "everything's gonna be all right." At no
point does he really ever give her a reason to smile because he is
being flattering or particularly kind to her. Quite frequently, I found
myself being really surprised at his behavior; it's unlike most
behavior we see between two adolescents in film, but yet, not uncommon
of adolescents in the real world.Films have shaped our ideas about teenagers in a way that paints many
of them as stereotypes or members of an easily defined class. Films
like this, "Kids," and "The Breakfast Club" have worked to paint
richer, more realistic pictures, showing the grayness in defining
adolescents and showing that the emotions they feel, the decisions they
make, and the paths they work to forge for themselves can be just as
daunting as the priorities many adults face each and every day. If
nothing else, "Me and Earl and the Dying Girl" reminds, if not,
informs, that teens aren't easily defined caricatures - some sit before
computers and edit their own makeshift films with their friend with
posters of Martin Scorsese's "Mean Streets" and François Truffaut's
"The 400 Blows" neatly hung on the walls behind them."Me and Earl and the Dying Girl" also mixes the brutally honest,
complex emotions of "The Perks of Being a Wallflower" with the basic
premise (but not mawkish sentimentality and ultimate corniness) of "The
Fault in Our Stars." Mann proves to be an interesting character, almost
an anti-hero in his ability to love or be loved because of his own
stubborn attitude and coldness to the idea of personal connection.
Kushner also gives a tremendously affecting performance on a low-key
level, with emotional scenes that hit right on the noise. They're not
too overdrawn and they're not too cutely resolved or painted; they're
brutally, unequivocally real.The only thing burdening the film is its obsession with its own
quirkiness and its increasingly irritating ability to try and remain
meta and different. The film's insistence on its own desire to be
unique unintentionally undermines Jesse Andrews' compelling,
heartwrenching story and Alfonso Gomez-Rejon's (who also directed the
strong remake of "The Town That Dreaded Sundown") directing, which
resembles the astute, symmetrical-precision of Wes Anderson. "Me and
Earl and the Dying Girl," however, ultimately succeeds in showing
humans, particularly adolescents, as they naturally are - complex,
sometimes detached, but never boring.
