8
For die-hard fans of the original trilogy

It's been nine years since Jim and Michelle walked down the aisle
together in "American Wedding", and since then the franchise has been
somewhat corrupted by the pitiful straight-to-video spin-offs with the
"American Pie Presents" series with "Band Camp" and "The Naked Mile" to
name just two. However, having personally chosen to neglect these
straight-to-video shambles, I was one of many die-hard fans of the
original anticipating the long-awaited 'reunion' of the original
characters who had first captured our hearts in 1999 on the eve of
their high-school graduation as they made a pact in desperation to lose
their virginity before heading off to college. They reunited again in
2001 in "American Pie 2" as college fresh-men, still none the wiser
from their experiences in the first film or from their spells in
college. "American Wedding" seemed to be the final adieu until it was
announced in 2008 that Universal Studios were planning to release a
third sequel to the 1999 classic. The film went into pre-production in
2010 with Jon Hurwitz and Hayden Schlossberg signing on to write and
direct the film together.Thirteen years has past since Jim, Oz, Kevin, Finch and Stifler
graduated from East Great Falls. Jim and Michelle are still married,
and are now parents, while Oz is a frustrated TV sports presenter. He
and Heather have long since parted ways. Kevin is a stay-at-home
husband while Finch has been travelling the world. Stifler is still
living at home and partying it up, although he does work at an
investment firm where he is bullied by his arrogant employer. The gang
all reunite at the East Great Falls Class of 1999 reunion, and lay
their lives out before each other as they discuss the ups and downs of
adulthood and look back with nostalgia on the good old (but awkward and
slightly embarrassing) high school days, while still engaging and
finding themselves caught up in sticky and hilarious situations over
the course of the weekend."American Reunion" should only be viewed with the regard that it will
only really appeal to fans of the first three films as many of the
jokes and situations tend to be rehashed versions that we've already
seen. However, what really appeals to the fans of the series is the
care that Hurwitz and Schlossberg have with the characters. This could
have easily been a total disaster, but not only is the passage of time
handled well (You have to remember that it's been almost ten years
since the Wedding), but the characters seemed to have been nurtured in
the script and thanks to the brilliant performances from the original
cast. This fourth installment will certainly satisfy fans, and is a
welcoming piece of nostalgia.
