10
A deep, thoughtful and exciting experience

2012 was an amazing year for animation. I absolutely loved Wreck-it-
Ralph, Brave, Hotel Transylvania, Frankenweenie, Rise of the Guardians
and even the not so loved Ice Age 4. ParaNorman is another fantastic
film in the 2012 animation category. I'd rank it my 3rd favorite from
the 2012 animation list.This film came at a time when zombies are at their most popular in TV
and cinema. However this film takes a zombie story and gives it a great
twist and depth in its storytelling with meaningful and heartbreaking
themes applicable in today's society. It has some pretty resonating
messages about understanding, ignorance, bullying, bigotry, friendship
and family and love. The anti-bullying messages are great and hopefully
will register with our youth. All these messages are interspersed in a
very much original story with sweetness and humor. Though at times the humor does get a bit PG and higher. So parental
guidance is advised. It is a very mature story. Mature in that the
humor can get a bit non-kid friendly with references to sex and to an
adult film store, the F word and some more. So in this regard parental
guidance is suggested but for teen and adult viewing, it is a fantastic
film with perfect blend of storytelling, great messages, emotions and
humor.The film is very different from what we've seen and yet so familiar, i
say that in a very good way. Essentially it has few minor elements of
Ghost Whisperer, Scooby Doo on Zombie Island, Scooby Doo and the
Witchs's Ghost, The Sixth Sense and more Scooby Doo and merges them
into one but in addition it adds a lot and i mean a lot more to make
quite an original story. See the mentioned films above and you will
notice elements reminiscent of in this film. This film also is very
witty with a lot of ironies and it parodies stereotypes in modern
society which add to its humor. There were also references to some
films of the horror genre of which i am not a fan but still caught a
few.The stop motion animation is very well done and is very lovely. The
stop motion is excellent, colorful and has a large degree of detail.Some people say it has dark themes, well personally if you watched
Hocus Pocus as a kid and loved it, then you are sure to love this one
since they have a lot of similarities.
