9
A witty, neo-noir caper

Having divided cinema-goers after entering blockbuster territory with
Iron Man 3, it's refreshing for Shane Black to return to the big screen
with a much smaller scale film in the form of The Nice Guys. Starring
Russell Crowe as hired enforcer Jackson Healy and Ryan Gosling as
private eye Holland March, the plot involves the two attempting to find
a missing girl named Amelia and uncover why several men are trying to
kill her, with the pair soon find themselves caught up in a plot much
bigger than either of them had originally anticipated. Functioning
essentially as a 'buddy movie' which plays out as a neo-noir, The Nice
Guys is a genre pairing that works beautifully thanks to the central
performances and Black's script which is equal parts hilarious and
clever.Set in 1977 Los Angeles, The Nice Guys cleverly cements itself within
the period that the story takes place by referencing actual events.
With the city being plagued by smog throughout the 1970s, car companies
were urged to attach catalytic converters to their newer vehicles in an
attempt to reduce pollution, and it's these facts that Black chooses to
revolve his narrative around, as well as the growth of the porn
industry and institutional corruption. Each of these components work in
tandem to create a story which understands it's time period much better
than the recent X- Men: Apocalypse, making it feel entirely necessary
rather than a narrative gimmick, and allows Black to fully showcase his
talents as a writer by utilising a historic period in such an effective
way.No matter how effective this setting is, it wouldn't be nearly as
enjoyable had it not been for the characters that inhabit it. Jackson
Healy and Holland March may occupy familiar territory within a buddy
movie, but Black's witty dialogue and fantastic performances from his
leading men ensure that the film's protagonists never feel stale. Crowe
and Gosling prove to be one of the best double acts in recent years,
with the former giving his best performance in almost a decade and the
latter displaying the full range of his comedic talents after dabbling
with comedy in The Big Short and Crazy, Stupid, Love. Together, their
characters exist as a flawed odd couple who manage to bring out the
best in each other – a trope of the buddy movie – yet the way in which
Black presents both them and their budding friendship/partnership is
completely believable and hilarious.It's this hilarity that is present throughout the clever narrative that
elevates The Nice Guys above recent buddy movies such as Ride Along,
proving that films of this genre can have brains and humour instead of
just the latter. Mixing slapstick with physical comedy and witty
dialogue, Black has created a film which should appeal to a wide
variety of people no matter what tickles their funny bone, and do so
while telling an often complex tale of corruption in 1970s LA. It's
this mix of comedic stylings that provides levity to some of the more
violent scenes featured within the film and Black makes sure that the
jokes are never too quippy or predictable at any point.Unpredictability may be a dirty word in Hollywood yet here, it greatly
helps the film in terms of both the humour and the plot. As good and as
funny as the two leads are, it's Angourie Rice that steals many of the
best lines as March's daughter, Holly, which may very well be the most
surprising aspect of the film. Though only thirteen, Holly is presented
as being much more efficient than her father and often exists as his
guiding light when his problem with alcohol gets the better of him, and
as a young actress, Rice displays an incredible amount of composure
amongst two of Hollywood's leading men. Plot wise, there's several
twists and turns within the narrative that allows the audience to
discover things as the characters do, which aids the mystery within the
plot and ensures that each revelation is met with surprise from both
those on screen and in the cinema.If there's one flaw to be found within The Nice Guys, however, it does
also relate to the plot. While Black's script is clever, there are
times when viewers may get a little bit lost as the investigation
unfolds. This is partly due to Black's reluctance to include exposition
heavy scenes which is, for the most part, a smart technique but one
that can be troublesome in a film such as this. Filmmakers should never
rely too much on exposition in order to tell a compelling story – I'm
looking at you, Nolan – but if it is used wisely and incorporated
subtly, it can be a great help when connecting the dots that make up
the plot. A scene towards the end of the film that reveals the big
picture to the characters and the audience does feature exposition that
doesn't feel too heavy handed, proving that Black is capable of
providing information through dialogue that sounds natural.Thankfully, the scene in question brings viewers up to speed before the
thrilling, and often explosive, finale at the Los Angles Auto Show
which provides a satisfying conclusion to the events that preceded it.
With a new Predator on the cards for Black in the very near future,
it's a pleasure to see him deliver a smaller film before he returns to
blockbuster territory and reminds us all just how enjoyable a night at
the cinema can be.A comedy with brains, Black's latest benefits from a superb script and
great performances from Crowe, Gosling, and it's secondary cast
members. When it comes to value for money this summer, you'll be hard
pressed to find a film that can offer it quite like The Nice Guys does.
