6
What's up with Hollywood?

I have never written a review in IMDb. This is my first time. Why?
Because the movie hasn't been released in USA yet, and I just watched
in India. Seeing just 5 reviews, I wanted to give mine too.What's up with Hollywood? Other than spectacular visuals and 3-D, they
don't seem to care enough about anything else. In Exodus, by the famed
director Ridley Scott, he surpassed many elements in visual effects. I
have never ever seen so detailed visuals of ancient buildings, slums of
slaves, and huge ocean waves and what not. 3-D adds a lot of pleasure
in viewing such effects.That's it! There is nothing more that I could appreciate. It feels very
empty. No emotions at all. Acting by Christian Bale is quite alright,
but it is nothing special. Some scenes are memorable. But the lack of
good writing, script, and no contribution from other actors diminish
the effect of Bale as well. It is hard to imagine the same guy directed
Gladiator (I haven't seen Aliens and blade runner). But there is
everything missing in Exodus that made Gladiator a hit.At many places, it is boring, even if the cinematography and visual
effects are great. In the beginning, you would feel as if Ridley took
you to the ancient Egyptian world, just because of the small details
shown in the effects. However, any interest or so will end in next 10
minutes or so, when the story starts lacking.So, my question remains. What's up with Hollywood? Is this much
technology and huge funding to such directors destroying the
creativity. Why no body cares about character building and good script?
At one level, it feels extremely sad that with this budget and this
talent in technology, even a slight efforts and honesty towards script,
story, and dialogue can take such movies to a masterpiece level.
But...no! "We are going to earn a lot of money. You are going to enjoy
watching the magnificent sequence of millions of frog jumping in
ancient buildings. Call it even?" Really?
