7
Snow is not our friend

Greetings again from the darkness. Man vs Nature movies tend to remind
us of both our tenacity when things go badly, and our lack of control
or overall insignificance in the big picture of life. This tends to be
true in the mountains, on the water, under the ocean, in caves and in
space. Twin brothers Alex Smith and Andrew J Smith have adapted and
co-directed this film from a short story by David Quammen. The
filmmakers were raised in Montana, and have an inherent feel for the
stunning and often treacherous landscape.Matt Bomer, in a sharp left-turn from his usual pretty-boy roles, plays
Cal, a live-off-the-land mountain man with seemingly few needs outside
of food, water and a desire to connect with his teenage son through a
hunting trip. Josh Wiggins (who exploded on the scene in 2014's
HELLION) plays David, a suburban Texas boy who is out of his element
without his cell phone. The opening panoramic view of snow- covered
mountains is contrasted with David's engrossed concentration on his
hand-held video game as the plane approaches the landing zone. "How was
your year?" is David's greeting from Cal, instantly elucidating their
relationship.Cal excitedly reports to David that he has been tracking a bull moose
for 11 weeks, and wants this to be David's first big game kill. We are
constantly reminded that this isn't trophy hunting, and that this
single moose will provide Cal enough meat for a year. David has no real
interest in killing a moose, but longs to connect with his father … and
"longs" is interpreted through the teenager's shrugs, glances and body
language. Wiggins plays David with the subtle authenticity of the
teenagers most of us have known, raised, and at one time, been.As Cal explains the history of the mountains, he also works in stories
of his youth when his father (David's grandfather) was teaching him the
ethics of nature. Numerous flashbacks feature Bill Pullman and Alex
Newstaedter (as young Cal). The flashbacks are a bit artsy, and
sometimes intrusive, but in the end, form a parallel story structure
that works.A couple of poor decisions lead to an accident that could be straight
out of the Dick Cheney's field guide to hunting. Cal and David are both
injured – Cal severely so. It's at this point where David must grow up
quickly. The skills he has learned, or at least absorbed, are now
necessary if he expects to save his father's life. What was a story of
two polar opposite blood relatives trying to connect, transitions
instantaneously into one of survival, maturity, persistence, and love. Movies such as THE REVENANT and THE EDGE come to mind, but this one is
short on thrills, and is instead a trudging struggle to survive –
taking a quiet approach, rather than a showy one. Lily Gladstone, fresh
off her terrific work in CERTAIN WOMEN, has a brief sequence near the
film's end. The beautiful landscape and terrain is captured by
cinematographer Todd McMullen, while Ernst Reijseger's score
effectively complements the odd mixture of slow pacing and non-stop
danger. Whether you are trying to live a reclusive life off the land,
or simply one of the many parents attempting to connect with their
kids, keep in mind that regardless of the beauty of the mountains,
"snow is not our friend".
