3
Lazy, cynical, and mean-spirited - the end could've come sooner

I watched Todd Phillips' original Hangover film in theaters under
normal, unassuming circumstances and walked out believing I had just
witnessed a comedic masterpiece. It had the luxury of appearing just
funny enough from the trailers and the fact that it was released during
the time where the Apatow-esque comedies began to take way after
something of a comedy recession. I loved it and believed it was one of
the strongest comedies of the last decade. Its sequel, released in
2011, was, to say the least, a colossal disappointment. It featured
mostly the same premise, with slight location and plot changes, and
wasn't assisted by creativity and curiosity in terms of where the plot
was going to go, unlike its predecessor.And now the inevitable Hangover: Part III is out, which is unworthy of
bearing the franchise's name and certainly isn't good enough for the
Roman Numerals in its title. This time the film doesn't amplify
something that was done previously only significantly better, but
instead makes this a cynical, mean-spirited follow-up featuring
characters we grew to like in the original but now sort-of can't wait
to see gone. The posters for the film boldly claim "The End" and my
only response is "You're Late." The film reunites Phil (Bradley
Cooper), Stu (Ed Helms), Doug (Justin Bartha), and Alan (Zach
Galifianakis), the notorious "Wolfpack" who decides that after Alan's
recent stint with a giraffe on a freeway that he needs to be taken to
rehab and put back on medication. The four decide to travel to Arizona
together, when they are run off the road by Marshall (John Goodman, in
perhaps the strongest performance of the entire franchise), a gangster
who has been robbed off $21 million worth of gold from Leslie Chow (Ken
Jeong). Being that the Wolfpack were close with Chow, Marshall kidnaps
Doug and demands that Chow and his gold be returned to him. Cue the
barrage of silliness and misunderstandings now.The main difference between the two previous Hangover films and this
third installment is that this one takes an approach more in line with
an action film than a comedy. I see something more reminiscent to a Bad
Boys III rather than the final installment to a long-running comedy
trilogy. Actions scenes evoke the quickest and most irrevocable kind of
monotony and with a series that is already beginning to feel like it
has been carried out way past its prime, this only cements it.And if that doesn't turn you off, the belittling mental illness subplot
and the animal cruelty will likely do the trick. With Alan being off
his medication, the character is given the most screen time in the
film. Not to mention, Chow is given much more as well, and if we learn
anything, it's that these two characters were better in small doses.
Alan's dim-witted comedy and Chow's drug-related witticisms were at one
time fun and fresh, but now, stale and flavorless. Furthermore, this is
by far one of the most aggressive Hangover pictures in terms of what it
portrays as comedy. It must be something of record that a one-hundred
minute mainstream movies features the decapitation of a giraffe, the
smothering of a rooster, and the poisoning of two dogs in an attempt to
create humor. It's a sick, deplorable tactic that Phillips, who has
shown his talent for giving characters something fun to talk about,
uses in order to drum up either controversy or laughs or both.Had the original Hangover stood on its own, not possessing sequels of
lesser quality leaching off its name, it could've very well become a
classic in the next several years. Not only that, it could've been seen
as a studio marvel, one that didn't need to "push the envelope" with
sequels and redundant attempts to break taboos. Alas, it is too late
and it's a shame the untold millions the previous sequel grossed and
the final installment will inevitably gross are put to two lesser
films. I end with the the encompassing hope that the taglines for this
film prove prophetic.Staring: Bradley Cooper, Ed Helms, Zack Galifianakis, Justin Bartha,
Ken Jeong, John Goodman, and Mike Epps. Directed by: Todd Phillips.
