4
The pay-off is not worth the build-up

So I watched Moana and boy, what a lazy movie it was. So full of good
ideas, squandered on a passable family movie. And yes, I know it's
Disney making a family movie, but it had all these ideas that would
make a great story if they were taken more seriously. The premise of
the movie is basically the whole world dying because of what someone
did and they treat this catastrophic event as an annoyance instead of
something actually serious.The protagonist is Moana, an absolutely average Disney princess type of
character that wants to say no to being stuck in a life of safety and
luxury. We've seen it a thousand times by now, it's nothing that stands
out or even something logical in the long run since these types of
sheltered characters do not know anything about the outside world and
are in effect useless on their own.And I have to point this out about her which is one of the many things
they didn't bother to clarify. Why is everybody fine with a girl being
their leader? Do they have gender equality on this otherwise primitive
island? If they do, they never showed it because any other leader we
see in their history was a guy. Combined with how she doesn't drown 1
minute after going into the sea with zero experience further proves
this movie is empowerment fantasy for little girls instead of a movie
where talent and intelligence matter.But it's OK because the scriptwriter did his worst to plot armor her
from any possible danger. Because you see, the gods chose her to be the
one who restores the world, thus every time she falls in water, a
magical wave takes her on the boat. When she doubts her abilities, the
ghosts of her ancestors appear to motivate her. She is essentially a
plot device fully controlled by the plot instead of doing what she
wants and facing the repercussions of her mistakes.And if you think calling her the chosen one properly excuses all the
nonsense, it doesn't because the gods make no sense. Why did they wait
a thousand years to do something about a disaster that has killed most
of the islands, and of all people why did they choose a little girl
with no skills or experience of the outside world? They never explain
it.Do you know what else they didn't explain? Why her pet pig doesn't grow
up. She begins as a little girl and grows up to a teenager, but the
damn thing remains a piglet throughout the whole movie. Nobody in the
production team gave a damn.The problems don't even stop there. The first thing she has to do is
find Maui, a demigod who has been stuck on a barren island for a
thousand years and is the only person who can save the world. He is
also the one who doomed it, so that makes sense. Also, for a guy who
spent a millennium all alone without something to eat or do on a tiny
island, he sure looked fine when she appeared. Disney went so safe and
lazy on him that he is nothing but a cool guy who does cool things and
has absolutely no sex drive, or psychological trauma for being left
alone all this time.Accompanying them on their journey is a retarded chicken. It's the most
annoying comic relief animal I have seen in my life. It's not funny, it
causes more trouble than aid, and they never eat it although they never
seem to have enough food. How the hell did it get on the boat in the
first place? Moana didn't take it with her, it just appeared out of
nowhere in the secret cave nobody had been in for centuries. Nobody in
the production team gave a damn.You probably think I am being too harsh on what is supposed to be a
dumb movie for kids, when I'm not since they clearly put effort in
fleshing out the characters in a way that demands from the story to be
better. Moana's father has a good reason for not letting her out in the
sea. Maui has a good reason for why he keeps going on adventures and
tries to impress the mortals. Even the villain of the movie has a
reason for why she is evil. These are really good stuff, and they are
ruined by the lazy script.If the movie was like that in all its aspects, I wouldn't be bothered
by it. But when you set it up in a way that obviously raises the bar
like that, the disappointment multiplies when you treat your good ideas
like a joke. I can easily sum up all these problems as cheap
resolutions. Everything is fixed way too fast despite the problems
building up for countless years. The father changed his mind way too
fast and lets his daughter sail in the sea, Maui changed his mind and
returned to help her without even showing us how, and the goddess
forgives Maui instantly, despite causing her pain and suffering for a
thousand years, as well as wiping out the life of countless islands and
filling the sea with monsters. Hell, even the disease that was slowly
killing the islands went away in a few seconds despite spreading slowly
for centuries.This movie is so freaking lazy. The pay-off is not worth the build-up,
its ideas are not used properly, and all you end up getting is a
generic Disney princess and a retarded chicken.
