4
Vine and Pokemon Go had a baby (and the Kardashians are the Godparents

I struggled staying until the end of that movie, probably because I am
not within the right demographic,so I'd say, if you are shaving
already, this movie is probably not for you! (But if you are not
shaving yet I am not sure I would like you to see that movie) I usually
enjoy college silly movies or even some high school centered movies,
but this was too much for me. Only good reason to see this movie might
be for a drinking game: take a shot every time they say "OMG!" This
movie is surfing big time the Pokémon Go wave, it is an ode to so many
things that as an adult,are bothering me: the social media
addiction(Vine,FB, Instagram), it puts ego-centrism, greed, instant
gratification, instant fame into the spotlight. It encourages people to
break the rules for fame, it makes attention seekers, extreme thrill
seekers looks cool. But at the end there is a nice little twist and a
lame moralizing lesson, which tells us do not go too far, friendship
and life is more important, awwww so true, soooo nice, but...too late,
the movie just spent 90 min showing people that all this crap was cool,
pretty much being an enabler, validating addictive, dangerous
behaviors, in front of a young susceptible audience! (or an older
audience wondering why the hell I am here) We all read stories of
selfie takers who fell from a crane or roof or cliff because they were
trying to score a cool shot for their social media profiles... The
movie is rather fast paced, but it is just watching a succession of
dares: steal this, be naked, get a tattoo, risk your life...it is
actually not funny nor entertaining to watch this. The main actors are
likable, but it is was not enough to make me forget how idiotic this
movie was. I was fooled by the 7 average, but then I realized 80% of
the people watching this movie were below 25, so like I said in my
opening statement, this is for a younger audience (who might pause
their Pokémon Go hunt or their posting on FB, VIne, Insta... for the
duration of this movie, and get their nose back into their phone screen
as soon as the movie is over)
