8
An undeniably likable protagonist, even when he does morally ambiguous things.

While not entirely original, Jack Reacher is both a competent mystery
movie and an exciting action film. In that order. Not much for blending
its components, the first three quarters unfolds in an intriguing and
serpentine manner, while the last portion focuses rather exclusively on
explosive adventure. The whodunit gets left in the dust; but it's still
an effective journey regardless of the unceremonious juxtaposition of
genres, primarily thanks to leads Tom Cruise and Rosamund Pike. Many of
the characters in the film fall squarely in the category of generic,
but Cruise and Pike push past their less polished support (like the
"crotchety old man with a heart of gold" and "disfigured evil villain"
roles that expectedly pop up) to create worthwhile heroes that deliver
a surprising amount of witty banter and clever deducing of miniscule
signs.After a considerable amount of evidence finds former military sniper
James Mark Barr (Joseph Sikora) the prime suspect in a brutal killing
spree of five innocent victims, he asks the district attorney to find
the mysterious Jack Reacher (Tom Cruise) to help prove his innocence.
Instead, the elusive investigator arrives to make sure Barr pays for
his crimes. When defense attorney Helen Rodin (Rosamund Pike) implores
Reacher to examine the evidence more closely, the two begin uncovering
a massive conspiracy and a trail of bodies leading to the real
culprits. As they dig deeper, Helen and Jack become the targets of a
dangerous gang of criminals who will stop at nothing to keep the truth
from surfacing.It starts with a particularly scary opening sequence, which in light of
current events, along with editing and sound effects that bespeak
frighteningly realistic atrocities, seems staggeringly morbid. Shortly
thereafter, "Jack Reacher" is all about fun. Light-hearted adventure
(thanks to an invincible hero), flirty repartee, and plenty of action
movie clichés (not excluding crooked cops, an impressively unidealistic
car chase, and nasty villains itching to be offed) are jam-packed into
a smartly paced puzzlement that quickly devolves into a sensationally
caricatural revenge fantasy. While it's not a thinker, it certainly is
nonstop guilty pleasure entertainment.A vestige of creativity pokes through the occasional framing of poses
and consternated expressions by a sharply focused camera, the ampleness
of circumstantial evidence to fuel a conspiracy theory, and the "trust
no one" theme of lone wolf substantiating. This is witnessed chiefly in
the dialogue-free apprehension of the suspect (directly after the
opening scene) and in the repetitive way Reacher is shown to be a
formidable opponent to all things injurious. A few scenes are dedicated
entirely to demonstrating just how seasoned he is at fighting crime (or
to show his tangible machismo) – and later, a few more similar moments
are thrown in just to reaffirm that notion. Each time this is done, the
film becomes more enjoyable, right along with a role catered
specifically for Cruise.He's an undeniably likable protagonist, even when he does morally
ambiguous things. Calm, collected, smug, confident, lucky, smarter than
the cops, and always calculating, this new Ethan Hunt-like character is
even better than the "Mission: Impossible" daredevil Cruise has been
embodying over the course of fifteen years; he's minutely more
believable and his humorous quips are continually amusing. Nearly every
exchange of dialogue (and combat stunt) is honeycombed with comedic
verbiage or executed with an unmistakable wink, even when (perhaps
especially so) it's an icy threat to antagonists. Once again, Tom
Cruise has crafted a charismatic character audiences won't be able to
get enough of.- The Massie Twins (GoneWithTheTwins.com)
