8
Flawed but bold.

I won't bother trying to keep this spoiler free, because I want to
address a couple things that involve later plot events. So, I was lucky
enough to get tickets to an advance screening; not the only one I know,
but it was my first time going to one and that was kind of cool. There
was a lot lacking from this compared to the Secret Service, which
didn't keep it from being entertaining but did make it less enjoyable
overall.There were some choices that were made and risks that were taken in the
content of the story that I admired, which I'll talk about first. A
relatively small risk was having a woman play the villain. Giving Eggsy
a long-term relationship with Princess Tilde could not have been easy
to handle from a writing standpoint as Eggsy gets put in a *very*
awkward spot at one point because of it. The largest of the risks,
though, was having the villain's plan center around drugs. It isn't on
as grand of a scale as Valentine's cell phone scheme, but it does
involve a major moral and social question. I thought it was a brave
choice to deal with the war on drugs in such a touchy way, but they
didn't go so far as to take a side. After all, a *lot* of people use
drugs and a great number of them are decent human beings. One of the
people in my theater gave a little cheer of approval when the "Save
Lives-- Legalize" thing came up. In a way, I wish the Kingsmen could
have been required to make a tougher moral choice, but it isn't that
sort of movie. Still, I think it's a step in the right direction that a
big studio movie like this is taking these sorts of risks.Risks aside, this was a step down from the first movie in every regard.
Julianne Moore was not nearly as good of a villain as Samuel L. Jackson
in my opinion. The action was on par with the first movie, but not
better. No fight scene topped the iconic church brawl from the first
movie and there was more deus ex machina than I would have liked, but
Agent Whiskey was amazing to see in action. Also, it was rather
inconsistent with its story, and I could tell that it was being
hampered by a need for action scenes and Elton John cameos. Most
frustrating was the lack of theme and character arc. In the first
movie, we got to see Eggsy becoming a gentleman and rising above his
circumstances, but nothing like that was present here. I guess there
was a little bit of an "oxfords not brogues" motif with the Statesman
being against drugs but okay with alcohol, but that's a stretch. A
couple other attempts were made at giving the movie more of a theme,
but they fell short by and large.Other notes. I could have done without Charlie coming back, especially
since they kept him and killed off Roxy. I'm not sure that anyone is to
blame for this, but John Denver's country roads song has now come up in
a major way in two movies this year (see Logan Lucky). If you want to
see this, I recommend seeing it in theaters because I know I laughed
more than if I watched it at home alone. It was a bit of a let down,
but I will go see the third if there is one. Overall Rating: 7.7/10
