6
Welcome back to the '80s

It takes a certain mindset to appreciate a movie like "The Expendables
2". One has to be a fan of the action genre of the 1980s and early
1990s, as well as enjoying those action heroes' persona and screen
presence whenever they appear on-screen. They did not necessarily have
to act well, but they had to be tough, heroic, stoic, larger than life.
Realism need not really apply here - it's all about the fun factor.
People paid to see these guys blow away the scum of the earth as they
only know how."The Expendables 2" is the first sequel (and it most certainly would
not be the last) to Stallone's 2010 surprise blockbuster which was
intended as a glorious throwback to the films of that era. This one is
no exception. However, it is a rare sequel which is better than the
first. The story may not be important in these types of movies, but in
this one the screenplay had a much clearer and stronger narrative than
the first film, making it clear that the stakes are raised, thus
enabling the story, however shallow, to be more engaging for the
audience.Director Simon West ("Con Air") did wonders with the action sequences
as he usually does with his movies. The majority of the action
sequences are well shot with wide angles and much better stunt
choreography (with CGI touches added here and there, but not as
pervasive as the first film's CGI blood; good ol' squibs are used here
mostly) which gets annoying with the film's rapid editing at times.
Brian Tyler's music score was fairly engaging but didn't really stand
out. Overall, the technical aspects of the film really shows off the
big budget for the film, and it pays off ultimately.But what about the characters? If you've seen the director's cut for
the first film, that's about as close as you can get for character
development. Like the first, this is all-out action, but it has some
dramatic moments too. There is a line about coping with death that
Barney Ross mutters that feels kind of sad knowing Stallone's own real-
life predicament. Van Damme's having a blast as the Villain, and a
menacing one at that. The biggest disappointment was that of Jet Li's
very minimal screen presence, like a cameo. Hopefully an extended
version will fix that problem.The film's biggest entertainment value comes in the constant one-liners
from and between the action icons of the eras, as well as their
presence and their dispatching of the bad guys. The banter here is
certainly more hilarious and less bland than the first film - there is
much more chemistry between the characters. Their screen presence needs
no explanation: Sylvester Stallone. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Bruce
Willis. Jean-Claude Van Damme. Chuck Norris. Dolph Lundgren. Jason
Statham. Jet Li. Need I say more? Cult or mainstream, these guys each
has hordes of fans - and they have good reason to.I grew up on these types of movies and ultimately "The Expendables 2"
satisfies my craving for good old-fashioned movie bloodlust in wake of
the ever-rising wave of PG-13, CGI-laden action films ("Total Recall"
remake, anyone? Oh Arnie, where art thou?). That being said, I expect
an extended director's cut as I feel that some parts were awkwardly put
together, and hopefully these removed scenes will make the film better
as a whole. For now, "The Expendables 2" is very good entertainment, as
shallow as it is technically well-made and ends the 2012 summer movie
season with a big bang.Now bring on "The Expendables 3" with Steven Seagal and Wesley Snipes
(to basically complete the cycle of 80's/'90s action heroes). Mel
Gibson, Kurt Russell, Harrison Ford, Nicolas Cage and Clint Eastwood
(my #1 action hero) are also most welcome indeed.Overall rating: 65%Action movie rating: 75%
