9
Heat to the Cold Sheridan's fantastic crime thrillers work beyond change in weather

After the southern heat of Hell or High Water, Taylor Sheridan gives us
the cold wintery thriller Wind River.In the frosty Wind River Indian Reservation of Wyoming, the body an 18
year old Native American girl is discovered by Wildlife service agent
Cory Lambett (Jeremy Renner). Lambett with his knowledge of the
mountain assists foreign FBI agent Jane Banner (Elizabeth Olson) to
track down the killer, but also his own personal reasons wants to find
the killer in an attempt to wrestle his own demons.Inspired by true cases of missing native American girls, Wind River has
cold hearted passion in its story-telling. A very melancholy murder
mystery drama exploring grief and vengeance but also the neglect of the
Native Americans in the mountain regions in the USA.During a time this week while I was pondering the significance of
different crime thrillers, with also the approach of the The Snowman in
November, Wind River is real important stand out. The film itself
although is about a murder is more centred on the atmosphere and
location. Repetitive vibes of a hellish land resonate throughout the
film. This mostly breathed life by the chilly aerial shots of the cold
mountain land, identifying misery through the snow breeze and wind (an
atmospheric format that was similar expressed in Hell or High Water).
The most haunting aspect is the character brought to Wind River by Nick
Cave and Warren Elis eerie soundtrack, echoing the dark past of the
freezing land.What leads us into the desolate mystery of Wind River is Jeremey Renner
superb performance as the experienced hunter possessed by the past but
also enriched with perception of his home land and its welcome. Renner
very much appears as himself, however is a perfect casting choice with
his neutral expression hiding his deeper emotions. Opposite is
Elizabeth Olson, the most convincing FBI agent I've seen on screen for
a while. But her city slicker style does not prepare her for the
divergent law enforcement experience in the isolated Wyoming. These two
leads are the perfect casting, with a enigmatic presence that makes you
completely believe in them.While Wind River has deeper meaning at its centre, Sheridan knows how
to thrill his audience in quiet sensational but violent sequences. Loud
sound effects of the gun shots bring light to the silent landscape that
the characters dwell, and present a sense of realism to the experience.Sheridan's third feature in his trilogy of modern American law
enforcement, following, Sicario, Hell or High Water, has shown his
strength in creating masterful crime thrillers with much to reflect
about the real world. This capacity has also lead stronger confidence
his potential prospects in directing a Bond film. 9.2/10
