10
A film that not only tests the idea of aliens, but of humanity.

Are we alone? This question has haunted mankind since they first gazed
at the stars. "Arrival" answers this question with an abrupt no. Other
films have tackled the question of humanity being alone in the cosmos,
from classics like "The Day the Earth Stood Still" (1951) "The War of
the Worlds" (1953) "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" (1977)
"Arrival" deals with the idea of alien landings in a much different way
than traditional Sci-Fi films. While the picture focuses on creatures
from another planet, it still has the uncanny ability to question our
own humanity. Although "Arrival" is set up like many other Sci-Fi films with a doctor
being needed by the government to do some top secret work to save human
kind, it is not a traditional Sci-Fi film. Being Denis Villeneuve's
first leap into the Sci-Fi genre "Arrival" is a story of
self-reflection which is helped along by an alien presence. For no
particular reason 12 alien ships land all over the planet in seemingly
random locations. The only true form of communication takes place from
a single opening in the bottom of the alien vessel, where Linguist Dr.
Louise Banks (Amy Adams) is tasked at trying to open up dialog with the
visitors. Physicist Dr. Ian Donnelly (Jeremy Renner) is tasked with
finding out how the alien vessel is capable of travel through space and
how it seemingly defies gravity. The real question however remains in
not how the aliens got to earth, but why? What sets this film apart from others in the genre is the way that it
plays with the notion of time, love and the essence of being human.
Which is showcased in director Denis Villeneuve and writer Eric
Heisserer's effortless ability to jump from time and place. While
trying to discover what the Aliens are, and their motivation, Dr.
Louise Banks discovers what makes herself human and questions
everything held sacred to her. "Arrival" is just as much a film about
aliens landing on earth, as a film about self-discovery and the value
placed on love and loss. Dr. Banks although participating in some of
the most ground breaking work a linguist could ever be involved in, is
haunted by the tragic loss of her daughter. This coupling of discovery
and loss is reflected perfectly in the acting performance of Amy Adams
who is often torn between several emotions throughout the film. Just as in his previous movies "Sicario" (2015) and "Prisoners" (2013)
Denis Villeneuve employed composer J贸hann J贸hannsson who created an
eerie and often unsettling composition for "Arrival". The sound pairs
perfectly with the strange other worldly images of the aliens and their
craft, the composition adds another layer of complexity to the already
foreign and creepy world that is the alien craft. Visually the film is
fantastic with an expert play on light and dark imagery, and the very
deliberate use of color to emphasize certain characters and events.
This transfers into the shadowy and smoke filled environment inside the
alien vessel as well as the ink like Rorschach style alien writing. The
visual effects used in Arrival give a sense of other worldly presence
making the ship look as if it were a great technical feat of some
unknown civilization, yet at the same time look organic as if were
merely plucked from the surface of some far off planet. The aliens
themselves look as if acquired from a Guillermo del Toro set, they are
octopus like with long tentacle arms and gunmetal gray coloration,
which begs the question of how a creature like this could have the
dexterity to craft a sophisticated vehicle. The film comes together to create a package of visual, intellectual and
audible bliss. The composition of J贸hann J贸hannsson is second to none
and at times the sound plays a critical character in the film. The cast
with inclusion of Michael Stuhlbarg and Forest Whitaker (2 actors not
really know for Sci-Fi) was a welcome addition. The dynamic between Amy
Adams and Jeremy Renner seemed organic and a hallmark of great acting.
But the stand out performance was that of Amy Adams who played a truly
troubled and conflicted character.In "Sicario" Vileneuve finished the movie with unanswered questions and
left a lot to the imagination. In "Arrival" the film ended with a
perfectly packaged ending that felt too neat and tidy. The film went
into some sophisticated ideas that dived into the essence of humanity,
yet did not give the same license for abstract thought with the
conclusion. Ultimately Arrival is not just an exploration of alien
beings, it's an exploration at what makes us human, and the positive
and negative aspects that are associated with that humanity.
