2
Spock would have said: So very illogical!

The first half of this film was okay. All actors fine except for Maddie
playing Christina.Almost no dialogue or acting required...just look
sullen, sullen and more sullen.The second half of the movie has more holes then Swiss cheese. It was
unbearable to watch utter nonsensical scene after scene.School principal says nothing more can be done to help Christina
regarding the suspected abuse by her step dad. Yet, when she dances at
the talent show the principal seeing tears of sadness/joy??? decides to
call the authorities, not the next morning, but supposedly that night.
Christina has never confirmed to anyone that she's being abused. Views
from Henry's house never show actual abuse, just sinister lighting. In
fact, there is no frame in the film that shows Christina alone with her
step dad inside the house. The thought of assassination where Christina
has never uttered a word confirming it and neither Henry or Susan
witnessed it was too far fetched. Much better would have been a Henry
plan to prove his guilt and see him imprisoned forever.Police cars, lights glaring rush to Glen's home after the Principal
supposedly made a phone call. Since Christina never confirmed step
dad's abuse the principal could say only that Christina, at the show,
looked sad. This is somehow sufficient for an night time arrest warrant
sending flashing police cars to make an arrest. Nonsensical.In the end, Henry's 'plan' to save Christina is trashed by mom Susan.
Then the worst of scenes. Women, unarmed, tells dangerous armed felon
to look at her as she tells him: I'm the woman who will put you away
forever if it's the last thing I ever do. Middle of woods, no
witnesses... you think Glen might take her out to avoid a forever
prison sentence? Naw, he just walks away, so that Henry's plan is a
total bust.If mom Susan had shot Glen there was no time for her to deal with a
body, she had four minutes to get back to the show. Forensics would
know the shot came from the tree house leading back to Susan. The gun
store owner knows Susan's face.Henry's famed red book, with all kinds of Henry's writings and sketches
plus his 'plan' is tossed by Susan into the fireplace. No need to cut
out the 'plan' pages and save Henry's precious writings/sketches.Henry was such a 'brain' it is not possible he would've come up with a
simple assassination plan instead of an exotic high tech plan to bug
Glen's home with audio/video to easily gather evidence to put him away.For those of us who watch forensic files Henry's plan would have
insured Susan's tenure in the state pen.On the plus side Henry's plan for mom Susan to become Christine's
guardian did work but only after the Principal not mom Susan
intervened.
