9
Highly enjoyable and engaging effort

Finding a new house in the suburbs, a single mother and her daughters
trying to move past their past tragedies find that their stylish new
house is haunted by a series of ghosts from a past killing spree
targeting the family for moving in and forces them to battle their way
out of the house.This one was quite the enjoyable and underrated effort. One of the
better qualities about this one is the rather fun time it has going for
the first half building up the idea about the areas' history and the
house being possessed. Utilizing a great trick with the series of fly
gags that are quite prominent here as well as the dog barking at
everything, the way this one generates a rather uneasy feeling from the
very beginning about being in the house gives this a really enjoyable
baseline to delve further into the story. Going away from this into the
rather strong haunting scenes which are full of the usual flash-jump
cuts of ghosts standing behind people or threateningly offering to
attack them like in the constant hallucinations she experiences of the
bloody bed in her room gives this one a rather intriguing air about it
which is nicely enhanced even more by the actions involving their
troubled son. Not only is the physical handicap given a nice berth here
with the way he's woven into the story but it manages to generate some
rather enjoyable scenes interwoven into the film from the way he always
seems to malfunction around her, the swarm of flies that attack the
doctor when no one else is around or the truly heartbreaking revelation
sequence that turns into yet another enjoyable jump scare which gives
this one plenty to like. The fact that this one gives off the idea of
his eventual recovery from the forces inside the house rather than
typically going for the typical jump scares so predominant in the style
makes for a rather fun time here as it slowly becomes more and more
obvious what's happening to him due to the unrealistic recovery that
tends to be explored here. By the time it gets to the finale and
features the full extent of the transformation, this turns it into a
thrilling series of chases around the house that attempts to recreate
the actions of the previous occupants which is where the full-on fun of
this one comes from as it attempts to move between stalking and
brawling while also managing to generate the kind of conceptual finale
that's highly enjoyable to see it play out. These here manage to hold
this one up over it's few minor and somewhat nondetrimental flaws. The
first one is the rather rushed finale that does have the feeling of
being run through in a quick state in order to get through the story,
both in terms of the on-screen action and the newsreel footage as these
go by way too quickly to take them all in. As well, the fact that no
one is aware of the history of the house and how it's tying into his
recovery makes no sense, as this one makes the connection obvious yet
it seems to be completely ignored for no reason in order to create the
illusion to come later on. These here are all that really hold this one
down as it's rather fun regardless.Rated PG-13: Violence, Language and children-in-jeopardy.
