3
"Jobs" could have been "insanely great" but instead gives a lackluster glance at the highlights and lowlights of Steve Jobs' life.

"Jobs" could have been "insanely great" but instead gives a lackluster
glance at the highlights and low lights of Steve Jobs' life.While the film is factually accurate from the events cited and
statements Steve Jobs made down to the realism of the characters
appearances, it lacked character development and a cohesive story. It
is well cast and well acted. However, with major events being presented
in the film like news headlines, there is no story justifying their
existence. Steve Jobs is portrayed giving repeated quoted monologues
instead of engaging in real dialog between himself and his co-workers
to illustrate the chemistry of their relationships that lead to their
success.Since 1982 I spent most of my adult life using Apple's products,
writing thousands of lines of code on the Apple II computer and reading
every news story about Apple. The film fails to capture the grueling
work and the pride programmers and engineers feel for designing cutting
edge hardware and software to create Apple's superior computers and
software.For such a prolific inventor and complex man that Steve Jobs was, I am
surprised that a veteran director like Ron Howard or Steven Spielberg
didn't direct this. I really wanted to know how Steve Jobs'
father-in-law inspired him and instilled in him his drive for
perfection. I wanted to learn how Steve started iTunes and invented the
iPod. These were not in the movie.There are many key events in Apple's history the film omitted that were
crucial to understanding Apple's success. Steve's idea for the Mac
originated with his engineer, Jef Raskin, showing him a prototype
bitmapped GUI of Alto computer at the Xerox PARC think tank in 1979. It
had the first personal desktop interface of windows, icons, menus and a
mouse, a major advancement over the millions of existing command driven
PC's in the market using green screen monitors with mono-spaced fonts
of 40 characters by 24 lines. Jobs was immediately convinced the Alto
interface is the direction Apple Computer must go, so he bought it from
Xerox and designed the Lisa and, later the Macintosh on this concept.
The film omitted this visit to Xerox.There was fierce competition in the personal computer industry. A
decades-old storied rivalry between Bill Gates and Steve Jobs began in
1985, one year after the Mac debuted. Except for one scene in the film,
this rivalry was completely omitted from it. Jobs' was irate that Gates
stole Apple's graphic user interface (GUI) from the Macintosh but the
film fails to show how this happened. Jobs previously went to Microsoft
to hire Bill Gates to write business software (Word, Multiplan, etc.)
to enable Apple to sell its new Macintosh computer. In doing so,
Microsoft learned how Apple's GUI worked, reverse engineered it and
created a similar interface for Microsoft's new Windows operating
system to work on the existing millions of IBM computers running
Microsoft's Disk Operating System (MS DOS). Microsoft would compete
directly against Apple Computer. Though the film does portray Steve
Jobs as a disciplinarian, a perfectionist and temperamental, it never
shows why he was this way.The film was remiss of major events and details needed to explain
Apple's success story. Jobs got his start in electronics working for
Hewlett-Packard after calling founder William Hewlett on the phone at
his home. Jobs met Wozniak at HP. And, Jobs used "The HP Way" as a
blueprint for starting Apple Computer. Steve Jobs' miraculous
turnaround of Apple from near bankrupt to profitable in three years and
to the world's largest company in 13 years, business leaders consider
the biggest ever success story in the history of American business. How
the film could leave out this turnaround (inventing the highly
successful iMac, PowerPC, iPod, iTunes and iPhone) is astonishing. Even
before coming back to Apple, Jobs re-invented Pixar animation after
buying The Graphics Group from George Lucas, revolutionizing animated
movies for Disney that were created on NeXT graphics workstations (the
most advanced in existence) that Steve Jobs invented. This, too, was
omitted from the film.In one of his biographies, Steve Jobs explains succinctly how the iPod
epitomizes Apple Computer, "it combines Apple's incredible technology
base with Apple's legendary ease of use with Apple's awesome design."
This is the premise upon which "Jobs" should have been based. I
recommend the film but with reservations.Chris Kaufmann
