7
Before I Fall - The Horror Movie

I was pretty excited to see this movie. I loved "Before I Fall" and I
also love Horror/Thriller films....so seeing that "Happy Death Day" was
a combination of both of those things, I decided that I should go see
it.I honestly thought this film was pretty decent....even though it was
wasn't quite as good as I wanted it to be. The biggest problem was that this movie didn't scare me at all. I might
have felt a little spooked just once...but that hardly the "OMG I so
scared god!! Argh!!" type reaction that the movie wanted me to have.
None of the scary/suspenseful scenes really got me. I feel like this
happened because this movie tried to be two things at once. It tried to
be a drama like "Before I Fall" while also trying to be scary like
"Scream" yet only ends up being OK in both ends of the spectrum. It
feels like "a jack of all trades master of none" situation. The other problem was the exposition involving our heroine was poorly
handled. Not spoil things...basically our protagonist actually has a
backstory....but it is given so little substance and emotional weight
that it was just meh. It also isn't as integrated into the story as
well as it could have been. I feel that her backstory could have been
more developed and/or given more emotional impact. Despite these problems, I still enjoyed the film. I liked the plot. Even thought I never felt scared, the movie gave me
more than enough interest for me to be invested in the story for the
entire run time. It will most certainly keep you engaged. And I think
the pay off to that story was pretty good, even if it felt a bit rushed
in hindsight.I also enjoyed the performances. Obviously none of them are going to be
Oscar-winning material, but I think they did the job well enough that I
felt immersed in what was going on. So good job guys!!Another thing that I liked was that I didn't find myself cringing
constantly like I do with other horror media like the "Scream TV show."
Never once did I find myself rolling my eyes whenever someone open
their mouth. Is the dialogue particularly memorable? Not really. But
the fact that it wasn't a total cringe fest was certainly great news
for meLastly, I thought the pacing was pretty decent. I did find it slow at
times, but the story had enough going on that I never once felt bored
or irritated or anything like that.Overall, I found this movie to be reasonably enjoyable. Despite it's
flaws, I found the story and the performances enjoyable enough that I
can say that I had a good enough time. I give this film 3.5/5 stars.
