4
The Desolation of CGI - the Hobbit trilogy continues to disappoint

I saw the movie in 2D because I hated the 3D HFR in the first Hobbit
movie. I thought the HFR just made the movie sets look like sets
instead of being part of the movie universe. I much preferred the 2D
experience here and it was easier for me to try to immerse myself in
the movie. Regrettably there were too many things that were wrong with
the movie for me to achieve that. This movie had a budget of something like 200 million dollars, over
double that of any of the individual movies of the original trilogy.
Where did all that money go? To that mostly horrid CGI? There was just
bloody too much of it like in the first movie. Everything looks so damn
fake with the CGI slammed front and center with no artistic attempt to
hide its shortcomings. For example, when Legolas starts chasing Bolg
out of Laketown, even his horse is made with CGI. Why? Couldn't you
afford to rent one horse? The orcs were mostly made with CGI and they
weren't menacing in the slightest. The few scenes with actual actors
with makeup playing the orcs were far superior. Erebor looked quite
good in general with its mountains of coins and treasures but the
melted gold looked unbelievably bad. Many of the actual sets in the
movie were very well done and I'm really puzzled why they didn't use
them more. The CGI in LOTR looked far more convincing and epic, the
large establishing shots looked like grand paintings come alive. What
happened here? I don't get it. It felt like I was watching a video game
and I don't want to feel that way when I'm watching a movie. Granted,
the original trilogy did have a bit of silly looking CGI here and there
but at least it was constantly grounded by real sets. There was also some really weird editing here too. The movie is already
way too long and they still include absolutely pointless scenes. For
example, when Gandalf is climbing the stairs by the mountain and the
ledge gives up, the movie suddenly cuts to a sweeping shot of the
mountain side. Why not just stay with Gandalf, it would provide more
intensity. There's many examples like this. In Mirkwood when Bilbo is
snapping at the spider web they shouldn't zoom deep into the web with
the camera. Stuff like this tells nothing and adds nothing to the film.
This also takes time away from the character development. When one of
the dwarfs oversleeps and misses the boat to Erebor, I couldn't even
remember who he was and why I should care that he was stranded in
Laketown. Also, the most puzzling and distracting choice in the movie
was using that weird POV camera footage in the barrel scenes, it looked
so utterly different that it took me out of the movie completely. The action could've been cut down significantly too. There was no real
context or meaning for most of it anyway. Also, after Legolas has
killed his umpteenth orc in yet another physics-breaking and miraculous
way, you simply lose interest. He can apparently do anything. My
feeling is that in the original trilogy the "laws of physics" so to say
were merely bent somewhat, here they're completely shattered. All of
this may sound nitpicky but I'm essentially doing this because the
movie didn't get me emotionally invested in it in a positive way at
all.The movie wasn't particularly funny either despite its lighthearted
source material, I laughed much more heartily in many parts of the
original trilogy. The Gimli joke was quite funny though. There was also
absolutely no memorable music in this movie and none of it moved me
like much of the music did in the original trilogy. I didn't get
shivers at any point of the movie.It wasn't all bad or mediocre though. Smaug was magnificent and
Benedict Cumberbatch did a great job voice acting the dragon,
definitely something to witness in a theater. Smaug's discussions with
Bilbo were also great. Gandalf's venture into Dol Guldur was also
interesting though that is mainly because Ian McKellen is such a fine
actor that he can catch your attention with ease. The cameos by Peter
Jackson in the beginning eating the carrot and by Stephen Colbert as
the Laketown spy were fun even though I think they might've been too
distracting had I loved the movie. The pacing in the movie is a bit of
a mixed bag. The first movie had bad pacing because it was overly long
without anything really happening. Desolation of Smaug swings the
pendulum to the other end with endless action sequences pasted after
another. Sure it's more exciting to watch but it was dearly missing
some slower sequences to digest everything. I'm a massive fan of the original trilogy but the first two Hobbit
movies simply haven't captured the epicness and magic of those movies
at all. And if the Hobbit wasn't intended to feel epic, then why make
it into three movies? There's also something else I don't get. The
original movie trilogy adaptation established what the LOTR universe
looked and felt like. Is the Hobbit trilogy still supposed to happen in
that same universe? I didn't ever feel like anyone was in any serious
danger because they survive crazier and crazier encounters after the
next and because of that there's no tension. This wasn't the case with
the originals. Huge spiders were very dangerous in LOTR, here Bilbo is
just killing them off left and right. I just wish they'd taken much
more liberties with the material and really placed this story into the
grittier universe that was established by the original trilogy. Or
maybe they should've done something completely different instead of
trying to imitate the originals and coming short of them. Anything but
this.
