10
'Something's rotten in the state of Denmark...'

The Danes have done it again! A ROYAL AFFAIR (En kongelig affære) is a
brilliantly executed and performed step back into history that succeeds
on every level. Based on historical fact and the Bodil Steensen-Leth
novel 'Prinsesse af blodet' as adapted for the screen by Rasmus
Heisterberg and writer/director Nikolaj Arcel, it blossoms from the
opening touching moments to the grand and gory closure.The story can be summarized as follows: In 1767, the British Princess
Caroline Mathilde (Alicia Vikander) is betrothed to the strange and
deranged King Christian VII of Denmark (Mikkel Boe Følsgaard), but her
life with the near bipolar monarch in the dank and dark kingdom becomes
oppressive: Caroline is disliked by the dowager queen Juliane (Trine
Dyrholm) and her confidant Ove Høegh-Guldberg (David Dencik) who both
would prefer Christian be de-throned, and Caroline must submit to the
somewhat distracted and loony acting king on her first night in the
palace - but the king's interest soon lags for want of prostitutes and
frivolous parties. However, Christian soon gains a fast companion with
the German Dr. Johann Struensee (Mads Mikkelson), a quietly idealistic
man of the Enlightenment. As the only one who can influence the King,
Struensee is able to begin sweeping enlightened reforms of Denmark
through Christian even as Caroline falls for the doctor. However, their
secret affair proves a tragic mistake that their conservative enemies
use to their advantage in a conflict that threatens to claim more than
just the lovers as their victims.The cast is extraordinarily fine, not only the three main characters
(Mikkel Boe Følsgaard finds just the right delicate balance for
Christian's moments of sanity and flights of lunacy) but all members of
the court and the masses of people living in the last country to move
into the age of equality of all peoples. The story is beautifully
photographed by Rasmus Videbæk, the stunning costumes are by Manon
Rasmussen and the important musical score is in the capable hands of
Gabriel Yared and Cyrille Aufort. Though the film is lengthy it is so
rich in history and passion that it moves very quickly. Highly
recommended, especially for lovers of historical drama. Grady Harp
