1
I don't get these people

It's official. I hate this director's movies. I've been wondering why,
and I have been wondering why I feel so angry about them, and it
finally dawned on me: it's about class.See, I grew up working class, not indulged, and I had work for a living
starting at age 16. I understand the value of hard work, sure, but I
also understand the necessity for it for people like me. When I and my
relatives have problems, they are real problems: cancer, loss of job
that may result in homelessness, bearing for years an awful boss with
40 IQ points less than us because we need the boring job, alcoholism
and no money to go to tony recovery resorts, having to eat beans and
rice not from some eating disorder/fad but because that's all we can
afford, living with dental pain for five years because we can't afford
basic dentistry (much less teeth bleaching) and the grinding, endless
truth of being stuck in our class because the uberwealthy won't allow
us to move from it, no matter how well we follow the rules of careful
education, careful savings, and hard work. So when I see these movies
by overly indulged people and about overly indulged people, I get so
angry I see red.I don't care about these people and their petty, self-invented
"problems." I wish for them that they get hit by a truck and lose a leg
or two and earn a real problem so they understand what BS this BS they
make films about is. (not that such a thing would be a real problem for
them like it would be for people of my class who can't afford good
health care, but at least it wouldn't be more of this non-problem crap
they get so whiny about in their whiny movies.) Movies like this make
me wonder, and not for the first time, why there isn't a violent class
revolution. Hey, we'd like just a year or two of experiencing these
non-problem "problems," too. "Gee, I can't decide what upper middle
class artsy thing to be after my trip to Paris. Gee, my parents don't
love me perfectly in just the way I want to be loved." Yeahyeahyeah.
Poor you.
