10
If there was ever a comic book movie deemed worthy of perfect, Logan is it.

The word 'perfect' is very objective especially when it comes to film.
While Logan may not be a perfect film, it is most certainly a perfect
comic book film. It is a masterpiece of the most epic proportions and
leaves us with a brilliant swan song for producer and star Hugh Jackman
in his final outing as Wolverine. The film, directed brilliantly by
James Mangold, is a two plus hour comic book fan's wet dream as we see
the version of Wolverine every fan has wanted to see for nearly two
decades. While many will be very sad to see Jackman step down from the
role, he couldn't have picked a better or more satisfying film to end
his cinematic legacy with.The film takes place in 2029 and shows the world in shambles. Mutants
are nearly extinct, water is scarce and the world is just an overall
wasteland. This is where we find Logan. He is a limo driving
cantankerous caretaker to an even more cantankerous Professor X, who is
now suffering from dementia and seizures. He is a borderline alcoholic
suffering from a mysterious illness that limits his mutant abilities.
Due to this, he lives this quiet life until he meets a young girl who
he feels he must protect. Without giving too much away, there is much
more here than I can go into but I will say, if you are a fan of the
Wolverine comics, this film will bring a tear to your eye. This is
probably the most faithful adaptation of a comic book character EVER,
Marvel and DC combined. The way the story goes, the way Logan behaves,
the selflessness and the rage, this is an all around realized version
of this character. While it may have taken a little longer than it
should have, this film was worth the wait. James Mangold does a
fantastic job at creating the world Logan knows now. This is more of a
film like Mangold's 3:10 to Yuma. It is bleak, violent and absolutely
heartbreaking. This is far from the PG-13 character we're used to. This
is a foul mouthed, miserable and very VERY bloody rendition of the
source material. This is a film very much like The Guantlet or
Badlands, a crime thriller and on-the-road drama. It very much embodies
the look and feel of a film from the mid-70s and it plays to this very
well. The performances in this film are amazing. Hugh Jackman's performance
here is the best as the character and may be one of the best of his
career. He is miserable and broken in this film and to see him like
this as the character, it is bittersweet especially because Jackman has
been so attached to this role. If he hurts, we hurt. If he's mad, we're
mad. It is a true testament to Jackman as an actor to make his audience
feel this connected to someone who is, by traditional standards,
completely unrelateable. Boyd Holbrook brings a sinister performance to
this and continues to build a very impressive resume. Holbrook is
someone who you'll love to hate. The real standout performance here is
from Dafne Keen who plays Laura. Without giving away any spoilers, she
is BADASS in this film and even gives Logan a run for his money on the
brutality.Overall, Logan is a perfect comic book adaptation that is as
heartbreaking as it is visually stunning. Mangold and Jackman create a
special film with this that should be talked about for years to come.
Believe the hype, Logan is a seriously amazing comic book film that
just may be the best ever made and embodies the definition of a perfect
adaptation.
