8
Two Hours of Fantasy That Has Something to Say About Reality

Loosely based on the 1939 short story by James Thurber, The Secret Life
of Walter Mitty explores the idyllic fantasies of its titular
protagonist, as he attempts to escape the mundane motions of his daily
routine employment at Life Magazine. When Mitty (Ben Stiller) discovers
that photojournalist Sean O'Connell (Sean Penn) has misplaced negative
25, intended for the cover of the final print of the publication, he
sets out on a larger-than-Life journey to locate the missing
photograph, while reducing his need for daydreams as he discovers that
not even his wildest fantasies are a match for an adventurous reality.In addition to starring, Stiller also takes on directing duty, and does
a mostly wonderful job of collaborating with writer Steven Conrad in
adapting Thurber's classic tale of a man's yearning for more out of
life.A fantasy adventure with glimpses of comedy, The Secret Life of Walter
Mitty is, in one word, pleasant. Envision a pyramid of qualities; the
film's dreamlike sequences comfortably and rightfully sit atop its
magnitude of highlights. With the lines between fantasy and reality
often being blurred in Mitty's zoned out state of paralysis, he invites
us into his crazy, hazy, even mazy lapses into daydreams of
romanticism, adventure and pleasure.Why are The Secret Life of Walter Mitty's fantasy sequences so
successful? Because of their relation to our own imaginations: the
things we wish we could say but don't; the places we wish we could go
but won't. The film's fantasy references are inspired by popular movies
such as The Matrix, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, Harry Potter
and pretty much every superhero film ever. This hilarious and creative
approach to Mitty's fantasies offers an insightful look into how
uninsightful our own imaginations can be, as they crave originality but
settle for what has been imagined before.Perhaps a slight disappointment to Mitty's on screen daydreams is their
quantity. While Thurber's short story is dominated by the character's
constant drift into his fantasy worlds, Stiller's adaptation favours
reality and narrative over fantasy and themes. The film's
aforementioned highlights are too few and far between throughout the
114 minute feature. Thus, it may have been Beneficial for Stiller to
lengthen the film slightly in order to incorporate more of Mitty's
fantasies, which would have better established his dissatisfaction with
life.Despite this, The Secret Life of Walter Mitty does have a story
investing and intriguing enough for it not to be the film's demise. The
secrecy behind negative 25 drives the film along, with love interest
Cheryl (Kristen Wiig) also spurring Mitty on in the passenger's seat,
inspiring the anxious and rigid dreamer to take his unpredictable ride
and become the person he desires to be.The Secret Life of Walter Mitty is refreshing in its lack of reliance
on dialogue. Instead, the film's beautiful soundtrack and score,
cinematography in exceptional landscapes and even the quietness of
Mitty, tells us pretty much everything we need to know. The Secret Life
of Walter Mitty consists of visual wonderment, with superbly selected
and composed music to harmonise the scenery, complementing each other
as they stroll hand in hand through Mitty's perfectly paced journey."Life is about courage and going into the unknown." If you fail to
relate to Mitty's early illusory state, cautiousness and absence of
courage, then you probably live a somewhat audacious lifestyle, in
which case good for you! For the rest of us, The Secret Life of Walter
Mitty is a relatable, pleasant and semi-inspirational modernisation of
Thurber's story.Just as the film's concluding third appears to have little payoff
considering its memorable opening two, The Secret Life of Walter Mitty
wraps up with a revitalising, picture-perfect moment, fulfilling enough
to make cinema-goers reconsider 2013's most impressive movies. In spite of its imperfections in almost keeping Mitty's secret life
somewhat of a secret from the audience at times, and preferencing the
film's plot over his fantasies, this adaptation is nonetheless a
satisfying, fun, visually and audibly pleasing present for the holiday
season. Not even Walter Mitty would fantasise about battling you
through the streets of Manhattan if you waited for The Secret Life of
his on DVD or Netflix, but this delightful film is definitely worth the
time and box office cost if you find yourself looking for inspiration
for your own imagination.
