10
A New Classic

The Short: Wreck-It Ralph is a classic. From the slick animation, the
great sense of humor, nostalgia inducing references and cameos, and the
surprisingly adept and emotional story, Disney's Wreck-it Ralph is the
best animated comedy since Tangled, and one of Disney's best animated
films ever crafted.Street Fighter, Pac-Man, Q-bert; widely known and considered classic
games. But a "new challenger has entered the ring" in the form of old
school, Donkey Kong inspired retro arcade game, Wreck-it Ralph. Follow
the misadventures of Wreck-it Ralph, voiced by John C. Reilly, as he
attempts to become a hero by jumping though various video games. I
don't want to spoil any of the plot, but it is incredibly well told and
is quite surprising in the end. It has that classic Disney emotion, but
with a most unique "video game-y" twist. In the end, Wreck-it Ralph
teaches some great lessons, but it is also neither mundane nor
juvenile, and that's why it's a winner. The cast here couldn't fit the characters better. John C. Reilly as the
big guy Wreck-it Ralph, Sarah Silverman as the spirited and
surprisingly funny Vanellope von Schweetz, Jane Lynch as the stoic and
hilarious Sergeant Calhoun, and Jack McBrayer as the lovable and yet
again laugh- out-loud Fix-it Felix Junior. The movie is absolutely
hilarious; the performances from all of the actors fit their roles
perfectly and couldn't be funnier. They couldn't have picked a better
voice cast, honestly to goodness. The animation continues the high pedigree that Disney has become famous
for. Its bright and lively action is wonderful to watch, and combined
with great facial animations make for a great and emotional experience.
But the winner here is the way that they have adapted the old- school
style of video game animation into the film itself. You'll know what I
mean when you see the movie. It makes for a truly unique, one of a kind
experience! Sony's 4K presentation is crisp and vibrant.The thing to understand though is that with its focus on video game
cameos and references, don't worry! You don't have to have any
knowledge of video games to understand or enjoy Wreck-it Ralph. The
story and main characters are all part of the film's story and world.
Rather than using the references as a crutch, they're used more as a
springboard into new and unexplored fictional worlds.Granted, gamers of all ages are going to love the care and attention
taken when putting in the huge amount of references, cameos, and little
bits of easter eggs spritzed and scattered throughout Wreck-it Ralph,
making for a truly nostalgic inducing experience. And those classic Disney trademarks, from great characters to a well
told story, are all here and are much more than side attractions. The
twist is great, the concepts are fresh, and the level of imagination at
work revives my faith in the animated genre. There's still plenty left
in this old dog after all.And so I have to end this review by asking, "Are you tired of the same
old washed up animated feature film? Feel like you're just too old for
childish animated movies?" Wreck-it Ralph is the perfect cure. And it's
meant for that group of movie goers looking for something more than
just another animated money pit. It's laugh out loud funny, exciting
and fresh, incredibly inventive and gleefully unique at every turn. It's a classic no doubt, and Wreck-it Ralph will be one of those movies
on my "favorites" shelf for decades to come. The true triumph? Wreck-it
Ralph feels like that classic game that has been a part of my childhood
ever since I can remember; the type of classic where you throw hundreds
of quarters away and you honestly just don't care, because it is just
that good. 5/5 - Perfection; Stop reading and watch right now
