8
A Film About Grown-Ups Looking Back... Made by Grown-Ups Looking Back

The World's End is about characters who have grown-up but are drawn
back into their younger years. Immediately, it seems this is a
comparison that can be made with Edgar Wright, Simon Pegg and Nick
Frost in their making of this film.For me, Gary King (played by Pegg) represents the youthful side of both
the film's characters and of Pegg, Frost and Wright; fun, playful,
reckless but forgotten and moving away from. However, once coerced into
reminiscing, it all comes back.This is reflected in the film itself which starts off rather slow and
dry, and surprisingly, isn't as funny as what it ought to be. So
although it does take a bit longer to get going than may be desired,
once it does, the laughter flows freely pretty much right through until
the end of the film. I have no hesitations in saying it is a funny
film.However, while the laughter is mostly consistent - coming from another
fine Pegg and Wright script - the final 10-15 minutes are, in fact, a
bit clunky and long-winded despite containing some of the most
heartfelt moments of the trilogy.Nevertheless, it is a joy to see Pegg and Frost on-screen together
again. They crack jokes left, right and centre as we are used to but
due to Gary and Andy's (Frost) rocky relationship, it's not often with
each other. This lack of warmth in their relationship, though a bold
change from the previous films, does strain at times and presents a
rather unwanted opposite here and there to what we are used to -
friends, fun, immature. There are, in effect, 5 leads which does
sometimes hinder the Pegg-Frost double-team.However, since there are 5 leads, this patch is mostly covered up.
Martin Freeman, Eddie Marsan and Paddy Considine do an excellent job as
King's high-school buddies, the latter in particular - Considine is a
gem.The World's End is the strongest film, thematically, in the Cornetto
Trilogy. It's about adulthood vs adolescence, regret, friendship and
above all the state of modern society. It does not nod nearly as much
towards or satirise genre like Shaun of the Dead or Hot Fuzz. No,
instead the nods and satire are mostly out and the themes are in.This is half-welcome, half-disappointing for the final film of the
trilogy. On one hand, since the other two satirise film genres it is
odd the this doesn't and honestly, a bit disappointing. This is much
more of it's own beast but, for a Pegg, Wright and Frost film, it does
feel far too much of an unexplored area. On the other hand, the
concerns of the central plot and the thematic content give the film the
strength to round off the trilogy in a fitting and appropriate way.Furthermore, The World's End contains many of the little recurring
elements from Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz which show such loving
attention to detail and continuity: the Cornettos, the Wright
short-shot montages, the fantastic soundtrack, the amazing use of the
word 'C**t', the noise of the pub fruit machine, and many other little
details that have made appearances in the previous two films are here.Not only are these recurring details present but so too are some of
Wright, Pegg and Frost's collaborators with their own fantastic cameos.
I won't give any away specifically but there are actors from previous
films in the trilogy and beyond (stretching back to Spaced, here)
making appearances and it's actually rather heart-warming. Evidently,
roots have not been forgotten.However, the impressive camera-work of Shaun of the Dead (with it's
long, Steadicam tracking shots) and Hot Fuzz (the well-studied and
executed shots deriving from the action blockbuster genre) was not as
present this time round. In The World's End, the CGI gets in the way
too often for the camera-work to shine and this is most apparent in the
film's several fight scenes. Fun though they are, they seem off-kilter
and as if they have been tinkered with a little too much. Though I
don't think it is as adventurous with the camera-work, it is still a
fine looking film which I credit with Edgar Wright's choice to continue
shooting on film instead of digital. Despite what may appear to be a lot of grumbling with The World's End
it is still very accomplished and probably one of the better films I
will see this year. Is it funny? Certainly, without a doubt. Is it as
funny as Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz? Not quite. And it is the
memory and affection for these two films and the frankly unavoidable
and inevitable comparisons between them which unintentionally hurt The
World's End. The influence of these two films, on the other hand - how they got
where they are to make this film - has undoubtedly not been forgotten.
However, the plot itself and the more heavy thematic content in place
of the fun, snappy genre references, give Pegg, Wright and Frost the
air of saying that there will always be time to reflect, have fun and
cherish the memories of younger, more immature days but that they are
older and more mature now and it is time to move on (though I don't
wish suggest that they wanted this film done and out the way - a lot of
love clearly went into it, as with the whole trilogy). If this is the
message we are to be left with, I will say that is a fitting way to end
any a trilogy.A desire for just a little more immaturity and laughter lingers over
The World's End nevertheless but it is still a very good film, one I
would not hesitate to recommend, and I am forever grateful to Edgar
Wright, Simon Pegg, Nick Frost and the rest of their crew for
completing an unforgettable trilogy.
