10
What a great film can do to a seemingly ordinary character

Brooklyn is a film about Eilis, who crosses the Atlantic to America in
the 1950s. She is a mildly career-motivated young Irish woman who is
handed a dream opportunity without ever asking for it. Contrary to what
typical immigrant protagonists are like, she neither really works her
way up to success nor once finds herself in a life-and-death situation.
Rather, this film shows us that a woman of just a usual background can
tell an important story that is surprisingly relevant to us all.The main contributor to that surprise is the lead actress, Saoirse
Ronan, who plays her role meticulously while also constantly owning the
tone of the film. Her delicate and sincere portrayal makes all Eilis's
issues, however selfish or insignificant they may seem at first,
materialize in your mind, and makes you hope that her pain will somehow
ease. Already a one-time Oscar nominee, Ronan reaffirms her acting
strength with this exceptional performance. Of all emerging young adult
lead actresses, she is likely the most charismatic one in 5 years since
Jennifer Lawrence in Winter's Bone.From start to finish, Eilis feels just like a girl-next-door. That
homey feeling extends to Emory Cohen's Tony, an Italian plumber she
meets in the New World. With their small height difference, she almost
towers over him in her shoes as they stroll outside, which, helped by
their natural chemistry, gives them the authenticity of a couple that
you might actually know in real life, as opposed to one of Hollywood's
ideal.This film is a remedy for anyone who is losing faith in good
filmmaking. It is a splendid reminder that you can tell a great story
without resorting to excessive twists and effects. With the remarkable
performances from the entire cast, there is hardly a dull minute in the
film, and it only gets more interesting towards the end. Speaking of
the end, Eilis's tips to a new immigrant she meets at the end still
hold very true today. They are not only the best advice that you could
ever hear from anyone, but also evidence that America is and has always
been the land of opportunity.
