10
A sometimes thrilling, very hypnotic, poignant piece of filmmaking.

I can't describe the elation I felt leaving Spring Breakers--truly one
of the best films to hit mainstream cinemas in a long time. It was a
breath of fresh air amidst all the cookie cutter romantic comedies,
dramas, action films, and horror movies that plague modern cinema. The
stamp of a good film is the impact factor--how long it stays with you
when it's over. Spring Breakers was a film that stayed with me long
after leaving the theater. It didn't evaporate from my mind as soon as
I hit the parking lot. This film affects you and leaves you in a mood
long after the credits appear.Those seeking a fun "party film" will be disappointed. The TV ads,
poster, and cast have probably misled some viewers into thinking this
is a cross between The Hangover and Project X. Don't let the cast or
the marketing fool you--this is not a "feel good" movie. It's a dark,
exciting, tragic look at modern youth culture that doesn't so much as
revel in the pop culture sensory overload as hold up a mirror to the
audience so we can see some of ourselves in these kids. And if you're
like me, you'll find this kind of self-reflection very disturbing. More
than once, I was disgusted and enthralled with these characters, not
knowing whether I should feel amused, angry, or sad. This is truly the
best deconstruction of modern culture I've seen.The movie starts with our main quartet of female characters struggling
to find a way around the fact they don't have enough money to travel to
Florida for that much-hyped, almost mythical annual rite of passage
nearly every college kid in the country has to face at some point:
spring break. Selena Gomez is easily the most likable member of the
cast--a young girl struggling to balance her Christian faith and values
in the moral wasteland that is college life. One moment we see her
praying in church, and the next she's passively condoning the fact that
her friends have just robbed a restaurant in order to obtain the rest
of the money they need to make it to Florida. In one poignant
monologue, she speaks of the monotony of life and how everyone is
depressed because they wake up and see the same things every day. Her
desire to go on spring break is almost spiritual in nature--a
soul-searching journey in which she just wants to be someone new and be
free.The spring break party scenes are manic--loud music, hypnotic imagery,
and disorienting colors all come together like some kind of dream. The
fun soon ends once the girls are arrested for using narcotics at a wild
party. They have two options: pay a fine, or remain in jail for another
two days. Out of money and unwilling to call their parents, the girls
languish in jail until a mysterious visitor posts their bail. Enter
James Franco as Alien, a white gangster with gold teeth, dreadlocks,
and a ton of money and guns to go along with his criminal tendencies.
Franco truly breaks out in this performance, becoming someone I never
could have imagined he'd be able to pull off back in his Spider-Man
days. His intentions are murky and the film never misses an opportunity
to make us feel uncomfortable witnessing his interactions with the
girls. It's at this point that the film takes a drastic turn into even
darker territory, the trip slowly proving itself to be more than a few
of them bargained for. Thus begins the tragic slide into the dark
nature of these characters, as they find themselves participating in
and doing things bound to seduce the audience into an awe-struck state
more than once.Not that any of this is told through a conventional narrative. The
whole film feels like one crazy, hypnotic dream, from its use of colors
to its loud, insane score that ranges from romping party fun to
atmospheric, moody pieces that underline the darker moments in the
film. The narrative jumps around in time and space, pasted together
through flashbacks, flash forwards, and repetitive lines that linger in
the back of the viewer's mind like a broken record. The cinematography
is flat out excellent and the filmmakers make perfect use of the
beautiful Florida scenery amidst all the sheer depravity we witness on
screen, with more than a few shots of the beautiful Florida sky and
sunset to remind us of our humanity.By the time the film reaches a delirious montage of violence set to the
unlikely tune of Britney Spears' song Every time, Korine has us hook,
line, and sinker feeling a sense of revulsion and pity for ourselves
and the world at large. Any film that can provoke this type of
uncomfortable self-contemplation deserves to be praised.In the end, I left the theater feeling like I'd just come off an
intense acid trip into the darker recesses of modern culture,
emotionally exhausted and ready to get in my car and drive home in
silence, reflecting on what I'd just seen.If you're not expecting to have fun and aren't afraid to look inside
yourself to that aspect of your personality that craves materialism and
vapid entertainment at the expense of losing some of your humanity, go
and see Spring Breakers. It's truly one of the best films of 2013 (so
far) and will no doubt be a cult classic in years to come. Just don't
blame me if the film haunts you long after it's over.
