1
Brutally bad.

No lie, this was one of the worst movies I've seen in awhile. Thin, dull plot that's already a rehash from a prior film. Paper thin
characters. Zero intellectual or emotional depth. There was nothing
challenging about this story, nothing thought provoking or even
intriguing. Basically, bad guy wants to blow some *beep* up and after a
bunch of explosions and hand-to-hand fights and crappy one liners, he's
stopped by our heroes. The end. This kind of formula occasionally
produces an awesome movie or two, but those movies are usually fresh
and intelligently made in some way that makes them stand out. This movie was not intelligently made, not at all. Seriously, the writing here seemed like a seventh-grader's rendition of
how adults are supposed to act: the Uhura / Spock 'fight' was like a
scene you'd overhear in a middle school hallway or something. It was
laughable. The few moments that should have been stirring sucked
because they were just straight rips from Wrath of Khan. On screen, it seemed like explosions, gunfire, and lens flare dominated
probably 80% of the shots, and the effects looked like something from a
B-grade Xbox game. There was so much CG "action" that it all ended up
being pretty boring. I never felt any sense of danger. Worst of all was
that constantly swelling score with the same series of notes over and
over and over again. You know what I'm talking about. I mean, damn, it
was cool the first couple of times, but when the 18th minor protagonist
triumph was accompanied by this same bombastic progression, I was
curled up in a fetal position. Please, just make it stop. Beyond all of these issues, Star Trek was never supposed to be about
endless violence and effects and one liners. It seems like Abrams has
turned the series into a moderately more upscale version of
Transformers, and it's too bad. There was so much more that could have
been done. So yeah, this movie sucked. A lot. I can't believe the rating it has on
here. I'm starting to wonder if most of the voters work for the studios
or if they've received lobotomies or something...
