1
Hollywood hits the new Low

Alright, so these days it costs $180 millions to make a movie that is
dumber than a game of "action figures" being played by a couple of 5
year old children with mental development issues.There is this script obviously inspired by a set of "Mega Monster vs.
Mega Robot" plastic action figure toys. Then, a bunch of similarly
plastic actors is thrown into the whole mess. Well, this is it! This
awful flick is DUMBER! NOISIER! MORE BOOM AND BANG! MORE FLASHES OF
COLOR LIGHTS!Not that the Pacific Rim movie deserves a discussion or anything, but
the bigger any creature gets, the easier and slower target it becomes.
The tiny, microscopic organisms are truly scary. But any organism
bigger than an elephant stops being dangerous. I will not waste my time
talking about a possible bone mass and strength that a gigantic
creature would require or speculating about a quantity of food needed
to supply energy to a walking tower of flesh. I mean, dinosaurs died
out on their own, because they were way too big (most of them were
pretty big, you know).So, what would stop the military forces from taking down those slow and
huge monsters using tactical nuclear missiles? Do not tell me that a 10
or 20 kiloton warhead would not kill any creature of any size by
essentially evaporating it (with not too much collateral and fallout).
So, what happened to the tactical nukes in this movie? Whoever made
Pacific Rim never heard of such weapons? They demonstrated some F-22
fighter planes (no A-10 attack planes were available?) flying at the
monsters and shooting CANNONS! Well, then the makers of this movie are
dumber than those who volunteered to watch Pacific Rim and then came
here to leave the 10-star reviews! WHY NOT hire any military
consultans??? Anyway, what is this pathetic obsession with the giant
walking robots, transformers and stuff?Go watch this movie and experience your IQ dropping 40-50 points.
Honestly, if movies like this one are made AND watched, then we truly
live under a social system known as IDIOCRACY or probably IDIOTISM.
