1
Did I See The Right Movie??

This is the first time I've seen a movie and felt cheated  genuinely
cheated and lied to! The reason is because 90% of the trailers depicted
Godzilla as a threat, something to fear, the city levelling monster we
all know and love. The trailers were very good at misleading me to
think that it was Godzilla that made all that mess in the woods,
tearing that train in half, causing that fire ball at the airport  but
none of this was to be! It turns out that Godzilla is a boy scout who
protects us innocent little humans when the, apparently very
incompetent, Navy boys are busy miss firing their highest grade weapons
at a bridge full of school buses.At least we get to see Cranston do his thing though! A favourite actor
of mine and almost everyone else in the world!  One of the reasons I
wanted to see this movie! The great Brian Cranston vs. Godzilla! He
will be so good in this film! He's amazing "it wasn't a typhoon!" oh
I'm getting Goosebumps! ... *10 minutes later* ... Nuts!!! Whatever! I
could deal with that, but another major flaw is Godzilla's origin story
in his own (First) movie  it's taken care of by a couple of pictures
and some real smart person telling us that he's been around all this
time, sleeping in the drink! Now this only feels like a slap in the
face to the fans when you realise how much time and effort was put into
the origins of the big, evil, baby having insect. The whole first half
of the film is dedicated to the 'bad guy' alone!  Why did the
filmmakers think we'd care that much?? I guess I could also deal with
that too  it's a Godzilla movie; surely we'll be treated with some
awesome action scenes between the two/three monsters throughout! 
right?? Wrong! The first fight, for whatever reason, cuts away before
we see anything good and all we get is a glimpse on a telly  The
second fight? The same gosh darn thing happens! Just as Godzilla stands
up in the city with his best 'come at me, bro' pose and just as you
finally sit up and think "finally! Something good is going to happen!"
 it cuts away to something far less exciting!  *rolls eyes* And I
guess I could maybe deal with that too  I could deal with all that
stuff and forgive the movie if it had an outstanding climax! You know,
something worthy of the "King of Monsters"  but this was not to be  I
found myself glaring at a dark blank screen that was supposed to be the
climactic battle having no idea what I was looking at  half why
through the "fight" I finally realised something that broke my heart 
this was a bad movie. A bad movie I'd been looking forward to since the
first teaser.The film ended. I had a quick power cry during the credits  and my
brother and I left the cinema wearing our black ties due to the death
of our childlike hopes 'n' dreams we had while walking into the screen
2 hours beforehand.See it if you must! By which I mean someone puts a gun to your head,
walks you to the cinema, buys the tickets and sits next to you the
entire time with his pistol pressed firmly against your temple.Otherwise, save your moneys and time.Peace.
