7
A Fine Film That Needs More Character

'Carol' is a fine film. The juxtaposition of the lavish costumes and
production design with the grainy look of 16mm film sells the film's
old-fashioned aesthetic. It is a well-shot film that is pleasant to
look at. All of the individual performances are pretty good. The best part of the film is the opening sequence. The credits play
over a continuing shot of fifties New York accompanied by Carter
Burwell's fantastic piece 'Opening'. This shot brings us to a scene in
a restaurant. This is a flash-forward that we revisit later on in the
film. Our first sight of the main couple occurs when a man at the bar
looks around the restaurant and spots them at a table. In this shot,
Therese (Rooney Mara) and Carol (Cate Blanchett) are sitting at a
table. Therese is sat facing away from the camera and towards Carol,
who we can see clearly. My immediate reaction to this sight was "Wow,
Cate Blanchett genuinely looks like she's in love." It felt real.Unfortunately, I didn't get this feeling from the rest of the film. I
couldn't feel any chemistry between Therese and Carol. Mara and
Blanchett do their best with what they are given, but they aren't given
enough. Their characters don't feel fleshed out. I didn't feel like I
knew them as people by the end. The film's technical achievements can
only lift a film so high. If you love this film then I'm glad, but I
can't love it when I couldn't grow attached to the characters. This is
especially a problem as this feels like a film driven more by character
than by story.Despite what I have said, this film didn't bore me. Mara and Blanchett
are both engaging actresses who command your attention even if they
aren't given enough to work with. The film is on the slow side but it
goes at the right pace for what director Todd Haynes and screenwriter
Phyllis Nagy were going for. Overall, it was an interesting experience
that felt a bit empty.You can see more reviews at
http://letterboxd.com/lloyd_morgan/films/reviews/
