7
Found-footage Horror 101 - Other movies, take notes.

This is one I was excited for. The found-footage genre has been on life
support for a while now but this one had a cool premise in a great
setting - the catacombs. Seriously, that alone makes the movie worth a
watch if you're a horror fan. The unsettling atmosphere, the
claustrophobia, the creepy imagery, all while delving deeper and deeper
into the Earth.I feel like this is a no brainer but if you're not a found-footage
horror fan then you won't like this one. You've seen it all before and
this is no different. All the usual plot devices and tropes that come
along with the genre are here - it's just executed with finesse. The
setting has a lot to do with it: It sets up the tone of the movie and
keeps that ominous vibe present throughout. There aren't many surprises
to be found here. It's a found-footage movie so it takes a little while
to get going, but once it hits its stride it becomes a truly exciting
adventure to be on. You really get the first person feel in this movie.
They don't need excuses to be documenting this - they're explorers.
We're just watching what they saw. That little sense of believability
goes a long way in helping the movie's credibility and effectiveness. There are few actual scares in As Above So Below. It has an atmosphere
similar to The Descent and keeps the slow eerie pace throughout the
first two acts of the film. That in my opinion is the greatest strength
of this film, and any others of its ilk - the focus on atmosphere
rather than shock horror or jump scares. In the third act, sh*t starts
to go down, and it goes down big time. It's not anything spectacular,
none of the film is honestly, but I was satisfied at the end of this
movie and that's more than I can say about a lot of the found-footage
movies I've seen recently.A pleasant surprise in horror is good acting, and this movie thrives on
it. Even though it takes a while for the movie to kick off, it's fun
being introduced to these characters and starting this adventure with
them because they are convincing in their roles and they actually have
personality. You can identify with the two leads - one is the ambitious
adventurer, the other is the neurotic realist. Then there's the
eccentric and unreliable "tour guide" that introduces them on this
hellish quest. It's just a lot of fun to be a part of this journey
because none of us know what will be waiting for us on the other side.Overall this is just a well made found-footage movie. It has the
chills, it has the thrills, and the added bonuses of good acting and an
excellent premise. Horror fans will certainly get a kick out of it, and
even if you're just looking for a midnight creep movie then As Above,
So Below will not disappoint.
