8
Strange world

This is my review of Doctor Strange (spoiler free) **** (4/5) SINCE 2014s GUARDIANS of the Galaxy stomped all over the box-office
with it's over $800 million boot and Ant-Man repeating the same process
a year later, the Marvel Cinematic Universe have developed quite a
knack for bringing to life virtually unknown origin stories in quite a
spectacular fashion and that brilliant record shows that Doctor Strange
will be no exception. However it may be the weirdest and strangest
addition but by no means it is nonetheless an enjoyable addition as
this cognitive story offers manipulative sorcery, clever screenplay,
mind-melting action and mind-bending CGI it's fair to say that this
will not be forgotten anytime soon. Get the thought out of your head
that you never could see Benedict Cumberbatch in a cape, as he pulls it
off so well along with that and the glorious devil look-a-like goatee
that it looks like he was born to play this role and his brilliant
performance shows it. The whole concept here is that this was strange
from day one and the story written and directed by long time fan and
look-a-like Scott Derrickson using his own vision this origin story is
brilliant, and to put it lightly mind-blowing and is certainly a vast
improvement over his last feature Deliver Us From Evil his vision and
his screenplay are very clever and cognitive as the screenplay alone
will manipulate the mind. In terms of the CGI picture the sorcery of
Harry Potter meets the clever screenplay and the reality defying, world
building dream worlds of Inception and imagine if those two joined
forces and had a baby, well Doctor Strange is that baby weird concept
but that's this in a bag. It may surprise you to know that the insanity that is this movie starts
out ordinary with Dr. Steven Strange (Benedict Cumberbatch) working his
normal shift as a show off neurosurgeon in a hospital along with his
colleague/life partner Dr. Christine Palmer (Rachel McAdams), until he
is the victim of a terrible car crash (might this be a lesson to never
text and drive) and shatters almost every nerve in his hand and has to
undergo several procedures in order to get better. Until he finds an
elegant solution which is nicely done in this addition he has to go to
the stunning Nepal near the Himalaya mountain range and has to learn
the path to power and the kind of responsibilities it holds. However at
some points he almost gives up on life and sees no more strength to
learn but continues on. Naturally some origin stories of this style are terribly rushed and get
to the action rather quickly and although at some points this does take
a while to settle but with the clever screenplay and brilliant time
bending and world building powers it's set out rather well, granted
there are a couple of times when some of the scenes are just stuck
together and some take a while to get with the story but who cares when
the final result and the final battle are so eye achingly impressive,
filled with a kaleidoscope of building splits, moving floors and also a
levitating cape it's almost as if he stepped into a dream world but as
the story goes on he realizes that its all too real. It's quite the spectacle.The first act is used to just settling into the story and introducing
the many characters played by big international players, and also
training with magic which is done in a very intriguing way as the
Ancient One (Tilda Swinton) shows him the powers of the mind and he
looks very impressed as he has gone from a none believer to becoming a
learner – this scene is both inventive and has a colourful kaleidoscope
which looks amazing in 3D. The second and third acts are when the world
literally turns upside down for Doctor Strange as he has to face
Kaecilius (Mads Mikkelsen) and a great and powerful entity that he
serves but he learns that his power is stronger than he thinks.
Interestingly Kaecilius gives Doctor Strange some advice and also a
shock which we won't spoil. During the second act there is a beautiful
training lesson with Mordo (Chiwetel Ejiofor) – this is brilliantly
done with some very inventive CGI that shows the way he moves looking
like he is flying. At one point there is a battle that has never been
seen before in any film of this style and that is an astral projection
battle between Strange and Lucian (Scott Adkins), which is just a gob
smacking few minutes during the battle, and while they are at it they
scare Christine this adds a bit of comedy to the scene. The clever
screenplay also adds some hilarious moments where they are needed
proving that the director can make a serious film with insane CGI and
even add some comedy to the final production.Doctor Strange may be one of the strangest and possibly the most insane
addition to the Marvel Cinematic Universe but is still nonetheless
entertaining and this proves that Marvel are keeping a better record
with kick-ass origin stories, that are a spectacular CGI f**kathon and
if the end result is this entertaining then that is a record that shall
continue for decades, much better than the record currently obtained by
the DCEU who at the moment need a miracle to overcome the disastrous
films they've made lately. Easily one of the best films this year and
shall be remembered for ages and who knows may even repeat the
box-office record set by Guardians of the Galaxy and Ant-Man. This is a
strange world.VERDICT: The Marvel Cinematic Universe shines again with manipulative
sorcery and cognitive storytelling as this may be the strangest
addition but still delivers some kick-ass entertainment.8/10 powerfully manipulative.
