2
I "get" Wes Anderson but still think it's a poor film!

I was genuinely looking forward to seeing this, especially as I hadn't
previously seen a Wes Anderson film, which appeared a major gap in my
experience. I have to say that I found it the most dull, unengaging
film I have seen for some time, but I acknowledge the difficulty of
being critical of a film that so many consider exceptionally good. It's
interesting, though, to see that there are a relatively small number of
comments here that articulate the same reservations that I had.In case I was missing something fundamental, I have since read up on
Anderson's career and approach and I can see that he has his own
distinctive trademark. But is that really such a positive thing? Some
of the greatest directors manage to put their own stamp on a film by
using their expertise to draw you in (and thereby make you forget who
the director is) rather than via an obsessive need to make practically
every frame indicative of their style. OK, Anderson likes (e.g.)
particular colours and very precise compositions within the frame - and
perhaps his fans enjoy spotting such elements - but why should that
increase the enjoyment of the viewer? I was intrigued by the potential
of the story but I felt all the dramatic potential was lost due to it
being secondary to Anderson's quirky and unreal world. E.g. Why does it
enhance the film for the characters to display so little emotion and
never smile? Why is there a need for distorting lenses? I'm amazed that so many consider the film romantic. Even considering
that the kids are supposed to be somewhat disturbed, it's notable that
they display so little affection for each other, even when saying "I
love you" with absolutely no warmth. Like others here, I was also
uneasy about a film (especially a comedy) having scenes with two 12
year olds in their underwear kissing, with the girl inviting the boy to
touch her breasts and commenting on his erection. I wonder if all those
praising the film for being "cute" and for its depiction of "innocence"
would be equally relaxed about their children of similar ages (if they
have them) having a similar relationship? Doesn't this send the wrong
message to adults watching? Those emphasising the "innocence" also seem
to have overlooked the boy using a fish hook to pierce the girl's ears,
the other boy that was stabbed and the dog that was killed, or is all
that OK because it's 'A Wes Anderson Film' and the fans are in on the
joke? I accept that this review will have no impact on the fans that love the
film, but I'm still inclined to assume that so many like Anderson's
style - and the unreal world he creates - that they are prepared to
gloss over the lack of substance. But if you haven't seen the film yet
and intend to do so, I would urge you to genuinely watch it with an
open mind and not be swept along into thinking that if you don't like
an Anderson film, you lack an appreciation for subtlety and 'indie'
cinema. You may instead have noticed the unlikeable characters, the
irritatingly theatrical staging, the not particularly funny in-jokes,
etc, etc.
