1
12 Years Asleep

Once again Hollywood waves its sanctimonious wand over history with
this glossy movie about slavery in the United States. Like a
self-righteous teetotaler telling off an alcoholic, it is a
sentimental, holier-than-thou piece that challenges you to criticize it
or 'you're a racist too'. Following in the footsteps of Django it uses
the excuse of history and a worthy theme to justify gratuitous scenes
of violence. The film begins in the home of the central character,
Solomon Northop, a free black man, who lives a genteel life with his
family in New York. The director is clearly eager to get to the gory
bits though, and within the first ten minutes Solomon has been
kidnapped, enslaved, and the audience is cringing under a close up of
his contorted face during a twenty minute whipping scene; the first of
many to come. The film continues in this vein, as we follow Solomon's journey through
an array of increasingly evil slave-owners. There is a segregation of
personality in the film, with most of the black characters being good
and moral and the white ones evil. Surely it is as patronizing and
insulting to assume personality is dependent on colour as it is
politically correct. At least the same cannot be said of gender, the
white women are as evil as their male counterparts. However no film
about slavery is complete without our token good white guy, and Brad
Pitts rises to the occasion, strolling in bearded and ready to play,
once again, the hero.One does wonder why Solomon doesn't send a letter under his
'mistress'name on one of his frequent forays to the shop. (Of course,
his one attempt to run away is thwarted when after two steps he
stumbles on a lynching scene). Perhaps the point the director is trying
to make is that Solomon is too broken and scared to do this. He is too
proud, however, to pick the cotton quota demanded by the sadistic
slave-owner. A necessary contradiction perhaps, as this allows more
whipping scenes as he is punished daily.Or why, instead of trying and failing to write a letter with a blunt
bamboo stick and watery juice, he doesn't simply use the candle end and
stain the paper instead. But it is not a film for the details. Nor the
historical overview.It is two hours of increasing brutality, culminating with a horrendous
scene where one girl is whipped until her flesh is exposed. Instead of
taking one of the many examples of modern day slavery however, which
could leave people feeling guilty at inaction, it is set far enough in
the past that it allows the audience to do their cinema time, and leave
feeling as worthy and sanctimonious as the director.
