1
What happened to movie? G.I. Joe: Retaliation is ALL BRAWN, and NO BRAIN.

It's amazing how many good movies produced this year have been
relegated to sub-par status, while others that shouldn't be given a
glance are given zenith status as great pieces of work, art, and other
such pop-cultural sub- standard excrescences achieve more than their
worth in fool's gold. One such picture - I'm sorry - movie, that
audiences will endure a release of, either glorifyingly, or harshly, is
G.I. Joe: Retaliation, the new brawn packed action farce from Paramount
Pictures.Starring Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson, and with appearances by Bruce
Willis and Channing Tatum, the film offers no social commentary,
consists of nothing remotely engaging (I tended to doze off on even the
action scenes), and pities itself with egregious CGI 3-D effects that
disappear mid-air depending on where one sits in the audience. There is
no basis for being an audience member, because the effects are so
jarring, that the viewer will not be able to involve itself to anything
worth sitting for an hour and forty minutes for (which trust me, there
wouldn't be anyway.) But that's not the half of the film's problems.The real problem stems from lack of plot. More like no plot. The film
is supposed to be a sequel, or rather, a continuation of the original
G.I. Joe: Rise of the Cobra, but even by todays standards, the
filmmakers weren't trying to mark any new ground. All we get is one
action sequence after another. Even James Cameron knows you need a
through-line of plot device to make these kinds of movies work, but
director Jon M. Chu doesn't have enough respect for the audience to
even give them that. Instead, we are mindlessly treated to fast shots
of punches being thrown, with no idea who is throwing them, why, or if
we should care. Seriously. We only know one thing. The good guys will always win. Never
a good sign when you go to the movies to know how they end, with no
conscious minding of what it will take to get there. Don't waste your
money, my friends. Still, more muscular contractions ache this bastard
of a performer.Those involved knew this was just a paycheck - examine the evidence;
Dennis Quaid did not return, and subsequently they need Bruce Willis to
carry the big name legacy. Channing Tatum has his screen time
terminally reduced, not a great sign because most audiences will
probably be wanting to see the film solely for his performance. The
writer was clearly hired to write a how-to on perfecting scripts for
CGI based stories. This wouldn't be such an insult to film purists and
enthusiasts alike if it wasn't such a dreary waste of time and money.
There is nothing there in terms of story or structure. The movie
starts, and it's action scenes strung together with no link. Then you
leave. I would disclose such a plot to entice what viewers may
challenge the notion of wasting their money if such a plot existed!
It's a disgusting practice of show-off acrobatics by computer geniuses
that would be better suited decrypting or ciphering codes left behind
from the Zodiac Killer or the Unabomber! This is not why we go to the
movies. We go to be entertained, and I predict that many an audience
member be robbed of their hard earned cash in this recession, and by
such standards and caused an equal recession in film quality! Honestly,
there has to be a better place for films in today being tomorrow's
history, than this!An early release for such a seemingly summer blockbuster - it's obvious
Paramount wants to get this one out of the way, so they don't have to
worry about a summer release tanking to the bottom of the swimming pool
(a place where the pre-teens normally disposed to this mendicant tar
would be better off spending the day.) It's futile to promote a product
without any real integrity, or so I thought. Amazing what a little
muscle can do. It's already seen some couple million smackers (across
the face!) for it's previews and advance releases, but when it all
comes down, G.I. Joe: Retaliation is one hunk of movie that holds a
strong PR campaign in it's biceps, but can't think for itself, and
never latches on to the timeless fact that the real strength of a movie
lies in it's story and it's characters, both factors of the machine
that are simultaneously weak.
