1
The Work of a Genius !

You will, I sincerely hope, not be offended if I were to speculate that
you were enticed into inquiring into this movie and, for that matter,
even reading this very review, because of the movie's title, yes? And
the title obviously reflects on the movie's content which is focused on
the reproductive arts. And, I shall further speculate that were the
movie instead titled, say, "Existentialism" or such, and the story
concerned a group of nuns who begin to question their faith, you
wouldn't be reading this at all, would you?Of course you know that von Trier is a celebrated director, but you
didn't quite get around to seeing his masterpiece Dogville, did you?
Nor, I suspect, have you seen his quirky 2007 cinema, The Boss of It
All. In fact, the only reason you are even remotely interested in
"Nymphomaniac" is that it depicts venery in an explicit manner.
Confess! It's all true, isn't it?Wait! Keep reading! Don't go away! It's OK! I know you're not like
that, because you have standards. You would never watch or read porn.
That's so . . . so . . . so >degrading< and low-class. But since you're
a mature adult, very open minded and not bound by the strictures of
organized religion, you have no objection to serious cinema with erotic
content, do you? I mean, as long as it's tastefully done?I'm here to assure you that "Nymphomaniac" is >not< pornography,
because none of the actresses (or actors, mustn't be sexist here) have
had any breast augmentation, nor do they wear cosmetics in the manner
of slatternly women. For that matter, rest secure in the knowledge that
absolutely nothing arousing occurs during any of the movie. No pleasure
whatsoever, so it's safe. Your dog could watch it and not begin to look
at you funny.That's why von Trier is, without question, an absolute genius. Sex is
one of the few natural pleasures we enjoy here in this vale of tears,
and just as the finest minds of industry have ruined the joys of
victualry and turned the simple act of eating into a problem, the
brilliance of of von Trier is that he has ruined sex. "Joe," the
protagonist of the movie, has sex frequently, but she doesn't enjoy it
at all, and von Trier does his best to make certain that you don't
either. If you think about it, that's not such an easy feat. Suppose that you
were given a camera, a crew and a group of attractive actors who don't
mind nudity and simulating sex acts and were told to make a movie
depicting venery, it would be difficult for you to make something
completely unpleasant to watch. But von Trier has accomplished
something you could never do: in this movie, no one has any pleasure.
ex is presented as something perverse and unpleasant. "Joe" only
engages in it because she's emotionally disturbed, or because her
domineering girlfriend made her do it, or because of some Freudian
mumbo- jumbo, and she obviously dislikes each experience, starting with
the first brief penetration that hurts her. >SPOILER ALERT!< Don't fall for the brief scenes near the end, of her
actually enjoying her three lovers. Those are fantasies she tells in
response to having Bach played for her. The music of J. S. Bach is the
sublime representation of empyreal purity, and Bach fathered twenty
children, so it's good, clean, church-sanctioned, procreative sex, not
the naughty fun kind. (Ooo, look! He's bathing her! How lovely! How
clean! How innocuous! What movie is this?) But as soon as the music
stops, she announces, while in union, "I feel nothing." The hypothetical sex movie you would write and direct would be unlikely
to have acting that is as bland, tedious and affectless as the acting
in "Nymphomaniac," but that's the way Lars von Trier wants it, because
viewing good acting would be a pleasure to watch, and he wants to drain
anything enjoyable out. I can imagine him shouting direction, "No! No!
Make it even more lifeless! More monotonous!" An obvious exception to this is the salient performance by Uma Thurman,
but in that scene, the fine actress is introduced for the sole purpose
of making a deliberately unpleasant situation even more disturbing. It
goes on for an excruciatingly long time, because von Trier wants to rub
your nose in the message: sex ruins lives and makes people miserable.
The scene is comedic, but only in the way slapstick is.Von Trier is not the first director to make a movie depicting sex as
repulsive. The late Ken Russell also wrote and directed movies with
that effect. Like this movie, Russell's movies were also promoted by
ads and posters featuring an enticing shot of a woman in ecstasy, but
that was just to lure you in. The movie itself taught you a lesson of
rue. It is, after all, the glorious puritanical heritage of those of us
of Northern European descent. We're not like those filthy people down
there in the tropical climes, going at it like they was rabbits. Shame,
shame, double shame on their gratification and pleasure! No wonder God
punishes them!All the enthusiastic reviews here are written under the pretense that
there is some profound message embedded in this movie (especially the
bedpan scene). The profound message is that sex must be presented
strictly in terms of social isolation and as a manifestation of
emotional disturbance. "Joe," represents all the repressed feelings of
guilt and shame metastasizing deep within you. After all, if sex were
depicted in a uniformly joyous light, you'd have to go to some sleazy
site where they'd rip-off your credit card information.
