6
A triumphant story on Vinny. But the film is slightly dull.

Bleed for This a sports drama based on the champion boxer Vinny
Pazienza and the accident that almost left him paralyzed. It does not
stop him on the road to recovery in training to get back into the
boxing ring. These films are suppose to make you feel a little
inspirational seeing real life situations happening to real people. The
film does show very little for the inspiration. Vinny (Miles Teller) is a cocky boxer, who rigs his body weight to meet
the requirements. After the car accident, that leaves him wearing a
halo ring on his neck for six months to recover. And the doctors
telling him he is unable to ever go back in the ring. He spends his
day, eating junk food, watching day time TV, going to strip clubs, and
hanging out with his personal trainer Kevin (Aaron Eckhart). Vinny
decides that he needs to work harder to train himself to get back into
the ring against the doctors wishes. The positive things about Bleed for This is it tries to have a fun
sense of 1980s direction with the music soundtrack. Also, the
inspirational true story about a boxer never letting a severe injury
from stopping him to doing what he is inspired to do. The climax of the
boxing match as Vinny is risking himself from severing his spinal cord
from a single bad throw that can paralyze him was cringe worthy. Also,
Miles Teller did a great job in portraying Vinny Pazienza. Aaron
Eckhart playing a balding out of shape trainer was also good. The negative thing about the film besides knowing how the turn out and
what will happen to the character ends. I felt like the direction could
have been a little stronger with its inspirational tone. The film does
so well in trying to have a fun 80s tone, or delivering great
performances with the cast. To make you feel for the moment and making
it memorable unlike the others does not have much going for the movie.
It can get pretty slow in the middle of the film until Vinny tries to
lift weights while recovering. The music score Julia Holter does so
little in making a memorable score besides having a couple of beat down
80s song. Overall, Bleed for This is a fair sports drama film that has good
talent, and an inspired concept but does so little with trying so hard
on making the movie emotional. The hard recovery the boxer went through
will be inspired as a strong motivation but the film sadly will easily
be forgotten. I will rate the film 3 out of 5 stars.
