7
It's a horror movie that most B-horror fans can enjoy.

'WISH UPON': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five)The new supernatural horror flick about a girl that gets a strange
music box from her father, that she realizes will grant her seven
wishes. She also later learns though, that there's a very violent and
horrific price for every wish. The film was directed by John R.
Leonetti (who's also helmed other horror flicks like 'ANNABELLE' and
'THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT 2'), and it was written by Barbara Marshall (who
also wrote the horror flick 'VIRAL', from last year). The movie stars
Joey King, Ryan Phillipe, Elisabeth Rohm, Ki Hong Lee, Sydney Park,
Shannon Purser, Mitchell Slaggert and Sherilyn Fenn. The screenplay was
voted to the 2015 Black List, and the film was made on a budget of just
$12 million. It's received mostly mediocre reviews from critics, and
viewers, but I enjoyed it.Clare Shannon (King) is a high school student that's constantly picked
on by the popular girls at school, and she's also severely embarrassed
by her 'dumpster diving' father (Phillipe). Her mother (Rohm) committed
suicide too, when Clare was young, and Clare is still traumatized by
it. Then one day her dad brings her home a mysterious music box, that
he found in a dumpster, which says it will grant her seven wishes.
Clare decides to entertain the fantastical idea, and then she's amazed
when her wishes start coming true. Then Clare becomes haunted by the
box though, when people start dying (seemingly) as a result of her
making wishes.I enjoy horror movies, especially really good quality thrillers, but
even B-horror flicks too. This is definitely a B-horror movie, but for
me it was a lot of fun. I could really relate to Clare, and the concept
of the movie is really interesting to me as well. I'd even go see a
sequel (which the film is definitely set up for). The death scenes also
reminded me a lot of the 'FINAL DESTINATION' franchise, which I also
liked (at least at first). I think this is a horror movie that most
B-horror fans can enjoy (like I definitely did).Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/Mg3uG2FLNSE
