5
Indie-style RomCom rates a "Meh"

Calvin (Paul Dano) is a financially successful writer who lives alone
with his dog. Calvin suffers from writer's block and hasn't recovered
from the demise of his previous relationship. He spends his days moping
around his LA Mansion and occasionally hanging out with his brother
Harry (Chris Messina). Who can break Calvin's writer's block and drag
him out of his self-imposed exile back into the sunlight of real life?
Why, a manic pixie dream-girl, of course! The eponymous Ruby (played by
Zoe Kazan who also wrote the screenplay) is a literally a dream girl
since she first appears in Calvin's dreams the comes to life as he
writes about her. In fact, it turns out that Calvin controls her
behavior by writing about her. Will he seek to control her or will he
"set her free"? This is the slender thread on which the movie hangs.Ruby Sparks is an indie-style treatment of a Hollywood rom-com gimmick.
It has some charm and a salutary (if somewhat hackneyed) message about
the need to "give someone space" if you want to have a successful
relationship. While its heart is in the right place, there is a major
problem with the main character. Calvin is presented as so emotionally
blocked that he can't form any relationships. His only significant
romantic relationship as collapsed and he literally has no friends
other than his brother. It hard to believe that such a stunted
personality could write a coherent laundry list, much less a great
novel which is beloved by millions. It is even harder to sympathize
with his "poor little rich boy" problems. Furthermore, Calvin is
apparently estranged from his mother (Annette Bening) and his
stepfather (played by Antonio Banderas having fun hamming it up as a
Big Sur dropout) for no apparent reason other than to make him even
more mopey and estranged.So, five stars for Zoe Kazan's and Antonio Banderas' performances and
some fleeting moments of charm. Not a movie to avoid, but not one to
seek out either.
