9
A masterpiece that's tough, tender and thoughtful, anchored by a love story for the ages.

These days, it's hard to be surprised by a love story in a film. There
shouldn't even be much of a surprise to the love story that forms the
heart and soul of CAROL – anyone who walks into the cinema will know
that this is The Movie In Which Cate Blanchett And Rooney Mara Play
Lesbians. And yet, Todd Haynes' masterful, intoxicating film unfolds in
a series of small, subtle surprises, culminating in one of the most
profoundly affecting romances ever committed to film.New York, in the early 1950s. Therese (Mara) is working as a shopgirl
in the toy section of a department store. She meets and serves dozens
of people, but only one catches her eye: Carol (Blanchett), a poised,
polished and seemingly perfect example of the many wives and mothers
who frequent the store. On Therese's recommendation, Carol buys a model
train set for her daughter Rindy: an unusual Christmas present for a
little girl that swiftly draws a connection between the two women.Over the next hour, CAROL shades colour and complexity into the world
in which Carol and Therese live. When they find each other again
through a pair of gloves misplaced by accident (or, perhaps, design),
the two women share lunch, and a tune played on a piano. Carol invites
Therese to her family home and, eventually, on a road trip that changes
everything. Therese confesses her love of photography, and begins to
ask awkward questions of Richard (Jake Lacy), her devoted, if somewhat
callous, boyfriend. Through it all, Carol's marriage to Harge (Kyle
Chandler) crumbles apart, despite the fierce love they share for their
daughter. For much of its running time, Haynes' film – an adaptation of Patricia
Highsmith's groundbreaking second novel, The Price Of Salt – unfolds at
a deliberately unhurried pace that might alienate some, and bore
others. Dramatic outbursts are kept to a bare minimum, chiefly coming
from a raging Harge as he tries ever more desperately to cajole (or
bully) Carol into remaining by his side. The growing tenderness between
Carol and Therese deepens, not through flowery confessions of undying
love, but in the exchanging of tentative glimpses, glances and smiles. And yet, the heartbreaking magic woven throughout CAROL comes from
precisely these understated, measured moments. The aching, all-
consuming affection between Carol and Therese blossoms in the film's
pockets of silence, as they study each other in a mirror, or share a
conspiratorial smile over breakfast. Threats of death and danger
surface, but in purely emotional terms, resonating all the more
powerfully for never being literal. Indeed, it's only when the film
slips into its devastating final act – which simultaneously manages to
warm hearts and shatter souls – that one begins to realise just how
bewitching a spell CAROL has cast in the silences and in-betweens.To top it all off, there is so much at work in Phyllis Nagy's
wonderfully spare script that CAROL practically begs to be excavated,
pored over and studied at length. The love story at its heart works
because CAROL is a film about two women who are making their way
towards each other through a world that often refuses to understand,
accept or acknowledge them: not just as potential lovers, but also as
people. Entire novels can be written about the film's excellent
feminist and queer credentials, particularly when it comes to shining a
spotlight on its women and their relationships (including a powerful
supporting turn by Sarah Paulson as Abby, Carol's best friend and
erstwhile paramour). It seems profoundly unnecessary to say that CAROL's trump card is
Blanchett. It should be self-evident, a given – after all, for as long
as she has made movies, she has unquestionably been the best thing
about any film she's in. And yet, she is completely transcendent here.
In Blanchett's hands, Carol manages to be unearthly – an exalted
goddess on a pedestal – and utterly, completely human at the same time.
In a wonderfully layered final scene with Harge, Carol's controlled
composure cracks apart, revealing the punishing depth of the pain she
must undergo in order to be true to herself. Blanchett conveys it all
with heartbreak to spare, radiating love, joy, misery or despair with
barely perceptible changes in expression.Mara, meanwhile, gives her finest performance to date. Her Therese
lingers quietly at the edges of her own life, not so much pushing
limits as slipping past them to find her own way. It's hard to shake
the feeling, though, that Mara remains outclassed by her co-star.
Unlike Carol, Therese never completely coalesces as a character in her
own right. To be fair to Mara, that's partly due to one of the script's
few flaws. In a film that is otherwise so subtle and considered, we are
too often told rather than shown that Carol finds Therese irresistible.
(There is no such problem in believing that anyone could fall head over
heels for Carol.) Nevertheless, the chemistry between Blanchett and Mara burns, slowly
but brightly. The electricity between them throws off more sparks as
the film goes on – to the point that audiences will find their hearts
stuttering and stopping at the tiniest of moments: when Carol presses
her hand lightly on Therese's shoulder, or when their eyes meet,
finally, across a crowded room.In all of these elements, and in ways big and small, CAROL constantly
surprises. It could have been ripely melodramatic; instead, it lingers
in a key of melancholy realism. In another universe, Carol might have
been more manipulative, Harge more villainous, Therese more coquettish,
the love story less compelling and more titillating. The film's themes
could have overwhelmed its central romance. And yet, in every gorgeous
frame (composed with impeccable grace by cinematographer Edward
Lachman), CAROL sings of its love story: one that is as sweet as it is
bitter, as simple as it is complex, and as real as it is magical.
