2
disappointed

Disappointment.Let me start by saying "Monsters Inc." was one of my favourite movies
when I was younger and still stands in my top three Pixar films with
"The Incredibles" and "A Bug's Life" ('COUGH' Seven Samurai 'COUGH').
So I went into this film with high expectations. I don't know why. I
should'v known what to expect from a university based prequel.Where "Monsters Inc." succeeded was where most Pixar films succeed,
it's originality. "Monsters Inc." is one of the most original ideas
ever conceived, a story centerd around monsters in an alternate monster
universe that travel through closet door portals to the human world to
scare children to generate energy for their world. It doesn't get much
more original then that. And the originality stopped dead there,
because the last thing this prequel has is originality.For starters there were barely any new characters... I should rephrase,
no new characters worth remembering or caring about. The only main new
characters added were complete stereotypical university centred
characters, the geeks and the jocks, and in their most generic forms.
Oh and don't forget the overly strict administrator who (Surprise,
Surprise) shows caring by the end of the film having a change of heart
and doesn't seem so mean after all. And of course the stereotypical
dumb/naive, easily excitable mother figure.The most promising thing about this movie was seeing the transition for
Randal. When he came into the movie (not really a spoiler he's in the
trailer and it's in the first ten minutes) he's nice, so I was excited
to see his transition to becoming the villain we see him as in
"Monsters Inc." and let me tell you (possible spoiler ahead, jump to
next paragraph if you want absolutely nothing spoiled) it was vastly
disappointing. It was literally two scenes: one where he just outwardly
tells Mike he wants to be popular so he can't hang with him anymore.
And the next is he's in the opposing team in a competition against Mike
and Sully and loses and then says "that's the last time I lose to you,
Sullivan" I was heart-brokenly disappointed at this. To me it actually
belittled Randal as a villain in the original because suddenly he just
didn't seem that evil anymore now knowing that it all stemmed from him
losing once against Sully in University and wanting to be popular. They
at least could'v developed it further...more than two scenes at least.The rest of the movie was just countless predictable plot points. It's
the age old university centred movie story of rival houses having a
competition (Screw it there's going to be spoilers, I'm angry and ready
to rant) and of course Mike and Sully start off not being friends and
what'ya know it they become friends because, common, I know you know
this one... Yeahp, that's right! They discover they have to work
together to succeed at things instead of trying to do it on their own
and it brings them together...because we haven't seen that in a dozen
Disney movies already. AND THAT'S IT! There's literally nothing more
than that. The first movie was so groundbreaking and had such amazing
scale and then they just took those characters, put them in university,
and told a story we'v all heard plenty of times before.It wasn't even that funny. I can remember laughing out loud once: a
slug monster is late for class and starts trying to run but he just
goes really slow and they pull the whole "Family Guy" joke goes on
longer than expected and I admittedly laughed quite long and loud. But
that's it. The rest I could recognize it was supposed to be funny but
it just didn't work for me. I was probably just too disappointed to
laugh.The one redeeming thing about this movie (ULTIMATE SPOILER) is at the
end they get expelled, which I didn't expect. It shows in a montage
that they found their own way to work at Monsters Inc. showing that
university isn't necessarily the only option, which I think is a good
message to send to the young people of today (considering most are
brainwashed the opposite).But that was it. The rest of the movie was just constantly predictable
and disappointing. They had such great material to work with and it's
like they didn't even try. I felt like I was watching a Disney channel
show that was a spin off of one of their well known movies, or like a
made for TV movie. It was the equivalent of Shrek's Christmas
special...only I expect something like that from Dreamworks after
seeing Shrek 2...and 3...and 4. Pixar is the last group of people I
would call unimaginative, and yet here I am. They should'v left it at
the original if they weren't willing to do something fresh with it. I
think Pixar should stick to original films and stay away from
sequels/prequels. Yes, they struck gold with Toy Story 3 apparently
(I'm the only person who hasn't seen it yet), but that doesn't mean
everything else needs a sequel...and yes "Plains" counts as a sequel to
"Cars", I don't care what you say. Actually I wouldn't mind a sequel to
"The Incredibles"...okay, if you're going to make a sequel make sure
it's WORTH making and you're not just making a sequel for the sake of
making it with no real original exciting story to tell. I expect other
movies to make sequels without putting too much thought into if they're
worth making, because they know people will see them and they'll make
money. But not Pixar, they were the last production company I'd expect
to do that. A sequel/prequel should be able to stand on it's own, this
prequel barely stands on the shoulders of the original, it wobbles at
best.I'm just so...Disappointed.
