4
It Hits the Right Keys, but is Still a Rather Monotonous Tune

Well, I can certainly understand why the Golden Globes loved
Illumination's thespian-infested movie. ​ Based around something as
universally understood as music, Sing seems to be an appropriate
first-time directing effort by the duo Christopher Lourdelet and Garth
Jennings (who directed live action before). The result of their hard
work brings a passable accomplishment by the studio's sixth ever
full-length feature, even if no studio gamechanger nonetheless.The feature takes place in an unnamed San Fran-Los Angeles-esque city
painted by Miami, home to many anthropomorphic mammals, reptiles,
birds, primates, household pets, cephalopods, arachnids, and whales. We
focus on six mammals: one a producer, five the lucky choices for his
theater-saving singing competition. Plenty celebrity voices deliver
occasionally terrific singing, although the minor roles' unfitting
voices draw back the overall quality. Surprisingly however, the
anthropomorphic individuals' subplots are all masterfully balanced in
their yearnings on the road to fame and fortune:Buster Moon the koala (Matthew McConaughey) wants to keep the theater
financially stable after his father passed down the torch. Despite
being the lead, he is the least interesting cast member, more existing
to vocalize the cliché morals. Though he still plays great off the more
colorful characters, including his dimwitted senior secretary, Miss
Crawly the iguana.Rosita the pig (Reese Witherspoon) wants to follow her passion away
from her uncaring husband and twenty-five children. She soon meets
unexpected challenges when the competition pairs her with an overly
optimistic pig named Gunter. This widely marketed chunk of ham
shockingly gets little stage time; and I should also mention how he
flaunts an indistinguishable European accent exaggerated to the point
of annoyance. The immature will worship him like Moccus, leaving adults
to gag a bit while watching an overweight swine in a unitard
stereotyping western culture.Johnny the gorilla (Taron Egerton) wants to escape his father's
criminal lifestyle, and follow his heart for the microphone. Boys
across all ages will relate to this highly soulful musician, despite a
phoned in resolution to his subplot.Ash the porcupine (Scarlett Johansson) seeks public appreciation
alongside her boyfriend/musical partner. While her story feels
relatively unengaging compared to the others, she still brings a nice
voice, especially when her guitar strums electrify her quills to the
point of showering out.Mike the mouse (Seth MacFarlane) needs the prize money to pay back a
bear gang who see him as a tasty meal. His ratty account maybe could
have benefited from higher stakes against the law; but it does not
matter anyway, for this crude comedian providing the voice amazingly
makes a tiny crooner so ruggedly lovable with some spice thrown in.Meena the elephant (Tori Kelly) cannot pursue her love for singing, as
her glossophobia gets in the way, with no thanks to her arrogant
grandfather. She has the most poorly balanced yet easily relatable
experience for all the boys and girls facing a similar fear.Together, doubt gets conquered in a unified walk to fame and fortune.
So who ends up winning the competition?It doesn't matter! They are all too introspective to notice one
another, as these well-rounded individual stories have zero
interweaving amongst one another. In the end, Sing cares less about
teamwork, and more about getting children to worship the most popular
hits by Lady GaGa, Katy Perry, Taylor Swift, Carly Rae Jepsen, and
everyone else out there (just stay through the credits, the list of
songs used lasts over a minute). It doesn't matter if the human artist
singles are sung by cute little animals; accompanied by predictable
fart jokes, evidence proves why this movie aims squarely toward kids
with an affinity of music over rules, offering the parents nothing more
than a few scattered chuckles to at least manage without booing the
artist offstage.
