2
Things that go "Ahhhhh!" in a laughably unscary manner in the night

Insidious was an ace haunted house film although it did get a bit silly
towards the end. The family are back and still getting haunted. James
Wan made the excellent The Conjuring and was clearly putting all of his
effort into that. So maybe he was too focused on that to actually
direct this film at all. The first was excellent; yet this is a
laughably awful and heartbreakingly lazy follow up. It had the same
cast, same good director and some good trailers. How did this happen?
James Wan has a few filmmaking tricks up his sleeve, and there are a
couple of good scares. The rest of the time, it's a long, boring slog
towards a monumentally convoluted and clichéd conclusion. As toys go
beep beep in the night, pianos play by themselves, ghosts shriek,
people stand around and explain the plot, fog obscures everything and
the ghosts do more shrieking, don loads of white face paint, do their
best Captain Jack Sparrow impersonations and go ludicrously over the
top I nearly switched it off. And I never turn films off once I've
started.Insidious Chapter 2 is like an F grade film studies exercise where the
task was to make the audience jump. The film is composed of jarring
jump scares which drain the tension and at times the film is
unintentionally hilarious. The script is dreadful: It consists of
exposition, jump scares and.... that's it. The acting is awful as well
and it is difficult to get behind the haunted family when all you want
them to do is head to the nearest acting class. Virtually every aspect
of it is lazy, clichéd and underwhelming. Every thing in this film has
been seen before and there aren't any surprises. It doesn't even want
to be its own movie. It spends a good chunk trying to tie up loose ends
from the first film. IC2 is one of the worst horror sequels I've seen.
It's probably not one of the worst as I haven't seen that many horror
sequels but this is a waste of everyone's time. Rather offensively, a
third installment is on the way and this has a 6.6 rating on IMDb.
LAME.2/10
