2
Being immortal, like, sucks

Just when you thought Twilight had lowered the already-exhausted
vampire trope to the level of gum-cracking, teenage faux-ennui, along
comes the insufferable Jim Jarmusch to kick it while it's down. In the
process he creates this meaningless mess of self-absorbed Romantic
pretension and contemporary decay-porn.Adam and Eve(really?)mope through the movie recalling, Forrest
Gump-like, all the famous people they have met throughout history,
name-dropping like two desperate party-crashers at a Billysburg hipster
event. Their irrelevant sidekick, Christopher Marlowe, turns out to be
the REAL Shakespeare, so John Hurt (who has become the white Samuel
L.Jackson lately, popping up everywhere) gets to spend the film
alternating between false humility and 400 year old bitterness. This
silliness reaches its apex when Marlowe squats to lay the hammy
observation that if only he had met Adam BEFORE he wrote Hamlet.....This is the dialogue of a first-year Arts student with a crush on his
prof, trying to be iconoclastic and deep in case she likes him back.Adam and Eve are omnipresent and omniscient, on one hand spewing the
most obscure scientific theories, having musical debates and history
lessons (of course they both prefer old-school sound and instruments),
yet somehow juvenile and myopic enough to label mortals "zombies", as
if being alive for millennia has taught them nothing except how to act
and speak like navel-gazing teenagers who are simultaneously above it
all, yet offended by everything.Adam apparently sprung fully-formed from the head of Anne Rice's
Lestat; a prodigious musician, beautiful, a walking romantic tragedy.
Unlike Lestat's crotch-grabbing alpha-male God of Rock, however, Adam
is pure Emo -- whiny, self-absorbed, condescending, and unintentionally
funny in his shallow earnestness. Like all people of such ilk, the
further he tries to distance himself from the great unwashed the more
he becomes all too human. When you prick him he bleeds, when you tickle
him he laughs, when you poison him, he dies, which turns out to be
literal here as he and Eve are constantly on the hunt for clean blood.
The zombies after all, are so stupid they have ruined their very blood
with disease.His dependency on the zombies, both as the Other from whom he must
rebel, as well as source of his nourishment, recalls every arrogant and
ostentatious university student that has ever lived. His entire
identity is invested in the society against which he must fight. There
is nothing internal to fall back on, no sense of self. Like all whining
hipsters, he is merely a vessel through which ephemera pass, slowly
enough to deposit something trite and cool to brandish like a weapon
against the herd, but too quickly to leave any lasting knowledge.Eve is basically Adam's babysitter, the uber-cool chick from the local
record-store that every fanboy is crushing on deep, yet as usual ends
up dating the tragic poser douchebag from the garage band next door.
She arranges flights and evaluates his guitar collection by touch, but
really does little else but walk around in a pseudo-Bowie attempt at
sangfroid, which recalls another vampire story this film leans on
heavily, The Hunger.In no way, however, are Adam and Eve reminiscent of Bowie's John or
Deneuve's Miriam outside of silly hipster posturing. Perhaps this can
best be seen in the film's setting. Whereas John and Miriam lived a
life of elegance and class in New York City, all Yves Saint-Laurent and
Chanel, Adam and Eve slum in Detroit, the disaster-porn capital for
hipsters with vintage Leicas.Like clueless teenagers they sulk around decaying grandeur and the
death of the all-American (zombie) dream, wallowing in the misery and
loss, which is seen by them as the result of impersonal concepts like
Greed and Contentment, not as personal tragedies for individual humans.
Again, like all people of this ilk, they would no doubt claim to be a
champion for the average man, while at the same time dehumanizing that
average man, a feat made easy by their hothouse existence of fleeting
hedonism and empty joy masquerading as the examined life. One can't
help but recall Charles Péguy's brilliant observation: "It will never
be known what acts of cowardice have been motivated by the fear of not
looking sufficiently progressive." Like most inexperienced teenage posers, vacuous hipster airheads and
self-absorbed romantic-types,the cowardice of Adam and Eve is displayed
in every gesture and word. Their hothouse existence, where they are
sheltered safely from the herd they despise and the reality they claim
to be able to decipher at a level the zombies cannot even fathom, has
made them delusional; they spend the film tilting at cerebral windmills
they conceptualize as profound observation; worst of all they state,
with all the hubris of eternal immaturity, that only they suffer at a
level which the materialistic suburban zombies cannot understand, and
would not tolerate.A reprehensible and fatuous film.Adam and Eve, you two are so grounded.
