9
One of the best, most original horror films in years

The horror genre for me has been pretty mediocre for the past several
years, and so I have pretty much ignored a lot of horror movies that
have come out, with the exception of a few. However, after the buzz
surrounding Cabin, I knew it was something I had to see. And sure
enough, Cabin delivers in spades. It has everything a horror fan could
want, from our favorite clichés to some fantastic surprises. Suffice to
say, every horror fan should go see this.I won't spoil the story, but to get into things a little, we focus on
the age old tale of horror films: friends go to a remote cabin for some
RnR and then the **** hits the fan. And when it does, it does so
gleefully. It would be easy to blow this off as a simple parody, but
it's not. I won't say how, but this is essentially a horror movie
within a horror movie, and it's mostly dead serious. There's plenty of
humor throughout, mostly due to Fran Krantz stoner character. And in
fact, pretty much all the actors play there parts well. They are
likable characters, even if they are cliché, but the clichés are part
of the entire point. And in such areas, these characters are great. If
you're worried about the horror aspect of the film, fear not, it
delivers immensely. There are plenty of chilling scenes, though I
wouldn't necessarily call them scary, and there is plenty of gore for
the gorehounds, particularly at the end.To say much more would be to give away too much. I certainly had a few
qualms about the film, but they were few and far between. And the less
you know the better. I will only say that if you've been looking for
good horror film, this is it. Whedon and Goddard have delivered in
every way and their film will be remembered for some time in the same
way Scream was remembered for shaking up the genre. This is similar,
but different in oh so many ways. Go see this movie. It's the kind of
film that comes out once in a blue moon.
