5
Authentic, But Not Necessarily Always Entertaining

Much of the positive buzz about "The Edge of Seventeen" came from
positive comparisons to films like "The Breakfast Club" or "16
Candles". As I'm always up for movies that describe the emotional state
of the teen years (provided they aren't gross-out/sex comedies...I
don't care for those all that much), and am a big fan of Hailee
Steinfeld, I decided to give this one a try. What I found is that while
the film is most certainly authentic (i.e. seems to be true to what
teens go through these days), I can't say it was really all that
entertaining either. It just lacked that emotional investment towards
the characters that one needs to truly fall in love with a film.For a basic plot summary, "Edge of Seventeen" tells the story of Nadine
(Steinfeld), a teen girl who doesn't fit in with anyone in her school.
The only way she wards off utter depression is that best friend Krista
(Haley Lu Richardson) always has her back and teacher Mr. Bruner (Woody
Harrelson) proves to be a great sounding board for her problems. Things
don't get much better at home, as Krista resents her super-popular
brother Darian (Blake Jenner) and mother Mona (Kyra Sedgwick) struggles
to function after the death of her husband. A chain of complicated
events/emotions is put into play when Krista and Darian become a pair,
prompting Nadine to really examine many different aspects of her life.First and foremost when evaluating "Edge of Seventeen" is the fact that
this movie is completely and utterly carried by Steinfeld. She is a
true acting talent (and has proved as much in previous films like "True
Grit" and "Pitch Perfect 2") and dare I say without her presence this
film may have been a complete dog. Even when the beats seem predictable
or the acting isn't up to the highest standards, Steinfeld can carry
both the light-hearted and emotional scenes. The only times I was
emotionally invested in this film whatsoever were when she was front
and center.Unfortunately, there are just too many other problems that plague this
movie to really give it anything higher than a middling rating. For
example...-Richardson's Krista looks like she is going to be a great
character...but then is basically abandoned about halfway through the
film.-Blake Jenner is cast perfect for his role in terms of physical
appearance and stature, but I felt that perhaps his acting chops
weren't what was needed for the part. I won't go so far as to call him
a "poor actor", but a big part of family dynamics on the film center on
him, and I was wholly underwhelmed when that was the case.-After the first 30-40 minutes (in which I was quite engaged), the rest
of the way felt rather predictable and uninspiring. In other words, the
setup was far, far better than the resolution.I realize that it is perhaps difficult for me (as an over-30 male) to
fully identify with this movie, but I wasn't a teen in the 80s either
and I still love "Breakfast Club". What that movie had that this one
lacked was a such of dramatic flair, not being afraid to really break
down what was going on in the minds of the characters. I feel like in
"Edge of Seventeen", the focus was more on "authenticity" (making sure
the look/feel of things seemed right) than "dramatic entertainment".So, while I think that the target audience (teens) will like this one
more than I, I also don't think this will stand the test of time as a
"standout teen flick", either. If you value authenticity and love to be
totally immersed in the daily life of an era, this one may peak your
interest, but in terms of really high drama it might fall a bit flat.
