6
Acting cannot save a soulless "Slave"

Director Steve McQueen has gathered a talented cast, a compelling plot
idea, and a wonderful cinematographer and then snuffed the life from
them with his clinical, detached directing style that robs what should
be the most affecting movie of the year and turns it into a plodding,
emotionless, historical biopic.Despite the valiant efforts of Chiwetel Ejiofor and especially newcomer
Lupta Nyong'o, this drama about a musician who is duped, drugged and
sold into slavery never manages to find an emotional chord.Like last year's Oscar-bait, "Les Miserables," the film is often told
in long, steady pan shots or a continuous array of distracting
close-ups of actors filled with angst or anger. And the film finds no
rhythm in its editing to make these extremes work. Even the most
harrowing scenes in "12 Years," and there a plenty of them to choose
from, lack dramatic tension. One may as well be watching an accident
filmed on a surveillance camera on the local news, because that's how
detached McQueen's film style is (which also killed his over-praised
"Shame," for me as well.)Some have likened "12 Years a Slave" to "Schindler's List," but for
emotional wallop, there is no comparison. "Schindler's List" is in
every way, from script to score, the vastly superior movie: not only
shocking but truly emotional and with actual drama.John Ridley's screenplay has a few fine dynamics, but quite frankly in
the end all the characters in the film end up being (literally) too
black or white. Even the few characters (like Benedict Cumberbatch's
Ford or Garrett Dillahunt's Armsby) who seem to have shades of gray, of
course turn out to be turn-coats. Michael Fassbender and Sarah Paulson
get two roles that feature them being evil incarnate, to the point you
expect Fassbender to twirl his mustache at times. But again, any kind
of shading the actors may have tried to play gets lost with McQueen's
endless habit of sticking the camera repeatedly into the actor's faces."12 Years" is by no means an awful movie, but I think hype surrounding
it in the press will lead to disappointment in movie goers who are
expecting an amazing visceral tale, and are deceived into getting a
stagnant and clinical examination of some of the darkest days of
American history. Members of the audience I saw the movie with began
talking half-way through and some people were overheard saying, "How
can they make this subject so dull?" as they headed for the exit.
