6
ensemble cast biopic that entertains, but not outstandingly

The pull of this film for me was the cast; Bruce Willis, Joshua
Jackson, Catherine Zeta-Jones and Vince Vaughan... and that it looked a
funny premise. I didn't realise it was based on a true story - the
story of Beth (Beth Raymer) who leaves small town America to make a
life for herself in the big city, bright lights of Vegas. I always enjoy stories where girls build themselves up from nothing,
doing whatever it takes and I liked Beth's outlook on life well played
by Rebecca Hall light-heartedly and convincingly. Her character was
flighty and silly, and it is nice to see such a story where horrible
things didn't happen to her (lucky!) Other than the language in this
film (the worst of which is from the Welsh lips of Ms Zeta-Jones,
almost unrecognisable as American, Tulip both in terms of look and
character) it's pretty innocent, some topless sunbathing excepting.
Bruce Willis wasn't so Bruce Willis as usual and I liked his wayward
yet lovable character and he brought some much needed contour to
otherwise quite flat performances. During the film I did wonder why
everyone was so one-dimensional but as it's a true story, they were I
suppose just going with the story that happened - some of the reactions
people had were unexplained, as were Beth's seemingly easy transitions.
The gorgeous and talented Joshua Jackson was under-utilised in this
film as an actor but seeing as it was a character-based biopic there's
not much that could be done about that. Vince Vaughan managed to be
exactly who he usually is in films, and Laura Prepon as Holly had a
good, small part character role which she did really well in.The film is about gambling so I didn't understand all that went on but
there were moments where it was quite tense, given what was being done
was illegal, but the end was predictable but as it's a true story why
shouldn't it be? You cared enough about the characters that you did
want a happy ending and it's nice that Beth's good personality and
sunny disposition wins out and all is well. As films go - biopic aside
- it's not that great as it wasn't particularly challenging or deep,
and the main character's antics were naïve and rather silly, so you
find her a little annoying, but she was plucky and from the point of
view of the real person she did very well for herself. It is, what it
is. It entertained for an hour or so but I'm glad I didn't see it at
the cinema as I would have been disappointed as it wasn't as funny as I
expected. It's definitely an average, middle of the road standard film
on all counts; screenplay, direction and performances but it's worth
watching.
