6
What "Die Hard 5" should have been.

I find it ironic that Gerard Butler, a Scotsman, as disgraced Secret
Agent Mike Banning, embodies the spirit of John McClane much more than
Bruce Willis did in that last dreadful outing. If anything, Butler has
done nothing more than to cement his reputation as a bankable and
likable action hero for the new generation in this old-school action
movie. He has a commanding presence on-screen, quips wisecracks, bleeds
when it's crucial, and dispatches the bad guys in a methodical cross
between Jason Bourne and John Rambo. Not even the fine supporting cast
(Morgan Freeman, Aaron Eckhart, Angela Bassett, Robert Forster, Melissa
Leo, Dylan McDermott) can take away Butler's limelight.Indeed, Antoine Fuqua's "Olympus Has Fallen" is not only terrific
entertainment but a terrific throwback to the pivotal 90's action
movie, the Die Hard clone - and this film ("Die Hard" in the White
House) is another reminder of why the trusted formula works, even if it
has been dormant for nearly two decades (the last good big one being
Peter Hyams' "Sudden Death").From the moment the film's main action start, the film doesn't stop
running. The bad guys, hoo boy do they mean business. Rarely, if at
all, have I seen this much brutal collateral damage in an American
action film. Americans citizens get mowed down by bullets from ground
and air forces. The all-American (Scottish) hero represents freedom and
justice, and the bad guys represent every American's worst nightmare. I
haven't seen this much political incorrectness since "The Delta Force".
Having said that, Rick Yune surprisingly makes for an effective and
nasty villain, who is relentlessly cold, smug and procedural in his
mission, following the formula perfectly. If it ain't broke, don't fix
it.It's fast, it's loud, it's preposterous, and yet I enjoyed every minute
of it. The film is chock-full of sensational and well-shot action
sequences/special effects, but its biggest strength is its cohesion.
From start to finish the plot moves smoothly, and you can tell who the
good guys and the bad guys are. The characters are established, their
motives clear, and that's that. The action sequences do not simply skip
to each other, they flow perfectly like a stream, thanks to crisp
editing. Simplicity is key here, and convoluted plots do not fit in the
formula (hear that, "Die Hard 5"?)Fuqua is no stranger to action, having helmed the solid "Shooter" six
years ago. Here he ratchets up the action up to a 10 (CGI is present
but used reasonably), and he remarkably doesn't hold back on the
tension. It's no "Training Day", but it more or less hearkens back to
an Antoine Fuqua who made "The Replacement Killers". Just thrilling
fun.Of course the plot isn't original. It's a genre picture, and what I pay
to see in a genre picture is its skillful craft and cohesive plot. This
film has both, and resurrects the Die Hard clone from the grave. Here I
thought I was getting bored of action movies. The genre is dying, you
say? Here's a solid kicker.
