7
A good action flick. Not the worst entry in the series.

I officially watched all of these films back to back (yes, I have no
life) to get a feel for the overall Mission Impossible story-line. I
actually enjoyed this one much more than a few of the other entries in
the series.In terms of action, it's packed right from the get go! The stunts that
they used in this film are unbelievable. Of course everyone was talking
about the opening scene with the aircraft that was used in the trailer,
but it doesn't end there. That's literally just the beginning. So if
action is what you want, that's what you'll get. It could have
benefited from less CGI in the driving sequences, but they're fun to
watch (II and III are much worse by comparison).The plot line by itself is a bit convoluted, as they were trying to
emphasize the spy vs spy story-line that can be expected from every
Mission Impossible film. The dialogue is also fairly complex to follow,
which makes the storyline even harder to follow. The 'doublespeak' they
used was pretty confusing to say the least, which has become the trend
in most politically themed films. It doesn't ruin the film, but you
don't watch something like this for the story. It kinda feels like they
were going for a plot twist moment in every block of dialogue, which
just ruins a storyline for me.And of course there is Tom Cruise. The seminal character that links all
of these films together. He does a good job of maintaining the
character of Ethan Hunt throughout the series, but in this entry into
the series, this his him at his most over-the-top. Tom Cruise did some
pretty great action sequences, and it paid off. I won't say anything
negative about the actor himself, but I respect his stunt performances,
driving ability, and what he brought into this film as an actor. Simon
Pegg had some fairly decent dramatic moments, (and he even has a fight
sequence!!!). Most of the previous characters from the other Mission
films return to bring a sense of unity to the series.So if you're looking for some pretty amazing action, check it out. If
you want an incredible spy film, this isn't it.7/10
