7
Debut excellence

This romance movie is Chris Evans' directorial debut which was first
shown at Toronto international Film Festival.Brooke Dalton is a buyer and art enthusiast from London who misses the
last train home from Boston, and gets robbed for her bag. She drops her phone and as she rushes towards the departing train.
Forced to leave grand central station after it closes, she ends up
meeting Nick Vaughan, a Bostoinian trumpet player who is due to go to
an interview for the job of his dreams the next morning.Together they rush across Manhattan's lower east side to try and get
home before Brooke's husband. Along the way they open up to each other
about Nick's old relationship with Emma who he met while he was a
sophomore in high school. Brooke also has relationship issues with her
husband after discovering emails showing he is having liaisons with a
woman called Liz. Brooke also tells Nick the reason she needs to get back is because she
wrote a letter exposing evidence that she discovered while reading his
emails to and from Liz along with her wedding ring. Nick is planning to confront his ex and make her jealous with his
success in order to try and try and change their break up years ago
when he planned to marry her. Brooke persuades him to go and they
arrive and entertain wedding guests with a performance of "My Funny
Valentine". Then they discover they're at the wrong place! Nick's friend Danny is contacted in a green room and then Nick tries
booking into a hotel. Discovered that they aren't who they say they are
at the hotel they go to the party and meet Nick's ex. Hannah is in a relationship with Cole and Nick figures out that his
plan won't work bailing and walking away with Brooke. Along the way
they find a physic and for fun have predictions even though Nick is a
skeptic. Finally, Nick and Brooke get to the hotel and Nick kisses Brooke after
all they've been through, which Brooke stops half way because it feels
wrong to her. Then they travel to the station and Brooke waits for her
train. Before getting on Brooke kisses Nick as a thank you.I thought that the story was quite unusual in terms of how Rom Coms
usually play out rather banal because the man ends up convincing the
woman to drop everything and be in a relationship. This time though,
Nick and Brooke start as strangers and end up as connected somehow
through their shared experiences. Chris Evans directing for the first time was quite interesting because
I heard that he said he would definitely want to do some directing and
take a break from acting. Especially as it seemed that he was getting
pegged as either the hero, fanciable guy or main character who's point
of view determines the story arc like in most of his filmography.I enjoyed the cameo of Chris' younger brother Scott who is also in the
industry as an actor when he played the concierge of the hotel and I
was amazed at the fact that the whole film took 19 days to shoot.I'd rate this film- ★★★★ because of the well thought out acting,
defying the normal Rom Com tropes. Next time I'll look forward to Chris
Evans as both an actor and director.
