10
Priests Secretly Committing Pederasty. An Award Winner Reality Movie.

Spotlight is a 2015 American biographical drama film directed by Tom
McCarthy and written by McCarthy and Josh Singer. The film follows The
Boston Globe's "Spotlight" team, the oldest continuously operating
newspaper investigative unit in the United States, and its
investigation into cases of widespread and systemic child sex abuse in
the Boston area by numerous Roman Catholic priests. It is based on a
series of stories by the real Spotlight Team that earned The Globe the
2003 Pulitzer Prize for Public Service. The film stars Mark Ruffalo,
Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci, Brian
d'Arcy James, Liev Schreiber, and Billy Crudup.Spotlight was shown in the Out of Competition section of the 72nd
Venice International Film Festival. It was also shown at the Telluride
Film Festival and the Special Presentations section of the 2015 Toronto
International Film Festival. The film was released on November 6, 2015,
by Open Road Films. It won numerous guilds and critics' association
awards, and was named one of the finest films of 2015 by various
publications. It is nominated for six Academy Awards including Best
Film Editing, Best Supporting Actor: Mark Ruffalo, Best Supporting
Actress: Rachel McAdams, Best Original Screenplay, Best Director, and
Best Picture.In 2001, The Boston Globe hires a new editor, Marty Baron. Baron meets
Walter "Robby" Robinson, the editor of the Spotlight team, a small
group of journalists writing investigative articles that take months to
research and publish. After Baron reads a Globe column about a lawyer,
Mitchell Garabedian, who says that Cardinal Law (the Archbishop of
Boston) knew that the priest John Geoghan was sexually abusing children
and did nothing to stop him, he urges the Spotlight team to
investigate. Journalist Michael Rezendes contacts Garabedian, who
initially declines interview. Though he is told not to, Rezendes
reveals that he is on the Spotlight team, persuading Garabedian to
talk.Initially believing that they are following the story of one priest who
was moved around several times, the Spotlight team begin to uncover a
pattern of sexual abuse of children by Catholic priests in
Massachusetts, and an ongoing cover-up by the Boston Archdiocese.
Through a man who heads a victim's rights organization, they widen
their search to thirteen priests. They learn through an ex-priest who
worked trying to rehabilitate pedophile priests that there should be
approximately ninety abusive priests in Boston. Through their research,
they develop a list of eighty-seven names, and begin to find their
victims to back up their suspicions. When the September 11 attacks
occur, the team is forced to deprioritize the story. They regain
momentum when Rezendes learns from Garabedian that there are publicly
available documents that confirm Cardinal Law was aware of the problem
and ignored it. After The Boston Globe wins a case to have even more
legal documents unsealed, the Spotlight Team finally begins to write
the story, and plan to publish their findings in early 2002.As they are about to go to print, Robinson confesses to the team that
he was sent a list of twenty pedophile priests in 1993 in a story he
never followed up on. Baron, nevertheless, tells Robinson and the team
that the work they are doing is important. The story goes to print with
a link leading to the documents that expose Cardinal Law, and a phone
number requesting victims of pedophile priests to come forward. The
following morning, the Spotlight team is inundated with phone calls
from victims coming forward to tell their stories. The film closes with
a list of places in the United States and around the world where the
Catholic Church has been involved in concealing abuse by priests.
