4
Maybe entertaining for 10 year olds ... I thought it was a bit too crowded in the end

"It's like stop trying to be Stephen King, man. Let me tell you
something about Steve King. Steve King wishes he could write like me,
and I've sold way more books than him, but nobody ever talks about
that!"Lets organize a pleasant afternoon and watch a soft horror movie with
the whole family. Why wouldn't we use the oeuvre of R.L. Stine? This
writer wrote a whole series of books known as the famous Goosebumps.
And to circumvent the obstacle of choosing a book, they just used all
of them in the same film. What you get to see is a horde of horror
figures, planning to destroy the human world. From small, annoying
gnomes to a giant grasshopper. There are some less successful creations
and there are also some highly amusing creations like Slappy, the Yeti
and the werewolf with basketball shoes. The end result is a
Jumanji-like kids-movie in which the main actors must do their utmost
best to straighten out this crooked situation.I wasn't really impressed though. Probably because I'm not part of the
target group. The bland romantic part and the attempt to make it
adventurous, obviously wasn't meant for me. It might be a bit too scary
for the youngest among us (although it wasn't overly creepy). Pubers
however might think it's a bit too soft. I appreciated the rare moments
when the humor became tremendously sharp and shrewd, like the opening
scene and the Stephen King remark for example. Even the humorous
interactions of the scrawny little fellow Champ (Ryan Lee) who tries to
fix everything along with Zach (Dylan Minnette) and Hannah (Odeya "The
Giver" Rush), was acceptable. The only thing that started to get on my
nerves after a while, was him using that effeminate scream for the
umpteenth time."Goosebumps" guarantees an entertaining afternoon at the local cinema
for young people. Even adults who accompany them, could have some fun
with it. There are some memorable parts such as the werewolf fragment
in the supermarket. Long time since I've seen such a perfectly
choreographed scene where real actors and animated characters interact
with each other. Blood-curdling exciting and flashy. Yep it gave me
goosebumps. Unfortunately in the end it turned into a real mess. It was
a bit too much of everything. A flood of Stine's literary creations.
And Jack Black, who plays the grumpy hermit Stine, stuck to his routine
of not being funny. It's probably me, but if you want me to be
depressed, just let me watch "School of Rock". Success guaranteed."Goosbumps" won't be such a huge success as a fantasy and horror film.
It seemed to me that the idea to cram Stine's creations into the same
movie, wasn't exactly the most brilliant idea. The best is the enemy of
the good. Fortunately, they didn't use this idea for the Harry Potter
books. Perhaps the creators biggest intention was to promote reading a
book again. Maybe they partially succeeded in that. Unfortunately this
self-promotion also worked disadvantageous when you look at the special
effects and the story structure. All in all it's a must see for ten
year olds. Maybe I re-watch it with my son in five years. He can have
his uninhibited opinion about my humble opinion!More reviews here : http://bit.ly/1KIdQMT
