8
Daring and quite impressive

"Impressive". That's the best description I could come up with after
being asked by my brother and sister-in-law about my thoughts on Cloud
Atlas immediately following the film's second-ever public screening
we'd just attended. Not a very incisive assessment, I'll grant you, but
my head was still spinning as I tried to make sense of what I'd just
witnessed over the film's jam-packed two hour and forty three minute
running time. This may be one the most ambitious and epic films I've
ever seen, demanding rapt attention from viewers as they're taken on an
odyssey that spans the globe over 500 years and hopscotches between
numerous interwoven story lines that incorporates just about every film
genre available, featuring actors playing several different roles each.
Cloud Atlas is based on British author David Mitchell's best-selling
2004 novel and was a huge challenge for the filmmakers to adapt and
finance (its estimated budget of over $100 million also makes it the
most expensive independent film ever made). The architects of this
beautifully twisted madness are directors/writers/producers Tom Tykwer
(Run Lola Run) and The Matrix's Wachowski siblings, Andy and Lana (Lana
was Larry until a gender transition that was completed about five years
ago). The Wachowskis, notoriously press shy, were surprisingly on hand
(along with Tykwer) to introduce the film's second screening the
morning after its star-studded TIFF world premiere on September 8th at
the Princess of Wales Theatre. A movie this expansive should have a massive cast, considering how many
characters appear - not so in this case, though. Principle actors Tom
Hanks, Halle Berry, Hugh Grant, Jim Broadbent, Hugo Weaving, Jim
Sturgess, and Xun Zhou each take on multiple roles that plays loose and
fast with the actors' ages, races, and genders (Susan Sarandon, Keith
David, James D'Arcy, and Doona Bae also have smaller roles). Having so
many dimensions to explore with all of their characters must have been
acting nirvana for this lot. For the most part, they pull off the
various requirements of the roles, many of which require a significant
amount of prosthetics and makeup. Several of the roles were so well
disguised that I was completely clueless that a certain actor had
played the role until the end credits visually made some of the big
reveals (learning that Berry played the white Victorian housewife and
Grant a war paint-layered native completely floored me). Sticking
around until the end is an absolute necessity for Cloud Atlas - the
oohs and ahhs from the sold-out audience as they discovered who
actually played some of the parts was a wonderfully unique filmgoing
experience for me. For all of the positive aspects that the race
bending and gender bending idea brings to the film, there is the faint
whiff of novelty attached to it. Things do get a little silly when you
have Weaving seemingly playing an Asian character whose makeup produces
more of a Vulcan look (which may have been intentional, as it's for a
sci-fi sequence that takes place somewhere in the 2300s), as well as in
full drag playing a Nurse Ratched-like character. The latter obviously
has parallels to Lana Wachowski's own life and although the nurse
character provides some decent laughs, I was a little hung up on how it
seemed one of the character's main functions was to generate laughs
purely based on the surreal sight of Weaving playing one truly ugly
looking woman. Perhaps I'm reading too much into it. Weaving does provide one of Cloud Atlas' most memorable roles, as the
seriously creepy Old Georgie, who terrorizes one of Hanks' many
characters. Hanks does some of the best work I've ever seen from him,
playing four different characters that range from an unscrupulous
doctor in the 1800s to going far against type with maybe the film's
standout character, a modern-day thuggish British writer named Dermot
Hoggins who gets the ultimate revenge on a critic for a bad review.
Berry is excellent with her predominant roles playing an ambitious
reporter in 1970s San Francisco and a political figurehead (from what I
could grasp) aligned with one of Hanks' characters in the far future,
in one of the film's few story lines that doesn't quite work. Also
great is Broadbent as both a composer and playing a man tricked into
living in a retirement home, who provides the film's best comic relief. The weighty Cloud Atlas principle themes of philosophy, reincarnation,
oppression, and destiny, along with the film's highly challenging pace
and complex non-linear storytelling construct will overwhelm many -
that's okay, however. I was lost a number of times - not Tinker Tailor
Soldier Spy-level lost, mind you, but definitely out of sync with what
was happening on screen. This is the type of daring film that demands
multiple viewings to completely grasp the filmmakers' grand scope and
there's nothing wrong with a little audaciousness from Hollywood once
in a while. Even with a big-name cast, it'll be very interesting to see
how the otherwise difficult-to-market Cloud Atlas will fare at the box
office come late October.
