8
A lot of fun, but probably not for the young ones

The thing of it is, ParaNorman is pretty scary stuff for a PG movie, so
you've been properly warned. This isn't some over-sanitized Disney
movie. Everything from the lighting to the characters to the tense plot
adds up to something you wouldn't want your six-year-old to drag you
to, unless you don't mind paying for some therapy. But it's a terrific
movie, with a style all its own and a madcap sense of ghoulish delight.Norman (voice of Kodi Smith-McPhee) is an outcast. Know why? He talks
to dead people. And indeed, we see them as well, chatting with our hero
along his walk to school. Oh, and his grandmother (voice of Elaine
Stritch) talks to him all the time while sitting on the couch in the
living room. No one understands poor Norman, who's as resignedly
freaked out as Haley Joel Osment in the Sixth Sense, so he has no one
to talk to, not his parents (Jeff Garlin and Leslie Mann), not his
sister (Anna Kendrick), and not the school bully (Christopher
Mintz-Plasse) for sure. It's only when Norman has an episode during the production of a school
play (not coincidentally, about an old legend surrounding the town's
dark past) that he gains a friend - another outcast, the portly Neil
(Tucker Albrizzi), who teaches Norman that it's best not to let people
bother you, to not let them get under your skin. Had the story ended
there, we may have had a nice, tidy after-school special. Oh, but it
does not! From out of almost nowhere, Norman's black-sheep uncle, Mr.
Prenderghast (John Goodman), a heavily bearded, slightly loony chap,
informs Norman that he - Norman! - must take the mantle of He Who Holds
Off the Witch's Curse. Mr. P. has been doing it for all these years,
but he thinks he's about to go. He warns Norman that it's all up to him
and he must read from the book and then he dies. That was an
intentional run-on sentence, for your pleasure.Thereby our plot is set in motion! Norman must extricate said book from
the dead uncle and then read it by the witch's grave in order to break
the curse that no one really believes is real. They don't believe it on
account of Mr. Dead Uncle has been reading from the book for his entire
life, and someone before him, and so on. But now Dead Uncle is, you
know, demised, and just before the witch is to rise from the ashes and
wreak havoc! Oh, I should note that the curse goes like this - a little
girl was suspected of witchcraft by the town elders and sentenced to
death. So you can see why she might want to haunt those elders and the
town itself for all eternity.There are people raised from the dead, and the imagery is quite
striking; bones, stringy hair, rent clothing, and the ability to remove
an appendage and reattach it. Are these - uh - zombies - out to lay
waste to the town? Or are they victims of their own device? It's up to
Norman, his brain, and his innate ability to talk to dead people to
somehow save the day. Despite being grounded, of course.ParaNorman works on many levels. Adults will love the stylish, almost
Gothic atmosphere; older teens will love the menace of both the zombies
and the townspeople, not to mention the witch herself. There are, for
an animated film, plenty of scares and dark themes - slightly offset by
the themes of loneliness, friendship, heroism, and getting adults to
just listen to you. For once! Ahem. Anyway, there's a sort of beauty in
ParaNorman, as horror and light comedy are somehow blended to form a
rich animated film.
