9
Very involving bit of pure sci-fi

A reclusive CEO of a leading technology company hires a young whiz kid
who works for him to test his latest development, a highly advanced
android called Ava. Specifically he is tasked with using the Turing
test on her to establish if her AI is sufficiently convincing to pass
as human.Despite contributing several scripts for the screen, this is writer
Alex Garland's first directorial effort. It's a hard sci-fi movie which
examines concepts and ideas above everything else. That's not to say it
isn't dramatic or even thrilling because it is both of those things as
well but the focus is squarely on the science fiction speculation, and
this is a very welcome thing. The central concept that it examines is
artificial intelligence. How we interact with AI as humans, as well as
how a seductive machine could in turn manipulate us. The very well
written script poses philosophical questions such as is there moral or
immoral ways to treat AI. It also considers if sometimes part of being
human is that we sometimes subconsciously want to be fooled by an
illusion, if it is attractive enough.In many ways Ex Machina resembles last years Under the Skin. Both
feature highly advanced female non-humans. In the earlier film Scarlett
Johansson played an alien, here Alicia Vikander plays an android. While
the very small cast all acquit themselves very well, it is Vikander who
stands out in the film's most challenging role. It's a nuanced
performance that captures the fine balance between the human-like and
machine. Not only this but the marvellous special effects compliment
this performance to create a very distinctive character. Aside from the
effects, this is probably quite a modestly budgeted film, as the small
little-known cast and limited sets suggest. But these restrictions have
been used to the films advantage, as the unknown cast surprise more
given little is known of them and the restricted setting gives off a
claustrophobic feel which works well, while forcing us to focus in even
more on the ideas being put in front of us. A scene setting ambient
soundtrack additionally creates just the right off-kilter mood to
accentuate the events. But it's ultimately the very good writing that
underpins the success of this film. All-in-all, very impressive science
fiction for those who appreciate the genre's more cerebral side.
