3
Lazy and Repetitive (Spoiler Alert)

Let me just say that for the record, I'm not a Madea fan, I am just a
casual moviegoer. But that doesn't mean I can't get enjoyment out of
these movies.Last year, I saw Boo! A Madea Halloween. I thought it was okay. Sure,
some of the comedy scenes dragged on and on and there were some stupid
moments, but I overall thought it was an alright movie. I thought it
was way better than the other comedy I saw that year, Why Him.But one year later, we get this movie. Hoo boy.Now, when I heard that they were making ANOTHER Madea Halloween movie
one year after they already did one, I thought to myself, "Why? Didn't
they just do one?" But then, I was like, "Whatever. Maybe something new
is in store."When I heard the plot of this movie, I thought it sounded like the
laziest sequel ever.When I saw the movie, I was right.I did not enjoy this film. The plot was the SAME EXACT THING as the
last film. (Spoiler alert) That teenage girl goes to yet ANOTHER party
with those frat guys, somehow not learning her lesson from last time,
and surprise surprise, something supernatural happens. How lazy and
uninspired can you get? Oh, and if you weren't there for the first
Halloween movie, don't worry. The characters will be happy to mention
it constantly. And just like the last film, some scenes with Madea and
her friends talking drag. But it's shorter this time around. That's
good. Some parts of this movie were stale, like a lot of scenes
featured the same thing happening: Madea and the gang are in their car
and something jumps out at them and scares them. Rinse and repeat. A
lot of the characters got really annoying, especially Madea's brother,
Joe, who I swear, always had something to say whenever a sentence was
uttered. Further contributing to the film's laziness, the moral (if you
will) from Boo 1 was the same, but it was with the mom instead of the
dad. It wasn't really built up like last time, it was just rushed. And
speaking of the parents, you'd think that after the father learned his
lesson in the predecessor, that he'd be getting back together with his
ex wife or something. But nope. He's still divorced, and his ex wife
hooked up with another bald dude. Oh, and do you wanna know the twist
in this movie? Well, get this... The father was behind all the ghosts
and demons scaring away the kids. Yep. Just like last time where the
father had involvement with the fake arrest thing. Pitiful. Absolutely
pitiful. And oh yeah, the film ends on somewhat of a cliffhanger, where
(spoiler alert) it turns out that one of the creatures that haunted the
kids was actually real. Oh, please don't do a Boo 3. I hope this was
only a joke.But through all the bad things this film had to offer, there were some
things that I liked. A diamond in the rough, if you will. But it's more
like a diamond in the litter box. I liked the return of Yousef Ereka.
He was funny in the last one and was quite funny in this one. Also,
that scene where Madea is in the police station and sees herself on a
"Wanted" poster was pretty funny. (How the cops don't recognize her is
beyond me.) But that scene seemed to drag, as well. But those things
could not save the movie.Overall, this was a disappointment. It had little effort thrown into it
and was basically a retread of the first Madea Halloween movie. I do
not recommend it... Unless you're a hardcore Madea fan and need to see
everything that this character is in.
