8
Wonderful and Powerful Witches

For starters, try to forget the 1939 classic when you're watching this.
The story deals with events predating Dorothy's arrival to the
wonderful land of Oz, and they're very different from the plot events
in the musical that has managed to bewitch audiences for the last
decades. What we have is a film which contains two marvelous
performances by Michelle Williams and Rachael Weisz. James Franco has
the thankless role of a man with a dubious character and questionable
motives.As Franco arrives in Oz, he discovers he can manipulate some of the
welcoming committee; however he is not aware of the real politics and
back stories in the magic family he now confronts. As events evolve, he
learns to discover that there is more to his character, but this new
knowledge comes with exposure to whimsical characters, interaction with
a rather alluring and wise beauty and a realization that he is able to
create "magic" of his own in order to save this charming world and his
own self.Williams continues to enchant audiences, this time literally with her
powerful charm as the "good witch" who must fight the evil sisters and
clear her name. She is now in charge of leading the fight, enlist and
convince Oscar to lend her support with his particular knowledge/his
own special kind of magic. She is a vision, beautiful to see and
admire, as she is able to open up the hearts and minds of those around
her. She is kind and pure.Weisz is the complete opposite, in a way more than a match for either
Glinda or Oscar, and still pretty formidable against both of them. If
her own sister wasn't a bit traumatized, they both could be the
equivalent of Darth Vader in "Star Wars". Unfortunately, the newly
transformed Wicked Witch is underdeveloped and not as fascinating as
her thoroughly delicious twisted sister. Weisz gives a classic
performance and easily joins classic characters as Darth Vader and
Hannibal Lecter in the way she approaches the role, with supreme gusto
and showing the audience how far you can take a simple and yet, quite
meaty role.One of the biggest assets of this film is its production design, the
art direction and special effects. There is a definite tribute to the
1939 film in the way the deco period is revived, but it also boasts its
original look, a rich, velvety and luxurious recreation of sets that
remind of cinema's golden era. The leads all look amazing, and the 3D
technology enhances the magic of the story.It's not a perfect film, but it has enough merits of its own, and one
hopes there is a sequel so they can improve on a very good effort, and
we can continue enjoying the mythology of the wonderful world of Oz.
