8
High class monkey business

There are some films you go to see with low expectations and back in
2011 Rupert Wyatt's "Rise of the Planet of the Apes" was one of those.
After the Charlton Heston classic, a long series of increasingly poor
sequels and a failed Tim Burton reboot, apprehension was high. But how
wrong could I be. This was 100% a 10/10 film (if I'd been doing these
reviews in those days): an epic and gripping story; great performances
from James Franco, John Lithgow, Freida Pinto and Harry Potter star Tom
Felton; and stunningly executed special effects, with Andy Serkis's
performance delivering amazing depth of feeling and emotion. (The scene
where Serkis's character Caesar first speaks is one of my top 10 "most
goose-bumpy" moments in cinema history).Now, 4 years later, we have the sequel - Dawn of the Planet of the Apes
- which, given how much I loved the original film, I approached with a
similar feeling of apprehension. But, I am delighted to say, I was
pleasantly surprised.Dawn of the Planet of the Apes neatly takes over in its opening titles
where the closing titles of the first film left off. The so-called
Simean flu has wiped out 499 of every 500 people on earth, deftly
explaining why James Franco and Freida Pinto fail to reprise their
roles in the sequel: in fact it would have been an unrealistic cop-out
if either had done. Instead - monkey business aside - we have a brand
new human cast led by Jason Clarke ("Zero Dark Thirty", "The Great
Gatsby"), Keri Russell ("MI-3's" 'bomb in the head' girl) and heavy
hitter Gary Oldman. These characters are trying to rebuild a new
society for the survivors in San Francisco, but their desire for power
(of the volts and amps variety) puts them in direct conflict with the
emerging simian society deep in the redwoods. Much conflict ensues, not
only between the two tribes but between the factions of the two
societies.Once again, there is a good story by original writers Rick Jaffa and
Amanda Silver, joined by Mark Bomback: underneath the set-piece action
sequences, the majority of the drama comes from the relationships
between the characters, and especially that between Caesar (Serkis) and
his estranged son played extremely well by Nick Thurston, culminating
in a remarkable stand-out scene between the two in Caesar's old home
that is genuinely moving. And another specific callout was
Yorkshire-born Toby Kebbell playing the emotionally and mentally
wounded Koba: his scenes in the human armoury - think Heath Ledger's
Joker crossed with PG Tips advert - are both funny and distubing in
equal measure.Is it as good as "Rise"? No, not in my view. The first film was novel
and deep, and "Dawn" is more superficial in comparison. It is also far
more of an action film (or "a bit fighty" as my dear wife described
it), with some standout battle scenes that are a masterpiece of special
effects. If "Rise" could be compared to the original "Alien", "Dawn" is
much more like "Aliens" - wham, bang, thank-you Simian.The director this time is wunderkind Matt Reeves ("Cloverfield", "Let
Me In"), directing with panache and a narrative drive that only
occasionally lets up for emotional punch. The acting is good and (as
flagged above) the special effects are outstanding: the production team
clearly saw "I am Legend" and wanted to go one better with the San
Francisco streets. And all topped off with a fine and un-obtrusive
score by Michael Giacchino.Highly recommended, and I am now looking forward to the next sequel,
planned for a 2016 release.(If you enjoyed this review, please see my library of other reviews at
bob-the-movie-man.com and enter your email address to "Follow the Fad".
Thanks.)
