1
Doesn't justify its own existence

Awful but not necessarily for the reason you would expect.Despite some early reviews I've read or watched I didn't find the movie
to be anti-male. There was nothing offensively anti-man in it that
wasn't something I've already seen before and laughed off a million
times. Unfortunately that's part of the problem this movie has with
humor creativity. There was nothing there to laugh about.Thankfully Patty Tolan isn't a walking/talking stereotype. They made
her a New York City historian instead of a caricature with "street
smarts". Sadly, they didn't do her any other favors. Nor were the other
characters flushed out at all.Kristen Wiig and Melissa McCarthy play a pair of old friends who
re-unite but I never get much of a sense they were anything but aware
they were in a movie. They try to riff and play off each other but it
kind of falls flat.Kate McKinnon's character stands out the most in this movie. The
character just seemed too weird in an unrealistic way. She seemed to
try chewing up scenery any time she was on a call sheet, even if she
didn't have much to say. She didn't feel like she fit into what was
happening.One actress that stood out to me was Cecily Strong. Cecily Strong stood
out to me the same way Kristen Wiig first stood out to me in Knocked
Up. She only has a very small role in the movie but she's able to be
convincing and funny without making it seem like she's in on the joke.The performances weren't bad per se, they were just very underwhelming
all-around. As a result, the film itself does not succeed.I did like how the ghosts look in the movie. I also like the choice the
filmmakers make at the end regarding the classic logo. However I have
to be harsh on this movie because it's a reboot that ultimately did not
need to be made.Not only did they attempt to reboot a comedy (tell the same joke twice
in a row and see how well it works the second time - comedy is a very
very delicate thing and you need to respect the audience) but they went
for a movie that originally caught lightning in a bottle. I don't even
think Ghostbusters II did enough to justify existing. Maybe the lessons
we didn't learn back when the sequel was made are the same lessons we
won't learn from the reboot.
