4
History written by Steven Spielberg

Steven Spielberg visuals are excellent in movies and this one is no
exception. He does a wonderful job recreating the time period that
Lincoln was a part of. The difficulty I have is in believing some of
the dialogue and the revisionist history that takes place in this
movie. The opening scene is a bloody battle and it appears realistic.
Unfortunately the following scene has two black soldiers chatting with
Lincoln outside in a makeshift camp. He's sitting at a table while they
discuss their observations with him. Listening to them you'd think they
all grew up on the same block together. One soldier lectures Lincoln
and interrupts him during their conversation, while the other is
Lincolns best buddy. A soldier wouldn't ever talk to a president in
2012 in this manner. In 1865 if two black soldiers acted this way they
would have been immediately been put in irons. Blacks had to be
extremely deferential interacting with whites during that century
because the law looked the other way when they were murdered by whites.
The scene is ridiculous. Throughout the movie Spielberg emphasizes slavery as Lincolns
motivation for engaging with the South. Fact check: Lincoln goal was to
preserve the union. He did not remotely believe in equality of the
races. Like most whites at that time, he considered blacks inferior. He
stated that he would free some of the slaves, or all of the slaves, or
none of the slaves if it would preserve the union. The movie is sort of
a Disney version of Lincoln and loose on the facts.This movie is over rated (probably because Spielberg is so powerful in
Hollywood) and if you know any civil war history you will be
disappointed. Lincoln, like all presidents, was a mixed bag. He
believed in that it was acceptable to pay $300 to buy your way out of
the war (the Irish didn't like that idea). Lincoln seriously considered
deporting blacks to central America or Africa after the war. There was
a great deal of corruption during his administration. Like most elites
he believed the war should be fought by others(he wouldn't allow his
son to put on a uniform until the war was over). Spielberg paints
Lincoln as a saint and it would have been better (and far more
realistic) if he had been portrayed a man with faults. The movie is a
disappointment, if you want real history, read a book. This movie is a
fable for children.
