2
The Hunger Games Re-make

Having watched the first Hunger Games with some appreciation, I was
decidedly eager to watch the second. How wrong I was.The basis of the film is laid out fairly quickly. There is discontent
among the enslaved Districts. Katniss' inadvertent televised defiance
of the autocratic Capitol by surviving the Hunger Games has shown its
yoked peoples that it is not invincible. Hope threatens to displace
fear, and there are instances of open defiance, threatening to bubble
over into full-blown insurrection. All that is needed is the
touch-paper to be lit. However, fearful for the people and the
retribution they will suffer, Katniss is unwilling to act as a symbol
against the regime.This amounts to the first twenty minutes of the film. "OK", you think.
"Solid, if uninspired. So she reluctantly becomes the figurehead of a
revolution which topples the dastardly government. " However, before
proceeding down this well-trod path, the film-makers decide that we
first need to watch a re-make of the first film, with the same actors.Katnis finds herself obligated to fight in the next Hunger Games, and
must go through the same routine of making the public gush over her to
win favour and friends, train in high-tech, sterile quarters, and
accept the impossibility of surviving the games against superior foes.
The difference is that there is a rebel conspiracy among some of the
contestants and Games' Chief-Producer to ensure Katniss survive.However, when finally it is revealed to Katnis that the plan had always
been for her to survive, even at the cost of others, I felt not the
faintest murmur of surprise. The big twist wouldn't have registered on
a CAT scan. Throughout the film it is alluded to (nay, explicated)
without subtlety, ambiguity, or misdirection. For example, contestants
keep dying on her behalf with no hint of reason. But this itself isn't
even developed into an independent pillar of the film; the main body of
which is unaltered i.e. fighting, surviving, and the nominal
self-sacrifice of disposable fringe characters.The other major failed attempt to distinguish this film from the first
was to introduce a genuine love interest for Katniss. The first scene
of the film sees Katniss saying goodbye to her beloved...I don't
remember his name. His contribution is to play martyr against nasty
Capitol stormtroopers, obliging Katniss to intervene to save him from
summary execution. This is the last straw for the Capitol, who declare
another Hunger Games – where Katniss will kill her "allies" and thus
discredit her as a source of inspiration for the people. It was my
feeling though, that the story could have got there easily enough
without him. In terms of plot development he was only there to – in
chess problem terms – "dress the board." Eventually he joins the
rebellion (I think), and then isn't even referenced for the whole
second half of the film.One thing it did achieve was to thicken the theme of Peeta's unrequited
love for Katniss, and her increasing – genuine or not?? - affection for
him. I felt there was some body to this thread, which felt like it was
actually being developed throughout the film - rather than merely
another aching turn of the plot-wheel. What might be interpreted as a
stolid performance by Josh Hutcherson, I thought did as much as it
could to convey Peeta's character (as otherwise implied by the script).
Decent, dutiful, un-querulous. The CGI was dependable enough, if not ground-breaking. The Capitol was
predictable grandiosity, symmetry and perpendiculars. One of the few
fine moments in the film was the scene in which Katniss' twirls and in
doing so burns off her innocuous frock, revealing her (unwittingly)
attired to resemble a Mockingjay - the symbol of the Resistance - live
on prime-time TV. For me the best bit of the film is the performance of Stanley Tucci as
Caesar Flickerman, the host of the Hunger Games broadcasts. He was a
welcome source of light in a film which can otherwise be summed up as
dimly-lit and lugubrious. Loud, bright, strident, believably eccentric
and garrulous; just a degree removed from the modern day chat show
host, which lends some authenticity to the film as a meaningful
commentary on the condition of society.In sum though, the resulting film is one that makes promises on which
it does not deliver. Once it was over, most of me was relieved, but the
remaining part was still waiting for it to start. I felt cheated. Like
buying a ticket to a fairground ride which is actually just a queue for
a ride (C. South Park), or dumbly watching a frozen chicken slowly
turning in the oven, and then being served it long before it's ready.
My advice: If you want to watch Hunger Games: Part 2, wait for Hunger
Games: Part 3
