8
Best war film in quite a while and Bradley Coopers best performance to date

I am so glad I got the opportunity to see this film early. Clint
Eastwood has made yet another fantastic film but this time making his
mark on the war film genre and he did it well. The story follows Chris
Kyle a navy seal sniper claimed to be the deadliest sniper in military
history with a record of over 160 confirmed kills. There is a lot to
like in this war drama and now I will elaborate.To start off I will say that this film deserves at least a Oscar nod
for Bradley coopers portrayal of Kyle. Unfortunately the competition is
to tough this year for cooper to win but I'm sure this film will get a
nomination or two at least. The film not only has very intense scenes
of war but also very intense scenes of what can come of war.As I started to talk about the effects that were portrayed as far as
life after war well that's probably what I can talk about the most. For
a comparison I will use the hurt locker, it's a good war movie about a
man who also like Chris Kyle has a preceding reputation, however he is
known for a large number of bomb disposals while Chris Kyle is known as
a legend due to his notoriety for kills confirmed. So there's a great
similarity there however even though I really enjoyed the hurt locker I
have to say American Sniper portrayed a lot of things the same and
better, for example the hurt locker didn't portray the effects of war
on a person as well as this one did.There is much more I could compare between the 2 films and I also can't
say a lot without spoiling much. If you have a anticipation to see it
and don't let the film get over hyped you should be able to enjoy it as
much as me or maybe even more than me. There is some things I'm sure
some will have problems with but I don't think that will effect most
people. In conclusion Coopers performance is one not to miss and
neither is this film which I believe is the best war film I've seen in
quite a while which may even be years. I hope this is useful and you
can enjoy the film like my self. Thanks for reading and enjoy the film.
