1
Cmoon Man!

My English is so bad, I don't speak English, but i'm trying hard to
write this review! so you knew my disappointment Don't waste your time and money watching this. I keep on cursing during
the movie. They been there for 3 years, why not build a ladder, so when the runner
late coming, they can climb back to the glade. The wall is still
reachable, they have plenty of trees, knifes, axe, rope etc.. Even kids
will build a ladder.. even you can make a HOLE on the wall very easy!!
its shown when Galby make people name on wall very easy.Newt said, "trust me. we have tried everything" while gardening. You put a group of young man with no supervision and they they will
become a farmer??? OMG this is insulting. No violence? c'mon... After 3 years they send Thomas to the glade. why? never explain
clearly.. because all the guys were doing nothing but gardening? Even
Thomas had to sting his self and got cured so he can remember things,
but when he remember things, so what ? it doesn't solve anything nor
have any connection to any plot. He already found the way out before.They have build a complete miniature of the maze while the maze always
sifting. And why the... Alby is going with Minho on checking the maze?
the story never explain why.. If the sting bring people back memories, why should cast Ben when he
got sting? Just keep him in the hole, ask things to him and let him
died. while when Alby go sting. they keep it!!! why people whyyyy?????
Even Minho risk their live to carry and bring Alby back to glade, and
put Thomas life in danger because he think Alby is wounded or
something. And after they all locked up Minho said to Thomas..
"congrats, you just kill your self, Alby got sting" what the..... Minho
knew Alby got sting, stinged people should be abandon inside the maze
right? just leave him!! he is the leader of the runner he should knew
more!They all good looking, well hair cut and fashion group of man in the
middle of nowhere.If you already knew the schedule of the maze to shift, have the maps,
you don't have to be a runner, you can just walk. But then again there
is a monster in the maze, why are you keep on coming back with just
small knife?And when a girls show at least some guys should have a joke saying
something about it. I was kind of expecting it. Especially when you are
a group of young men that lived in the jungle for 3 years! I just don't understand the story of this movie.. to put all the people
in to the maze surrounded by monster to study their brain?
cmooooonnnnn!! I would just make a survival contest rather that build a
super complex million dollar maze with AI droid monster just to see
people survive. That is insulting the future man! No bodies after the slay? OK now the monster eat people, while in the
first part it only sting.Runner sign off because Alby got stinged? while actually there has been
a lot of people died before Alby.Thomas and Minho suddenly have a long rope from the woods and its
already hooked up at the top to drag Alby body to the top.The monster fight was horrible.. you fighting a gigantic robotic
monster with a stick?? They gave 2 cure serum to the girl what for? that's not studying people
mind. Just like giving an answer on your examp.They live among a monster they should have create a defense system like
a weapon or something. I would build a catapult, Arrows, Traps. I'm
expecting to see hardcore life in that glade.Alby said the 3 rules, "Work hard, never hurt anybody, and never go
trough that big wall.." I mean you locked in jungle with a giant big
DOOR open? any sane people want to know. Why cant you say, it's a
freakin sifting maze and has big scary spider monster inside!THERE IS SO MUCH WRONG in this movie.. I can FEEL that the glade
citizen is a peaceful society, peaceful life, enjoy farming,
gardening.. While actually they shouldn't. you live in a box among
monster!! its really beyond expectation!At the end.. the gun from the dead body. Which I should take it!!! to
protect my self and friends, not kick it! so Galby, that show from
nowhere can have it!__________ Final word. The end of the movie really make me want to pour
my pop corn to someone face! And the exit door was a joke!!___________________ Movie effect on me. I really can't sleep thinking..
why would someone make such a horrible insulting people intelligent
movie like that, I rather watch spongebob guys. really!___________ Suggestion. I think its better if the creator was a maniac
and love to see people suffer! and when they finally got out, they
capture the creator and kill him or put him on the maze with the
monster, and they can see again the beautiful world with their
families. It's shitty end i know! but it far better ending than this
confusing (trying to make a good unpredicted mystery ending).PS I haven't read the book.
