4
Don't Start

Was looking forward to this ever since April/July this year & couldn't
wait to see it. The story/concept sounded really interesting & looked
as though it was going to be a pretty good film with a unique concept.Unfortunately, the film just lost it's buzz & excited as soon as it
began. The film concept is simple, 3 teens break into a blind mans home
(he's an Ex War Veteran) & steel his compensation money. It seemed to
be a good film & sounded it, but it didn't deliver in a way I thought
it would. It kept me excited when I first heard about it but when it
came to watching I wasn't as blown away by it. I mean, don't get me wrong. The film was alright & had some suspenseful
moments which kept you watching. It was creepy & had some jumpy moments
in it. It also found it interesting to see what they could do with the
concept of an Ex War Veteran who is blind & how he uses his military
army skills to combat these intruders. As everyone would assume he's
the vulnerable one & these 3 intruders have the upper hand, though we
all know the film wants us to assume that. But know differently.But anyway, it was poor & disappointing as it got to the end. I also
found that none of the characters, not even the creepy jerk were
likable or even redeeming. You couldn't feel sorry for the intruders
because of their nasty heartless intentions (well 2 of the 3 as only 1
of them had a heart... slightly), & you certainly couldn't feel sorry
for the War Veteran as he also had a dark nasty little secret down in
his basement. So it was pretty difficult who to root for. I also had problems with the continuity errors, like the dog
disappearing & reappearing at random points. Also the plot holes, like
the police not finding the DNA of the female intruder who shredded
enough blood to fill a bucket & enough hair to cover a bald gits head!
Unbelievable. The female soul survivor ending was clichéd, cheap & just plain sexist!
This is 2016 & these idiots still go for that? Hah! This is coming from
someone who says the film doesn't reply on "cheap scares" oh the irony!
So, she got away with the money, left her friends for dead & that poor
old git get's robbed blind (pardon the pun) & doesn't say sh!t despite
DNA evidence in the house that could place her at the scene of the
crime! Layabouts like her expect to earn money by not getting a job,
typical in this day & age!The kills were tame & the blood lacked in certain areas, again another
boner from the director saying his Evil Dead remake was too gory!
Idiot, that's what we need! Films now have really gone down hill for
slashers what happened to the days of SAW, Final Destination & Scream!?
Not to mention Wrong Turn, Halloween, Friday 13th need I go on? Now
everything has to be clever & smart & not straight forward! This film
could've ended so much better had that git killed all those nobs!The film did exactly what the first intentions of anyone's ignorant
minds did. Blind man's home, has a ton load of £££. Should be easy
money! Well it pretty much was when the film started & ended! Didn't
have a twist ending where none of them lived or they got caught etc.They pretty much did break in & take his money. I mean, it wasn't easy,
aside from a few scuffles, nearly being forced upon by a squirter
filled with old man's cream, getting shot repeatedly & assaulted
brutally they got there in the end... just about!But in a nut shell, that's exactly what she (they) did! Not a clever
film it's hyped up to be! Watch The Strangers or The Purge! Least they
deliver well unlike this poor disappointment.4/10 Could've been SO much better!
