8
A tall, cool glass of water—with a contaminant or two

"A Cure for Wellness" follows an ambitious, young New York financial
executive who is sent to Switzerland to retrieve a colleague who has
indefinitely extended his stay at a mountaintop sanitorium known for
its therapeutic mineral waters. Hiding behind the veneer of medicine,
however, is something far darker.Though it's taken a critical beating, "A Cure for Wellness" is a bit of
an underdog in my book. It's a big-budget picture backed by a major
studio that is a financially dangerous mix of genres, references, and
ideas. It's, in a word, ambitious—and a gamble on just about all
fronts. The result is phenomenal in many regards, less so in others,
but given the current climate of the horror film, this movie offers a
lot of things that you simply do not see much of in genre films (or
just films in general, for that matter) anymore.One could list the aesthetic references for days, though director Gore
Verbinski seems to be heavily influenced by Alfred Hitchcock in
compositions, David Cronenberg in theme, and Mario Bava in both—and
that's probably just the tip of the iceberg. In any case, the film is
visually sumptuous, and honestly one of the best-photographed films
I've seen in perhaps years. Stunning compositions of the castle yard
and the surrounding Swiss Alps need to be seen to be believed, while
the vintage hospital interiors are equally stunning and atmospheric for
different (and more sinister) reasons. While the first twenty minutes
of the film are wildly contemporary, everything that follows seems to
be framed within a pre-World War II vacuum.Needless to say, the film is visually incredible and saturated in a
Euro-Gothic atmosphere that to me seemed quite reminiscent of Bava
(think "Kill, Baby... Kill!" stretched to big-budget parameters). In
terms of narrative, the film is borderline mythical, weaving an entire
history of the sanitorium that, though contrived, is enough to pique
the interest of any self-respecting genre fan. The main problem here is
that the unfurling of that history and its relationship to what is
happening at the sanitorium is not only semi-predictable, but it begins
to drag its feet a bit in the last act of the film, coming to a
conclusion that, though appropriate, feels slightly pedestrian. I don't
want to say the film devolves, but it certainly does cross the
threshold from "genuinely unique amalgam" to "semi-predictable
psychological thriller" somewhere in the third act.In spite of this, however, the film is undeniably fun, and remains
engrossing from start to finish; though the two and a half-hour run
time could have been trimmed a bit, the film never felt tedious to me,
probably because of how skillfully it was able to invent and then
wallow in its own world. Solid performances also help; Dane DeHaan
convincingly plays the young and assertive financier, while Mia Goth is
an ethereal and guileless patient whom he befriends (and who plays a
key part in what is to come). Jason Isaacs is also sinister as the
cool, self-possessed leader of the hospital.While "A Cure for Wellness" certainly deserves some hits for taking a
few predictable narrative routes, I am still somewhat surprised that
it's gotten the negative feedback it has from critics. I think genre
fans will genuinely appreciate it—ranging from sci-fi fans to
through-and-through horror cinephiles like myself—because it uses its
references smartly and evokes an atmosphere that is truly overpowering.
There is enough heady Gothic atmosphere, body horror, and psychological
paranoia to keep everybody engaged. Even when it's predictable and even
when its own mythos registers too absurd, I can't bring myself to knock
it because there is so much it gets right—but I suppose my greater
point is that, even when it doesn't get it right, you never feel
compelled to look away. 8/10.
