1
What the heck did I just watch?

That is exactly what I thought when the film was over.Seriously, that was a Pixar film? You have to be joking.When you get right down to it, it's yet another misfit princess story.
It's about a somewhat unruly princess who wants something different in
life than what her parents want for her. Now how many times have we
seen this story before? I'm not even going to list off those stories,
because most of you know and have seen them by now.Simply, there is nothing in this movie that was memorable and that we
haven't seen before. We get the misfit princess story, and that's
exactly what we get. No surprises. It was all very predictable......until midway through the movie. (SPOILER ALERT) In case you haven't
seen the film, the princess(Merida) is not your typical princess. She's
outgoing - she's a fighter. She is particularly good at archery,
supposedly better than everyone else. But since she's a princess, OF
COURSE she has to marry a prince. Does she want to marry a prince? NO.
Are all of her suitors complete idiots who are unworthy of her?
ABSOLUTELY. Do her parents understand her? OF COURSE NOT. Does this
remind you of any other better movies? So anyway, since her mother in
particular doesn't see eye-to-eye with her, Merida pulls a petty trick
on her by slipping her a potion that would "change her". Gee, this
couldn't turn out to be anything bad, right? Well, it turned out bad
alright, and provided the only surprise in the movie: Her mother turns
into a BEAR! You've got to be kidding me.The rest of the film is spend having Merida trying to undo the spell
whilst goofing around with her mother bear friend. (END SPOILER ALERT) If you are curious enough to see where that part of the story goes, you
should see it for yourself.All in all, it's a very forgettable movie. There were some attempted
laughs in the film, but none that made me so much as chuckle. It was
mostly cookie-cutter children's movie writing; the kind of "funny"
things you'd expect the characters to be saying rather than giving them
some charming uniqueness.Am I the only one who despises the three little boys? The whole time I
got the feeling that the writers were using them as a device to keep
the story interesting for little kids. I had the same complaint about
the three gargoyles in The Hunchback of Notre Dame; They were
irritating and added nothing to the story. All they added were typical
"little boy" mischief that made me yearn for the end of the current
scene.The only amount of heart in this film was after the mother threw
Merida's bow in the fire, and then we see her pull it out of the fire
regretfully, realizing what she had done. Granted, that's not much, but
at least that's SOME glimpse into a character. They could have easily
ended the scene right there, and made the mother look like a complete
witch, but for a brief moment, we get to see a little bit of how the
mother actually feels.Thanks for wasting my money, Pixar!
