4
I couldn't take a second of this seriously.

I saw my first 2013 movie last night, and it was the star-studded
gangster pic Gangster Squad. I had very low expectations going into it,
so I'm glad I didn't leave disappointed. Gangster Squad is a movie that
is trying to be something hip, edgy, and sleek, but honestly, the
dialogue was so clunky I couldn't take a second of the damn thing
seriously.Inspired on a true story (which, in some cases, means that the story is
bull), in 1949, a cop(Josh Brolin) is told to hunt down mob boss Mickey
Cohen (Sean Penn) at any means necessary. So he forms a group of cops
(Ryan Gosling, Michael Pena, Giovanni Ribisi, Robert Patrick, and
Anthony Mackie) to go rogue and kill whoever gets in their way. In
another story arc, Gosling's character is in the middle of a supposed
"dangerous" romance with Cohen's woman Gracie (the always wonderful
Emma Stone, who is a strange choice for the part).Gangster Squad has a cast almost too good to be true. But that's the
thing: It isn't good. There isn't a boring second in this movie, but
yet there aren't many good ones either. We have some of the best living
actors in Hollywood involved, and none of them get to do anything
special. Everyone involved delivers at least one outrageous line. Ryan
Gosling even gives a bad performance, that's how sad it is. Gosling
puts on a Mickey Mouse voice and basically reads off of a teleprompter
for most of the time. Penn is having too much fun here, and he's way
too over the top. But the moments with him are the most interesting.The dialogue is atrocious, the last fifteen minutes is way too loud,
the romance between Gosling and Stone doesn't feel believable, and the
movie itself feels longer than the hunt for Osama Bin Laden. And I
don't mean Zero Dark Thirty, I mean the actual hunt for Bin Laden,
which was ten years. Everyone involved is having a good time, but to me
the whole thing felt like a farce. And that leads to the next problem:
the director.Gangster movies belong to directors like Brian Depalma, Martin
Scorsese, Francis Ford Cappola, and Michael Mann. The masters. They
don't belong to someone like Ruben Fleisher. Fleisher's other credits
are 2009's Zombieland and 2011's mediocre 30 Minutes or Less. Putting
someone like him in the reigns of a movie like this is like letting
Nancy Meyers direct Halloween.Gangster Squad isn't terrible. Only kind of terrible. But if this is
the first movie I've seen in 2013, I truly hope that the year will get
better. I'm looking forward to quite a bit, so hopefully they improve.
I guess that this is the best movie of 2013 so far, and that really is
not saying a whole lot.C-
