8
Will probably be regarded as a "so dumb but so funny" comedy.

There's nothing to it, if all you're looking for
witty/clever/subtle/deep humor, and you hate sexual/stupid/slapsticky
type humor...you will probably still like We're The Millers.It's not a gold mine of comedy by any means, but it did the job it told
us it would do: Make us laugh and give us a fun ride. They really
brought together a dysfunctional family and did it in a way that
allowed for some suspension of disbelief. A lot of comedies nowadays
have those hit or miss scenes where you either laugh, or you just can't
suspend your disbelief and you're sitting there like "Really? Really?
She's gonna poop in the sink?" (guess the reference). We're The Millers
is pretty much a compilation of those kinds of scenes that hit just the
right tone to pull it off as funny, clever and it just kinda grows on
you. The "family" we see on screen for most of the surprisingly high 109
minute runtime is in a lot of ways funny, in some ways disgusting, and
in a few ways charming. The film just works with the pairing of
Sudeikis and Aniston, as we saw for a tiny bit in Horrible Bosses,
which to me is one of the funniest movies in a long while. If you liked
Wedding Crashers, or Hot Tub Time Machine, chances are you'll like this
one, which was written by the 4 screenwriters who worked on those
films. The 2 pairs of writers who have a history with comedy throw some
subtle humor in the dialog which you probably won't get if you're not
paying enough attention, which allows for every comedy lovers dream: To
be laughing out loud, then hearing an ever so subtle joke causing you
to laugh harder, then hearing another one and another and another. The
film was consistently funny in a sense that when it got me, it REEALLLY
got me.Overall, the film is just a slight bit lovable, with characters you
actually kinda like...not too common for a modern comedy. More so than
the story, the laughs came interspersed well enough to where I can't
complain because I did way more laughing than I expected. It wasn't
"rolling on the floor" funny, but I did have some hearty laughs out
loud.Recommended to anyone who enjoyed the previous works by the
screenwriters.7/10EDIT: I ended up seeing it a second time and tried to pay attention to
all of the funny subtlety of one-liners and witty remarks by characters
throughout, and I laughed very hard at quite a few things I didn't
catch the first time. I liked it more the second time and raise my
rating to an 8/10. Is truly a very funny film.8/10
