8
Unmatched visuals and writing, yet sentimentalist and most definitely not Nolan's best directorial work

I will keep this short for the sake of not spoiling anything.Right off i should say I love Nolan. I adore most of his movies, and
Interstellar is no exception. It is a marvelous piece of work whose
visuals will be hard to forget. His shots of space and the way he
played with colors is rather masterful. Maybe i expected it to be
greater than what i saw, but even though i was moved by the movie i did
not quite feel like he created something great with 'Interstellar.'
This could be attributed maybe to his overuse of sentimentalism in the
father-daughter relationship he creates. Nolan really tries to make you
cry with this one. I have never seen him use such powerful emotions in
his movies; however that is not necessarily a good thing for this
movie, given that he uses his time trying to develop a family
relationship at the expense of flow and congruency. Again, the Visuals
are completely off the charts. The visual imagery is truly beautiful
and something that Nolan has always excelled at. Given that the most
visually stunning movie in recent years, Gravity, recently came out,
Interstellar does not lag behind and shows you a spectacle of Visual
effects.He will most likely win Visual effects at the Oscars. The
Hans's score is marvelous and will most likely earn an Oscar
nomination. Matthew Mcconaughey's acting is good, but nothing stellar,
especially coming off the best acting role of his career. He plays the
character like it should be played, but Nolan's characters never being
truly drawn out or rounded does not help him any.The same can be said
for the rest of the cast. The little girl was marvelous though. I do
not want to reveal any piece of the story whatsoever, but i have to
say, it is one of the most original scripts i've ever seen. Ultimately this movie is entertaining. There is no way Nolan can miss
that. Another great thing that Nolan excels at is INSPIRING. By the
time the credits rolled and people walked out, I sat there still in awe
at the strong sense of human will the movie conveys. Personally, I
don't think this is Nolan's best. I believe Memento stands as his
masterpiece. But with Nolan, everyone has their own favorite movie.
Maybe for some, Interstellar will be their favorite movie, for it is
really Nolan's most ambitious and visually-striking work. By the way, Anyone else who even tries to compare Interstellar to
"2001: A Space Odyssey" is out of their mind. Kubrick's mission was to
create art. Nolan in "Interstellar" sets to awe and inspire its
audiences. It is truly a great piece of work.
