1
Grand ideas don't make great movies

It is beyond me how people can claim the movie to be 'brainy', 

'intelligent', 'well written'... With all the things I read about the 

movie prior to seeing it makes it the biggest disappointment I've 

experienced from cinema in years. I give 1 star to bring balance to the 

current rating, in reality this movie is of course not that bad.



The whole idea behind the plot is that McConaughey ended up in this 

blackhole where 5 dimensions were compressed into 3 dimensions and 

stuff, and where he was able to manipulate gravity by sending his 

daughter the message which was imperative for saving humanity. So what 

in fact happened is through this ridiculously improbable chain of 

events McConaughey ended up inside this blackhole. All this was 

apparently the result of a bigger plan all along. Was there really no 

easier way for (future humans/aliens) to transmit this data, and if 

they built this time-space warping machine inside the blackhole - means 

they had access to the data all along? And also means they chose 

McConaughey daughter on purpose? So I don't understand, what was this 

purpose? Could they not have connected their portal to professor's 

office a long time ago, or go for one of the ten billion more rational 

alternatives?



On a side note: is it not funny how McConaughey ignored the message NOT 

TO GO from the same 'ghost' yet followed the rest of the directions? 

While in the end of the movie he idiotically repeats his feeble 

attempt. Had he added 'it's you dad' or any other sensible hint he 

would have saved his daughter years of suffering (and maybe a lifetime 

for himself when he realises this). And I don't even want to get into 

how ridiculous it is that he transmitted data by moving the hands on 

the watch, which was unaffected after being picked up, meaning it was 

hardly gravitational manipulation was it? What was the point of trying 

to be scientific and trying to explain it in this way then. If he could 

do that, he ought to have found a better solution that did not require 

his daughter 25 years to figure out.



And anyway, they saved humanity by building this massive station named 

after his daughter (by that time they knew what he went through and 

they still named it after her?). Why couldn't they have done the same 

thing on Earth? Just build the same goddamn station on Earth without 

needing to harvest their gravitational energy bullsh*t, bam, humanity 

saved in the same way.



Grand ideas don't make great movies if you can't deliver them 

properly... It is atrocity to compare this to Kubrick's masterpiece...
