9
A truly fresh take on a familiar genre - Great

I have to admit, prior to watching this film, I had very little idea of
what to expect from this remake. I was aware of the original but having
not seen it, and despite being a fan of Alexandre Aja and Franck
Khalfoun's other work as a producers and directors such as Switchblade
Romance and P2, was unsure whether this film would be just another
genre slasher movie.I was therefore really surprised, by how original and good the actual
film was. The main selling point is the majority of the film is shown
from our protagonist / anti hero's perspective in a first person
viewpoint. Whilst this has been done before in various guises on other
films and music videos; to have a full film like this particularly a
horror adds a fresh take on something that is quite well worn now and
really brings back memories of the sheer terror displayed by the
victims in something like Peeping Tom (an absolute classic).However, this does not mean it falls into another Paranormal Activity
style shaky handy-cam experience. The cinematography is superb and very
inventive - particularly the night time shots which evoke a beautiful
neon LA night-time haze, reminiscent of Drive or Collateral. You
quickly forget that this is an unusual, slightly alien viewpoint for a
full feature, and become involved in living through Elijah Wood's
character (who manages to achieve an impressive degree of emotion and
empathy through essentially voice-over, hand acting and snatched
glimpses of his reflection in mirrors and car windows). His character is almost an innocent, so un-nerved by human interaction
that whenever he gets into a potentially romantic situation or starts
to feel any kind of lustful feelings he actually becomes physically ill
and quite simply cuts them off and destroys them dead (and in a literal
sense - the person who is causing them). You do almost feel sorry for
him because he is unable to get close to anyone and break this cycle
(but obviously his brutal methods of killing these women, whose only
crime is to show some kind of interest in him, is very disturbing and
not that easy to stomach or sympathise with). The women themselves, because they are the focus of our and the
protagonist's gaze, have to work incredibly hard to make an interaction
with the camera and also not to simply look like they are reciting
lines like a monologue to the screen. It works incredibly well and
naturally for the most part, with fleeting glances out of frame or
nervous looks to their feet when talking to the camera, to really make
the interactions feel natural and real, rather than constantly fixing
their eyes on the centre of the camera lens which would presumably have
been the easiest and most natural thing to do when acting this.All in all then a great film with strong performances, I worry that it
may be too arty for the slasher crowd and too brutal for the art-house
scene but hopefully it will find an audience because it is a great
piece of work. Definitely Recommended!
