2
So many dick jokes...

It's fair to say that Baywatch was never a great television show. Sure,
it was popular but for reasons very different to it actually being a
quality show. It was trashy as hell and combined slow-motion with a
number of scantily clad supermodels running down the beach in bathing
suits so no surprises at all that it attracted viewers. There seems to be a bit of a trend in reviving franchises that were
popular back in the 80s and 90s, and right now, it was the turn of
Baywatch. Quite why is something that I'm still scratching my head
about.When Mitch Buchanan (Dwayne Johnson) butts heads with new recruit Matt
Brody (Zac Efron) over how to run Baywatch, they uncover a local
criminal plot that threatens the future of the bay. As soon as the film started and we see Dwayne Johnson saving someone
before Baywatch rises from the sea in giant letters behind him, I
immediately thought this was going to be exactly what a Baywatch film
should be if it was to be successful. A self aware comedy made as a
parody of the show, in the same way that made the Jump Street films
such a critical and financial success.We get flashes of that formula however, for the most part, Baywatch is
just an awful film. Painfully unfunny and not one memorable action
sequence means it utterly fails as the action comedy it set out to be,
and with a runtime of two hours it becomes one hell of a slog to sit
through. I tried to enjoy it and take it for what it is but the problem is I
just can't do that when there seems to be no effort into making the
film funny, particularly when watching a comedy. Literally every other
joke is a dick joke, including an overly long joke about one of the new
recruits getting their dick stuck in a deck chair. I knew it was going
to be silly and I didn't have high expectations at all but sadly they
weren't even met.Coming to the performances, Baywatch is absolutely lifeless. Even
Dwayne Johnson or Zac Efron, who has shown good comedic timing before,
can't save this from becoming the absolute car wreck that it is.
Alexandra Daddario, Kelly Rohrbach and Ilfenesh Hadera are sure nice to
look at but the film fails them totally in giving them anything
interesting to do, Daddario in particular who is actually quite a
talented actress. Then there is Jon Bass who delivers an irritant of a
performance as he hopelessly lusts after Rohrbach's CJ Parker. I felt
embarrassed for them as they had to perform such a terrible script.I won't even waste time in talking about the pathetic cameo that David
Hasselhoff makes in the film. All I will say is what a waste of a cameo
that had much better potential if they'd actually stopped to think
about it. So there you have it, Baywatch is an awful film that fails as both an
action and a comedy. It's already one of the worst films I've seen this
year and I won't be surprised if it's still up there come the year's
end.
