4
An unexpected disappointment

"All great stories deserve a little embellishment." So says Gandalf the
Grey (Ian McKellen) in the most telling line in The Hobbit: An
Unexpected Journey, Peter Jackson's return to the world of JRR Tolkien.
It's a line that clearly outlines Jackson and his co-writers'
intentions, yet it comes off as a veiled apology, as if the film-making
team knew that what they have created is going to be problematic for
die-hard Middle Earth fans. Sadly, Jackson's new film doesn't come
close to silencing the skeptics like his Lord of the Rings films did,
and is actually more ill-conceived than expected.Things that do work well for the most part in The Hobbit are sequences
that come directly from the source novel. Iconic scenes, such as the
arrival of the dwarfs at Bag End or the encounter with the trolls are
handled pretty well, despite being padded out to unnecessary lengths
with lame gags and pointless alteration of the original events in the
book. Juggling such a massive primary cast is obviously a challenge,
and as such the film's best moments involve only one or two characters,
with Bilbo's (Martin Freeman) meeting of Gollum (Andy Serkis) and the
finding of the ring being a particular stand-out sequence, the only one
that seemed like it could have used more time.However, all of the good work that Jackson & Co do with the direct
source material is swamped by the content they felt they had to develop
themselves. The great achievement of the LOTR films is how they managed
to distill the huge source novels to their most important story beats,
only hinting at most of the wider story in a way that brought
incredible richness to the world in which they take place. With The
Hobbit though, Jackson only has a 300 page novel to start with, and the
decision to make three lengthy films, I assume to parallel the first
trilogy, is precisely why this first film doesn't work.The Hobbit should be allowed to stand alone as its own film, but it is
structured in such a way, almost identically to the first LOTR entry
The Fellowship of the Ring, that it's all but impossible not to compare
them. As a side-effect, the much lighter tone will be jarring for a lot
of established franchise fans, the very people the film seems to be
primarily aimed at. The chase sequence in the goblin tunnels for
example is little more than an updated version of the Moria scenes from
LOTR. It's exciting enough, but much of the action feels in service of
the film- making technology on display rather than the story, and as
such none of the stakes of the earlier films are built here.Where the LOTR films had to keep moving at such a pace to fit
everything in, The Hobbit dwells on unnecessary moments which had only
the briefest of mentions in the novel to reach its 2 hour 49 minute
runtime. Most damaging are the call backs linking the previous trilogy,
setting up what is likely to be an almost completely new story bridge
between the two trilogies in the third film due in 2014. There is
absolutely no reason for Frodo (Elijah Wood), Saruman (Christopher
Lee), and Galadriel (Cate Blanchett) to appear in this story, yet here
they are, taking us away from a perfectly good narrative about a quest
to fight a dragon. It reeks of cynical franchise care, and arguably
disrespectful to the carefully crafted world that Tolkien created.There's a good movie somewhere in The Hobbit, and had Jackson shown
more restraint we might have seen it. The film could easily lose at
least 45 minutes, but it feels as if director feels so beholden to his
previous work that he needs to deliver an epic on the scale of LOTR.
But that's not what this book is, and we're left with an uneasy balance
- the lighter tone to distinguish this as a separate story but a strict
adherence to the LOTR structure - but ultimately doesn't fulfill either
side.tinribs27.wordpress.com
