8
I can see now why it's not called "The Purge 2"

The 2013 movie "The Purge" left a bad taste in all of our mouths as
nothing more than a pseudo-slasher with a hamfisted plot, poor pacing,
and a desperate attempt at "horror." Upon seeing the first trailer for
"The Purge: Anarchy," my first and most immediate thought was "we
really don't need another one of these." The first film was
self-contained and didn't leave any opening for a reasonable sequel.
But after seeing a few more commercials and looking into it some more,
I decided to give this film the benefit of the doubt and I am NOT
disappointed.The film stands on its own feet much better than the first film did,
and mostly because of what it's going for. Instead of trying to be a
Horror movie, it becomes a fantastic Thriller/Action film set in a
pseudo-apocalyptic future about a group of people trying to survive on
a night where it's all-out war on the streets.A lot of themes are explored -- Human Nature, Fear, Anger, Revenge,
Heroism -- in ways that many other movies don't really explore it. And
more than that, every small detail is kept in mind throughout the film.Compared to everything else I've seen so far this year, this is by far
the best thriller film to come out. It holds its own and it has a
message instead of just being a movie about wanton violence. The action
scenes are done well, and the tension is enough to keep interest even
in the low parts of the film. Every moment you think is safe leads
directly into the next moment of pressure for the main characters, and
you can't help but sympathize for the characters who (all but one)
don't even want to be stuck out here on this horrid night.I very highly recommend this film to anyone who likes thrillers or
action films with a little bit of psychological horror thrown in.And a little bit of a tip? Forget everything from the first film. "The
Purge" doesn't set up or explain anything that this film doesn't,
doesn't add anything to this film, and isn't even worth watching
beforehand.The Purge: Anarchy is a great film in its own right and it's worth
watching. My only issue is that the first film couldn't have been more
like this.
