2
A film so concerned with being a political statement that it forgets to be a good film.

Hidden Figures tells the story of three African American women in the
late sixties as they become instrumental to NASA in putting John Glen
on the moon. Directed by Theodore Melfi and stars Taraji P. Henson,
Octavia Spencer, Kevin Costner and Kirstin Dunst, Hidden Figures would
be a good film had it not been so concerned with the idea of the
empowerment of women that it forgot to be a good, engaging film. It has
the proper ingredients to become a heavy hitter but trades it in using
its excellent cast as more of a political statement than anything else.The film starts off by introducing us to Katherine Johnson, Dorothy
Vaughn, and Mary Jackson (Henson, Spencer and Janelle Moàne) in almost
the exact same ways. We see that Katherine is a number cruncher and a
brilliant woman all around...then the exact same character traits are
rehashed for Spencer and Moàne's characters. There is nothing different
between the women, there are 3 of the same character in one film. The
only difference between the three is Taraji P. Henson's excellent
performance that makes her thoroughly enjoyable throughout a film that
would have been a direct-to-digital film otherwise. The film does very
little to give any development to these women and keeps drowning us in
the notion that "this is girl power." It became extremely redundant
after awhile and left me waiting for the film to get serious but it
never did. This is a film that is more about what the characters did
rather than how and why they did it.Overall, Hidden Figures is a bland film with paper thin characters that
tries to make more of a political statement rather than make a good
film. This is a perfect example of political climate affecting creative
endeavors. If there were anything I could say it is: if you're going to
see the film, see it for no other reason than Taraji P. Henson's
excellent performance. Taking her out of this film in any way, shape or
form would have probably stopped this film in the development process
but then again, maybe that is where this should have stayed.
