2
That poor teacher...

You know that feeling when critics and everybody around you praise some
movie and give it the best rating, while you think it's a bowl of poop?
Yea...This is a story of 17 years old girl Nadine. Nadine has problems.
Nobody likes her, her brother is a douche bag, she misses her father
that's just passed away, her only friend starts dating her brother, her
mother doesn't understand her, she's depressed and overall misery and
angst.That's what people responsible for this poop want you to think. All I
see is self centered, loud, annoying brat with imaginary problems, no
hobbies, terrible personality and true, scary aggression of a raging
bull boiling under her skin. She was supposed to be this sad character
that audience is supposed to identify with and care about. But I
didn't. I was amazed how Nadine kept doing the dumbest things
imaginable over and over again, how many old teenage movies plot tricks
there are, how every 'person' in this movie is just a plot device to
push the 'story' a bit further, how muddled and awkward this bore fest
feels.The only good thing about the movie was in the title of my review. The
teacher, played by Woody Harrelson. And by the way, apparently in that
school there's only this one guy, because you never see other teachers
or our heroine taking some other classes. So our main character is
constantly coming to him to throw up her verbal diarrhea about her
miserable life and the guy wants to help her, but she doesn't listen,
because she's just sad, annoying brat with mental problems.Few words about R rating. There are 2 categories of R rated movies. The
ones that feel natural, where violence and profanity feels like an
integral part of a story (Tarantino and Scorsese movies for example)
and movies like Edge of Seventeen in which characters just swear a lot.
It comes out as fake and forced and it doesn't impress me in the least.SPOILERS ABOUT THE ENDING The ending is just laughably bad. The change of Nadine's character is
one of the most unconvincing in movie history. She just magically turns
180 degrees overnight. Angst is gone, problems don't matter anymore,
she's just happy person all of the sudden! She even starts dating this
talentless, rich, clearly retarded (can't even construct a proper
sentence) Asian guy that was hitting on her for the entire run time of
a movie and everything's fine now, happiness is all around, so hooray.
I guess.END OF SPOILERS So yea, The Edge of seventeen. A movie about loud, aggressive girl with
imaginary problems and poor Woody Harrelson plopped as a cherry on top
of a crap cake.2/10, terrible movie.
