7
Noble  Experiment, Sadly Disappointing (SPOILERS!)

Like many of Richard Linklater's films, Boyhood will will continue to
inspire controversy and enjoy notoriety for many years to come. All
serious film-goers will see it and discuss it. Many will love it. Some
will not.As a member of Richard Linklater's Austin Film Society I was
predisposed to like this film a lot. The uniformly rave reviews from
festivals and major media film critics set my expectations at the
highest level.I loved the director's earlier, pioneering masterstroke of experimental
technique, Waking Life, and his uncanny ability to bring complex,
fascinating characters to life on the screen, as in Bernie. I'm not a
big fan of his slacker films, but Boyhood bore the promise of what I
saw as the best of Linklater's filmography: applying an unprecedented
and challenging creative methodology to a story about the evolution of
characters over time. Wow!My wife warned me that I was setting myself up for disappointment. She
was right. The film turned out to be a lengthy, disappointing,
mockumentary about the evolution of a slacker. The production values were uniformly good, earning an A for effort, but
the narrative line meandered aimlessly as moderately interesting
characters aged, a C at best. Overall, a B minus. (7/10 stars)Over the course of 12 years Mason, a thoughtful, energetic, and
charming little boy turns into a passive, whining cipher who walks like
a zombie. His mother serenely makes innumerable bad life choices but
unexpectedly implodes as her youngest leaves for college, while his
estranged father evolves from slacker to relatively responsible adult -
about 10 years too late to have any redeeming value to his son.
Linklater's daughter, Lorelei plays Samantha, an almost unremittingly
insensitive and obnoxious child, even as a twenty year old. The principal adult actors, Arquette and Hawke, as well as the
supporting cast of step-parents, friends and relatives did a highly
professional job, portraying complex, multi-dimensional characters who
grew and changed over the course of the film. Sadly, the ostensible
focal point of the exercise, the boy, devolved into another
irresponsible slacker. According to a local interview with the director, Lorelei asked early
on if her character might be allowed to die, ending her participation
in the creative endeavor. Perhaps she anticipated the lack of universal
acclaim for her father's most recent effort - a noble experiment, but
to some, a disappointing result.
