7
A Cello Runs Through It

The cello is my favorite musical instrument. One of my favorite movies
of all time is the Japanese Oscar Best Foreign Language film winner
"Departures" and a cello played a prominent part in that one. "If I
Stay" is another film in which a cello takes center stage, and I would
not miss it even for that reason alone."If I Stay" is a dramatic film about a shy cello-playing teenager named
Mia Hall. She has cool supportive parents, who were once in the punk
scene. Her boyfriend Adam is the front man of an up-and-coming rock
band. Everything seemed to be going swimmingly with her. She is
awaiting for her acceptance letter from the Julliard School. Then one
beautiful winter day, a tragic car accident happens.I was looking forward to good cello music, and it did not disappoint.
Those music in those scenes showing Mia auditioning for Julliard were
breathtaking. As it turns out though, the cello music is not the only
thing good about this film.This film is a tearjerker of the highest order. The script was written
in very emotional language by Shauna Cross based on a best-selling
novel by Gayle Forman. Thankfully, the cast, though mostly unknown
except for the lead actress, does very well in bringing this script to
life.Chloe Grace Moretz is really a phenomenal young actress. She gained
attention as the ultra-violent It Girl, the best part of the "Kick Ass"
films. Now a little more grown-up as Mia, Moretz provides this role the
grace and elegance. A lesser actress may have made those death scenes
mawkish and those romance scenes cheesy. Those cello-playing scenes
were killer scenes.Jamie Blackley was fine as Mia's boyfriend Adam. He seemed
uncomfortable at times, and his chemistry with Moretz was not entirely
convincing. I like the actors who played Mia's parents Denny and Kat
better, Joshua Leonard and Mireille Enos. That New Year's Day scene
where Kat was drying the dishes while Mia washed was especially
well-written and well- acted out. I had seen Liana Liberato in her devastating film debut as a victim of
child rape in "Truth." She also did well her as Mia's loyal friend Kim.
I think this is the first time I have seen perennial bad guy Stacy
Keach in a role that made him so emotionally raw as Mia's grandfather.The storytelling, with its weaving in and out of past and present
events, was very well-edited. However, the pace taken by Director RJ
Custer can feel very slow and repetitive at certain times in the
middle, which made me look at my watch a few times. Overall though, it
was effective in its intention as a tear-jerking romance. Your
handkerchief or tissue paper will definitely get wet with this film
with its many touching scenes.
