5
Must disengage brain entirely to enjoy

With so much talent in this film, it's so disappointing that the
writers were right . Don't waste a dime on developing a sensible plot
because the hordes of fans will eat this crap up like it was a 5 star
meal. Hence the 8.1 star rating which reflects a demographic with time
on their hands and a studio with plenty of marketing budget.On the bright side - the CGI is great. The sets are beautiful. There
are some very funny moments. The cast still has some chemistry with
each other. And I've seen movies that were much worse and unwatchable
than this one. But I wouldn't be honest if I didn't give this a very
generous 5 because of the horrendous, deficient plot. And after this
film I'd have to say that I've about had enough with this series. We've
heard the story, had some fun with the characters and it's clear that
what was fun, fresh and original is what it should have been - a one
film wonder leaving Hollywood to develop another story. Without giving away the big reveal or true spoilers, I'll explain the
problem that are evident throughout the entire film:(1) Repeated jokes as if we're supposed to be warmed to it, e.g. how
dumb and oblivious baby Groot is (except when he needs not to be.)
Funny at the opening moment and gets more difficult to stomach as we
make our way through.(2) The fact that our heroes are never really in danger. They are
always somehow able to avoid dangers of the most extreme kind for
prolonged periods while they joke during the encounter and then you
know they will be saved by some unknown force to be named shortly.(3) The abject stupidity of supremely smart characters. Because we need
those whose level of intelligence is off the charts to continue to do
some really stupid or missing the obvious for a prolonged period of
time but just enough for our heroes to have the time to do something to
save themselves and the galaxy from certain destruction.(4) The explanation of the villain's plan made absolutely no sense. It
was the usual pseudo-brilliant but amorphous hogwash that only made
sense when you were 5 years old in the world of make believe without
having to think about whether there was any logic.(5) Occasional product placement. Fedex anyone? It's one thing to have
a "special moment" and another to believe we're too stupid to
understand why it happened. And then there is Baby Groot who exists and
will continue to exist solely for merchandising... Too cute to kill
off. ;)
