4
Visually impressive, but utterly uninspired. Could have been great

After seeing this movie, and then seeing the other reviews for it
online, I felt the need to write my opinion in order to share why some
did not like it and why I feel it could have been far better under
different direction.First of all, I generally like Marvel's films. They manage to put out
new stories virtually every year and incorporate new characters into
their ensemble. They've also mastered the art of masking each film as
original and fresh, and for the most part it's just a fun time at the
cinema. But the problem is that eventually, while you will always be
able to pick new heroes from the massive wealth Marvel has created
through comics, the formula, the acting, the uninspired scripts and
classic gimmicks will become stagnant and even begin to bore the
audience. I wanted to like Doctor Strange, and I, too, was convinced by the
trailers that it would be captivating and interesting and thought-
provoking. But twenty minutes into the movie and I could already tell
how this was probably going to go.The acting was to be expected given the cast they chose, but nothing
stood out. Benedict Cumberbatch played a convincing Doctor Strange, but
his character was completely static - I felt no indication that he had
changed in the slightest by the end of the film (which is what the
filmmakers were lazily trying to portray), and I couldn't even figure
out why he suddenly wanted to fight the enemy in the first place. The
rest of the characters were poorly fleshed out, and I found myself
caring little for any of them, a phenomenon that did not occur when I
watched "Iron Man" or "Guardians of the Galaxy". The jokes and
wise-cracks felt especially childish this time around, and even out of
place in the face of sincerely substantial ideas such as alternate
dimensions and the fabric of time and space. Additionally, the pace
simply felt rushed and awkward, and like I said before, I just couldn't
find myself caring for any of the one- dimensional, superficial
characters.The plot was formulaic, which is typical and expected of Marvel; hero
suddenly has powers, hero is confronted by conflict larger than
himself, hero acts selflessly to save the day and the girl, hero
returns and the film ends with some good old fashioned comic relief
(Wang laughing, in this case). Normally I could enjoy this, but
combined with the tepid acting, shallow characters and strange pacing,
the whole plot and film just felt... tired. Even with the great visuals
(which were truly impressive and to the benefit of the movie), I simply
didn't enjoy it. I wanted more, a more interesting script that had at
least a couple memorable or provocative lines rather than none, a
stronger character arc, a better and more menacing villain (spoilers
aside, the final confrontation was COMPLETELY underwhelming and mildly
ridiculous), and, all-in-all, a more enticing movie. I really think "Doctor Strange" could have been a lot better of a film,
but I feel like the filmmakers were just flat-out lazy this time
around. While I do recognize the cash-cow that is Marvel, I just hope
this isn't the beginning of the end for their good movies, movies with
at least a little bit of substance. They still plan to cram over a
dozen heroes into Infinity War, and if as little heart and care is put
into it as was put into this one, it could be a very bad, shallow,
exhausted film.3.5/10 for great visuals and a relatively coherent plot.
