6
Not as great as I thought it was going to be but still enjoyable

I got Ice Age 4 for Christmas and I just watched it. And what did I
think of it? Well it goes a little something like this: After all the
hype and excitement from hearing about it coming out and all, it sort
of disappointed me a little when I finally watched it. It definitely
wasn't the best film in the series but it was still pretty decent and
enjoyable. The voice actors did a pretty great job with their characters,
particularly Wanda Sykes, Peter Dinklage and surprisingly, Drake and
Nicki Minaj. I think they fit them perfectly. I really wasn't expecting
Nick Frost and Jennifer Lopez to be part of the film, but they too did
a good job in the end. The visuals have definitely improved a lot from the first film, like
the fur and water details, the surroundings and all that. The main villain of the film, Captain Gutt, was brilliantly executed, I
think he was the most menacing of all the Ice Age villains. Peter
Dinklage did a superb job voicing him, he never fell flat and he
definitely made me like him. And I think the main thing that I liked most about the film was Diego
finally gets a love interest, Shira played by Jennifer Lopez. Aww,
don't worry, maybe you'll finally get one in the next film, Sid. Now onto the bad points. The humour did fall a little flat in some
places. It was kind of funny in some bits but in the rest, I didn't
laugh when they were trying to be funny and make you smile. I mean, I
did chuckle a bit but that's it.The Scrat scenes just weren't as funny as they used to be. In fact,
they're now kind of getting ridiculous. The beginning and last scenes
of the film were the ones I particularly didn't find funny at all, just
stupid really. Although I greatly liked the storyline with the pirates, I felt it
didn't really fit with the film series. I mean, first they meet humans,
global warming, encountering dinosaurs, now PIRATES? I mean, where the
heck did THAT come from? What next, in the next film, they're gonna be
driving cars? Or inventing electricity? Or trapped in modern times? And the main thing that really bugged me in the film was the teenager
stereotypes. Throughout the film, they portrayed the teenagers as rude,
rebellious delinquents who always run around doing dangerous stunts,
nearly getting themselves killed and not caring about their own safety.
Like, "oh, I'm a teenage boy, so I MUST alway say "Burn!" and "That was
insane!" or "oh, I'm a teenage girl, so I MUST be a stuck-up jerk who
only cares about the way I look". But bottom line, I enjoyed this film. It wasn't a masterpiece or one of
the BEST films of 2012 but it was still very enjoyable. There were a
few bad points, but if you liked the first Ice Age film, then you'll
like this one too.
