10
The narrative's genius embeds observer-effect with great accuracy — unforgettable masterpiece.

Consider first the setting. It may be quiet and idyllic, but merry
laughter and droll humour open the scene. A group of middle-aged manboys are clowning around by the lake. They
are long-time friends of The Hunt's central character, Lucas —
bespectacled 42 year old ex-professor, recently divorced and too old to
be waddling in the water like a toddler at playtime.But the time is November in this unknown Danish village and everyone is
having a good time in yet another get-together. Friends have known each
other for years, people know people on a first name basis, many have
lived here for generations and Lucas, is just another face in this
jolly, close-knit community — nondescript and mellow, respected and
well-liked.We are told that Lucas (played with artful and refined precision by
Mads Mikkelsen) is not without the woes that come with modern adult
life. Living alone and seeking custody of teenage son Marcus (newcomer
Lasse Fogelstrøm), he is an ordinary man trying to rebuild from ground
up as a kindergarten teacher. Immediately you can see that he is kind
and friendly because Lucas walks young Klara home, and chats with her
father, also his best friend, Theo. The two men share lasagne while
fussing over pet dogs and hunting rifles. You acknowledge that Lucas
has earned his place in this neighbourhood and relationships are in
complete accord. Then the maiming of his middle-class existence begins.Klara develops a schoolgirl crush and puerile gestures are sensibly
rebuffed. Nothing unpredictable or startling at this point. You've
heard of such awkward incidents before. But Lucas is then accused of
something he did not commit because Klara said something to avenge an
earlier rejection.This is where The Hunt succeeds with penetrating insights into social
phenomenon — soon after she causes harm, Klara attempts to recant the
accusation without success. Here, writer-director Thomas Vinterberg
absolves Klara from absolute blame and sets the stage for unreasonable
and sinister conclusions. Watching the film from here on out is an unforgettable and riveting
experience.It is natural to assume The Hunt simply alludes to the concept of
"Witch Hunt", and contents itself with being dramatized fiction about
falsely accusing the innocent. But if that were so, the brilliant scene
where Klara was interviewed would not have alarmed with its disturbing
methodology. The narrative's genius embeds observer-effect with great accuracy and
insight into expectations of Klara, and her subsequent reaction.
Vinterberg denies us simple solutions in which adults are perceptive
enough to decipher the truth. For example, Ole the counsellor, ushered
in from an unknown organization is scruffy and slightly unkempt.
Characteristically unlikeable, he wears an implicit stereotype on his
face and contaminates Klara's testimony by coaxing with a few hints,
"Do you remember, if something white came out?"She stares blankly, yet revulsion grows and collective hysteria spreads
— allowing The Hunt to unveil itself as a carefully executed
masterpiece. The clues match only because suggestive prompts are
pushing the limits of disturbing reality.The canvas is visually precise; casting is pitch-perfect (especially
that of Annika Wedderkopp in her excellent portrayal of Klara) and the
script is cautiously penned.Based on transcripts of police interrogations conducted on suspected
paedophiles in Denmark, the US and several European countries;
Vinterberg investigates cause-effect with chilling authenticity. There is no doubt that The Hunt is antithesis to "Festen", an earlier
work depicting the same subject matter but don't be mistaken — this
film does not involve itself with controversial material for the sake
of obligatory endorsements. Relentless and intense plot is enriched by characters reacting with
protective instincts that come naturally simply because they care for
one another. We see the internal worlds of Lucas, Theo, Marcus and
Klara, and observe the impact of rotten dynamic unfolding before our
very eyes. This forces us, spectators with an omniscient view to sit-up
and question judgement using rational exactitude.Short analysis of the ending >>> The Hunt is a superb, penetrating
study of human agency and in the end, some mysteries remain unknowable.
There are several narratives attempting to interpret the final scene,
and who the shooter really is. This person may very well be the same
culprit who killed Fanny. Is it Klara's older brother, who has
demonstrated protectiveness over her? Perhaps a disgruntled retail
assistant from the grocery store? Maybe a figment of Lucas's anxious
imagination from knowing life can easily cast him from the status of a
hunter to that of a prey?These questions continue to linger because The Hunt's technical finish
is open-form and resists finite closure. The image of an unknown
rifleman, indistinct and in hiding is a conveyor of figurative
conclusions. By doing such, Vinterberg employs artistic device to
suggest that attitudes may be outwardly placid, but remain violent and
embittered covertly. Just as it is with real life, some hostility can't
be neutralized and a malevolent presence continues to loom over the
horizon, willing to perpetuate an abyss of moral panic.https://cinemainterruptus.wordpress.com
