2
After Earth

After Earth should be retitled After Birth, because that is exactly how
sloppy and dirty this pathetic excuse for a film is. Gross analogy, I
know, but trust me, a delivery room after a woman has given birth is a
better produced show then this. I honestly don't even know where to
start. The film decided to market itself as a Will Smith film, which
was the only way to get people to go because of how silly its plot is.
Even the Will Smith fans were let down because all he does is sit in a
chair the whole time and speak to his son in an over-serious and
unintentionally hilarious monotonous voice. He easily gives his worst
performance to date, but it is not quite the worst acting in the film.
Jaden Smith gives a Razzie worthy performance as an underdeveloped
character with a useless upsetting past and an ear-cringing accent. He
whines and makes the most stupid mistakes a film character has ever
made in the history, provided by the horrendous Shamylan-Esq screenplay
where you can't tell if its supposed to be funny or not. "He let me
borrow the book Moby Dick, he even let me hold it.""Hold what?" "The
book...dad" Word for word. This comes off as a terrible joke some sixth
grader tries to make, and there are many nonsense lines like this
crammed into the ridiculous plot with gaping and obvious plot holes.
Why is he making a fire when he's right above a geothermic vent? Why in
the heck did the bird who just tried to eat him save his life? Why is
that oxygen mask working when its not even attached to anything? Why
did Jaden need to get higher on the volcano to send out the
transmission when he was just getting closer to the "radioactive
cloud"(dafuq)? A ton of these mistakes are so obviously scattered
throughout the terrible script. It really just makes it funny. If you
enjoy being entertained by stupid movies, I definitely recommend you
check this out because it is so bad its funny.GRADE: D- (The only reason I'm not giving this piece of crap an F is
because it's still not as bad as Last Airbender, so you need to give
Shamylan some credit)
