1
Mendez and Craig new milestone Worst Bond Movie Ever !!!  Avoid it !!

James Bond or Agent 007 has been since it beginning in books and
specially in movies the standard male fantasy. He can seduce any women,
practice every sport and win, drink as much as he wished and never get
drunk, live all the fashion. drive the best cars (preferable Aston
Martin) or any other vehicle (like jets, Helicopters, boats) and fight
and kill any enemy without regret. The Regan era; and sadly most of his
followers; consider the emblematic British spy as a piece of crap and
decided to moralize it; both Timothy Dalton movies kisses required an
AIDS test. Luckily Pierce Brosnan's Bond was somewhat a back to the
origins. He smiled and made jokes;, seduced women, drink and kill when
necessary; but some Hollywood asshole and a few absurd critics; decided
it was becoming a parody and wanted for Jason Bourne style. A killer
without personality looking for vengeance. Those critics; obviously did not know or even care to understand that
Bond's movies were meant for entertainment and never to be taken
seriously. It gave us the people who lived and suffered the Cold War;
some hope that WW III will not happen.But; the people who control movie industry decided to think for the
people and very little care about public want. So they created this monster. Daniel Craig's Bond is basically a
tortured person looking for vengeance. Humor is gone; and it is hard to
believe a person without any kind of charisma could seduce anybody or
even have any friend.His previous three movies; had at least a decent action scenes that
compensated somehow for the lack of fun in the full movie; but this
time Mendez and Craig decided to ruin everything for everybody.The peak of the movie is the short sequence before the titles. It is
somewhat original (at least the helicopter part); but nothing after
that comes even closer to be entertaining.To make matters worse; Tom Cruise's MI-Rogue Nation; has basically the
same script. In fact Cruise's self righteous movie has infinite more
humor and ten times more action than this absurd drama.Mendez who did a good thing with Javier Barden in the previous movie;
waste in this one group of outstanding actors never letting do anything
interesting.Christoph Waltz has little change to become an interesting villain and
whenever he is able to show his charisma; something stupid happens (who
has the stupid idea of making them foster brothers ?). Monica Bellucci
is there for no reason. Léa Seydoux could have been replaced for a
cardboard; since her chances to act are minimal. Ralph Fiennes looks
bored in his short screen time; obviously because his character is not
interesting at all.As I stated before; in terms of action; aside from the first scene;
there is not much more. There are a car and plane chase that is interesting. a car chase that
is too simple and too dark to enjoy, a few clichéd fights with Dave
Bautista and others, a few shootings and an explosion at the end that
is simple cheap.None of the action pieces makes a lot of sense and do not take more
than half hour in total; so the other two hours of the movie are
basically bad acting (Craig with this stone face), terrible dialog
(everywhere) and a few postal shots of a train in the desert.It is obvious the movie was troubled when start and director; after
making history on create the most successful Bond ever; both want to
quit.Why they accepted, other than contractual obligations and a paycheck,
are beyond my knowledge; but does not justify this disaster. We the
public do not deserve this type of insult.In brief; a very bad movie that you should avoid and let the producers
know this is not the kind of cinema we are willing to see.
