4
Slow paced abduction movie...

I must admit that I had somewhat expected something more from director
and writer Ben Young at the helm of "Hounds of Love". Why? Well,
because of the rating the movie had scored here on IMDb and also
because of the synopsis of the movie.However, it turned out that "Hounds of Love" is rather slow paced, and
it doesn't really kick up into a high gear at any point. So while the
storyline is actually interesting enough, it just felt like it was
needlessly prolonged by the slow pacing of the storytelling.The acting in the movie was top notch, and they had some really good
talents on the cast list. Now, I wasn't familiar with anyone on the
cast list prior to watching "Hounds of Love", so it was a nice change
to have brand new faces on the screen. I will say that Stephen Curry
was exceptionally good in the role of the sleazy predator John White.
And Emma Booth was equally good in the role of Evelyn White. And it
should also be noted that Ashleigh Cummings in the role of the victim
Vicki Maloney was also doing a fantastic job.The character gallery in the movie was adequate, although it was
primarily John White and Evelyn White, the two predators, that had the
most meat on their backstories, so to say. These two characters are the
ones fleshed out the most during the movie. It was a shame that not
much focus or energy was channeled into Vicki Maloney, and she came off
as sort of a faceless individual with no story.There is a good atmosphere set in the movie, and there is definitely a
sense of reality and authenticity to the movie. And that worked out so
well in favor of the movie.The music used in the movie was quite interesting, because it helped to
add to the flavor and setting of the movie. And it was subtle enough to
be background music, but still demanding enough attention to be
prominent and a part of the movie.I must admit that it was somewhat of a struggle to sit through the
entire movie, given the incredibly slow pace that the movie
monotonously trotted ahead in.The dialogue in the movie was adequate, taking into consideration the
slow pace of the movie. So the dialogue was actually nicely timed and
matched the excruciating slow pace of the storytelling.There is some brutality in the movie, which might be upsetting or
disturbing to some viewers. And I must admit that it was quite
uncomfortable when John White was kicking the dog to death. While you
don't actually see this, you hear the sounds, and that was rather
impacting."Hounds of Love" wasn't what I had expected, so I can't really claim to
have been properly entertained by the movie. And it was somewhat of an
ordeal to sit through this movie to the very end.
