7
Review from a Vietnamese: Good movie but just no there yet

No Escape has me on the edge of my seat for several moments. The
intensity of the movie is real. Well done producer, but you still miss
the shot by that much. The story is about Jack Dwyer and his families traveling to a South
East Asian movie to settle down so he can work for a water company
there. However, they soon find out that a coup has broken out and local
rebels are trying to kill all foreigners they see because those
foreigners are making them slave by control the water sources. Jack has
to walk through hell, fight off enemies to escape to Vietnam. Cool, really good plot. However, it can be much better. I want to know
better about the villain, not just mindless criminals. I want a bit of
side story and explanation. Although Mr.Hammond did explain a bit, I
feel that detail is just too shallow and it is not developed good
enough. I feel that bit is not necessary, a normal coup for power is
fine for me. Don't mark everything America with star, stripes and
eagle.The movie also has several errors. Such as when Annie told her daughter
to hide in the bathroom and lock, she ran the opposite direction in the
bedroom, but later the wife was standing in front of the bathroom next
to the main door (hotel, 1 bathroom only).Also when the sniper try to kill them, Hammond and Kenny did a terrible
job on keeping an eyes out. Moreover, if I am a rebel and I know they
are staying up there, I will send several men to get them right there,
not just staying in the tower and shoot. That is a terrible strategy. Hammond was really cool character, but he does not have enough screen
time, which is a total let down. The ending scene was not well played, I feel it rushes too much and I
feel they take only 5 minutes to get to Vietnam border. And the truck
was chasing, if they planned to kill, why don't they just shoot when
the boat still on the other side? What hold them back? I would prefer
the ending scene on a road than the river. As I want to see a bit more
standoff between Vietnamese force and rebels. LIKE: Good plot Decent Acting Good "South East Asian" Atmosphere
Hammond Intensity and violence Vietnam is safe havenDISLIKE: Plot was not well developed in side story Movie errors and
nonsense Screen time for Hammond was not enough Ending sceneOTHER STUFF FOR DISCUSSION: OK, the country in the movie, is not real.
So calm down guys. It was filmed in Thailand, people speaking Laotian
and minority languages and all the signs are in "up side down"
Cambodian Khmer. It is a movie okay? There is no country's city has direct fly from US
and couple of miles away from Vietnam, of course.I personally like this movie, it reflects partly the truth of several
South East Asian countries now. Cambodia is going through big political
war between the current gov and the politicians who want to wage a war
with Vietnam. Thing was really tense at Vietnam's border couple of
months ago. I saw someone rated this movie bad and said it is a racist movie
because white people escapes. Calm the f*ck down, it is an action
movie, not a lovely soft humane story. Don't bring the refugee crisis
in here, movie is movie, real life is real life. Rate it 7.5/10
