5
Elysium is visually gorgeous but its story and characters left me cold and disappointed

After director Neill Blomkamp's fantastic debut film District 9 I was
understandably eager to see his new sci-fi film Elysium. Unfortunately
his second feature doesn't quite match up with the greatness that was
District 9.Visually the film is quite stunning and it has some great
cinematography when it comes to the larger shots. The CGI effects are
excellent and blend in well with the environment. The Earth of the film
looks very gritty, believable and lived-in and the space station
Elysium has this very sterile and futuristic look to it. You could
really buy it that Earth could look like this with many decades of
neglect and poverty. Everything's in disrepair and in decline. The rich
on the other hand have every resource available to them in their own
little paradise in space. The set and production designers truly did a
great job with the locations. Matt Damon is decent as the film's protagonist Max who is an ex-con now
working on assembling the droids which keep order on the now
overpopulated Earth. His role and the writing of his character isn't
anything too special or memorable but he does what he can with it. He's
just a no nonsense guy who is thrown into a difficult situation. He was
also quite sarcastic and funny when he was dealing with the droids in
the earlier part of the film but we didn't see this side of him at all
after that. Alice Braga plays Max's childhood friend Frey with whom Max
meets up again when he's an adult. I didn't feel much of an emotional
connection or chemistry between them though and that hampered the film
a bit. Their back story is told almost completely in sentimental
flashback sequences which I didn't care for. The antagonists in this
film were very one-dimensional and over the top. Jodie Foster plays
Elysium's defense minister Delacourt and Sharlto Copley (who was also
in District 9) plays an undercover agent named Kruger who is positioned
on Earth. They're both very cliché and uninteresting. The writing of
all the characters wasn't very good at all in this film and I didn't
get emotionally invested in any of them. The story isn't that great either and this then also takes away from
the film's many action sequences because we don't have that big a stake
in them. The film starts quite strongly as it juxtaposes the situation
on Earth and on Elysium to highlight the problems of social and
economic inequality. Then suddenly when the action starts, these issues
fade far in to the background in favor of more and more action. From
the trailers and the hype I really got this impression that the film
would deal with these issues in a thoughtful manner. Regrettably this
is not the case with this film. A big problem with the film is also
that none of the characters seems to learn anything new or change their
beliefs or anything like that. A huge part of the success of District 9
was in seeing how the main character evolved after spending some time
with the aliens. In Elysium the good guys are the good guys and bad
guys are the bad guys. There's no complexity, nuance or subtlety in any
of them. We also don't get to meet any other citizens of Elysium beside
the higher up leaders like defense minister Delacourt and president
Patel. It would've been interesting to see the common people of Elysium
and how they react to the situation, what their beliefs are and what
drives them. The writing is also a little too pointed out and
heavy-handed. Some of it just made me think "Wow, really?". For
example, at one point the CEO of the droid production company literally
tells some mid-level manager not to breathe at his direction. Things
also seem to happen way too conveniently to push the plot along. Then
again you could say this about many films but you really start to pay
attention to these things when you're not completely engrossed in the
film. This film surely would've benefited from a more subtle approach.
The ending was also way too simplistic for my taste.The action in this film is quite intense and it looks very impressive
at times. The exoskeletons were fun and looked convincing. Then comes
the shaky cam. Oh boy. It's really quite annoying and very often it's
hard to see what's going on. They should've really taken a page from
the Bourne movies on how to shoot action scenes. Luckily the shaky cam
isn't there all the time but the action could've definitely been
improved with a clearer shooting style.All in all, the film has decent action with absolutely gorgeous visuals
and it moves along at a good pace. Sadly the writing, the plot and the
characters aren't that interesting and it's hard to get emotionally
invested in this film. It's watchable and probably quite entertaining
if you're in the proper mood for it. For me, the film ultimately left
me a bit cold and disappointed.
