7
Godzilla 2014: Should You Watch It?

Scenario 1: If you are going to see this film because you really enjoy
classic Godzilla movies and you hope the music and campy theme of those
films are represented in this one, you absolutely should go see it.
Godzilla here looks much more like the beloved behemoth than it did in
the '98 movie, the music hearkens to the classic Japanese overtures of
the old Gojira film era, and the camera work has the comically silly
nature of Sam Rami's Spiderman series.Scenario 2: If you are really excited to see a deep, human film with
camera angles and writing that really tell a story that is thematically
transcendent such as "District 9" and the Korean film "The Host," this
is not your film. The script is filled with overtly simplistic rhetoric
and one dimensional characters (intentionally,) the scenes somehow
manage to have very little tension (even for me, the pilot episodes for
most sitcoms seem more tense than Gozilla,) and as stated above, the
camera-work is intentionally hammy. It should also be noted that to add
a human element, the director overuses children to the point that it
ends up feeling very obvious, as though he did it to be intentionally
campy.Scenario 3: If you are one of those people who really just want a fun
popcorn flick such as Pacific Rim, with some solidly choreographed
action like in the over-the-top bulletfest Battle:LA, I would say
proceed with caution. The fight scenes are less intense and more
majestic, like any classic monster movie, and as such the human aspect
of the combat is relatively insignificant, less so than any other
monster movie I've ever seen. There are no little monsters for anyone
to shoot at, if that's your thing.Scenario 4: If you are interested in this film because you love the
talented work of Bryan Cranston, Ken Watanabe, and/or Aaron Taylor-
Johnson (three of my favorite actors) and are excited to see what they
bring to the table, you should probably sit this one out. Bryan
Cranston's role in this film garners far less screen time than
advertised, Ken Watanabe spends literally every second walking through
the scenes with the pained expression of someone who just walked in on
their parents, and all three of the actors give off the vibe that they
are very much aware of how cheesy their lines are. Everyone else's
performance was similarly forgettable.Honestly, I'm a stickler for deep, human storytelling, but I've also
had a softspot for the classic, silly fun of many Godzilla movies,
including my favorite, Godzilla vs. Destroyah. All told, depending on
which camp you fall under, this will be an entirely different movie for
you. As Godzilla movies go, I'd give it a B. As darker, more serious
monster movies go, I'd give it a D+.
