9
Near the top of the Hanks ladder

Based on true events, Paul Greengrass' Captain Phillips is the rarest
of thrillers, the kind that relies on neither distracting special
effects nor circumspect character development. Driven by a powerful,
soul-baring performance by the inimitable Tom Hanks, the movie never
lags, never oversells the plight of its characters, never reduces
anyone or anything to mere caricature.Hanks is the titular captain of the United States container ship MV
Maersk Alabama, cruising along the coast of Somalia with a full load
and heading toward the horn of Africa. Two skiffloads of armed Somalis
close in, ready to board the vessel. They're pirates, working for a
warlord in their impoverished country, and they smell opportunity.If this were a standard action flick, we might see the heroism of
Phillips and his motley crew as they fight the evil pirates and save
the world. It's not so here. There are nuances afoot; for once, we get
the perspective of the lead pirate (Barkhad Abdi) without falling into
the easy trap of feeling empathy toward him. The pirates board the giant ship, clearly pleased with their find. Muse
(Abdi) quickly proves himself to be a strong, humanistic leader; he's
single minded (where's the crew? where's the goods?) but not sinister.
His gang includes a strong man with a quick temper and Muse's own
relative, who'd begged to come along on the mission - a mission that,
when successful, would go a long way to improving their lives. The movie is told in two distinct halves: the time spent by the pirates
on the Maersk as they search in vain for treasure and crew, and the
time spent in the ship's lifeboat as they make their way to Somalia.
The villains are conflicted and desperate. And armed. But they're
quickly immersed in an impossible situation. This is one of the toughest, most naked performances of Hanks' stellar
career. It's sometimes painful and heart wrenching to watch. He's an
Everyman, per usual, but he's not also a savior or a hero. He doesn't
suddenly develop super strength and overpower the bad guys. He's just a
guy in charge of a boat and its passengers. Matching him wit for wit while frantically trying to keep his own wits
about him is Abdi as the skinny, intelligent Muse, seemingly a veteran
of high piracy (though not against huge container ships). Abdi is a
wonder to watch; unpredictable and cunning but a little greedy and
rapidly running out of viable options. Truly a talent to look out for,
Abdi nails this role.The ending is predictable only in the most general sense. Bill Ray's
screenplay does not duck some plausible consequences to the actions of
each main player and leaves us with a scene that is as emotionally
overpowering as anything in Hanks' previous Philadelphia. It seems that every time Tom Hanks makes a good movie, people begin to
label it as "Oscar bait," as if the movie were created just as a
vehicle to earn an award. Captain Phillips delivers a tight,
action-packed story fraught with none of the usual missteps of the
genre, and if it is indeed rewarded with the highest of honors, it will
be well deserved.
