2
Offensive, Sloppy and Heartless

Pitch Perfect is certainly a wildly popular movie, that came highly
recommended by countless friends and family. I had no idea what it was
about beyond 'singing,' so I fired up the DVD player at Château
Pulpitel, and eagerly awaited the many laughs I was assured this film
would provide.Now they never really came. This film is as best I can gather, 'Glee:
The Movie' with the basic plot elements of your 'Bring it On' style
films. So if you love any of that stuff, stop reading now and go watch
it. You'll love this film so you needn't bother about my opinions.Okay, it's just us now, right?Where this movie falls apart is in two aspects; firstly its complete
disinterest in logic pertaining even to its own universe, and more
worryingly, it has an offensive attitude that is nothing short of
racist, sexist and more suited to your standard right wing attitude in
its portrayal of non-Caucasians, Jewish people, people with eating
disorders and women in general. This movie doesn't care about what happened before, or why something is
happening now. It's one big Deus ex machina from beginning to end. Why
did Ben Platt's' character Benji, turn up as stage manager at the
regional sing off event? Everyone else had to drive on the bus to get
there. Where was he? Why was he a stage manager at another university,
when he is a freshman amateur magician? Why was it that the best way to
get rid of Adam Devine's' character Bumper was to have a hastily
created scene with him immediately leaving to work with John Mayer-
negating any interest in his relationship with Rebel Wilsons'
appallingly offensive and unfunny Big Amy character? Why does no one
EVER study? THey don't even carry books, or pens, or seem to talk about
their subjects! This movie shows us countless avenues of interest and
then never refer to them again. It sets up characters and dumps them
never to be seen again. We are shown four acapella groups, one of which
NEVER does anything, at all! Why bother with all of these settings if
you never refer to it again? Because no one cared that much, would be
my guess.More shamefully however, is the constant prejudicial attitudes
displayed in this film. This movie attempts to be funny by being
daring, and outrageous. So we get not one, but two Asian characters who
are simply awful stereotypes. One is a racist angry dorm- mate with the
main protagonist, who manages to be an unlikeable bitchy Asian
stereotype. The other is a 'crazy Asian' stereotype, who is a
pyromaniac who rolls around in vomit. You know, because Asians can't be
complex and meaningful. They are either bitchy nerds of perverts. We
aren't allowed to hear non-white characters speak too much either- our
token black character gets around 4 lines (you can't count the singing,
because its all clearly auto tuned and added in post) but gets to be a
problem gambling lesbian. But there's no motivation given, no
reasoning. And after the moment of confession, NO ONE CARES. Maybe it's
because she is black? The script writers were right to think that you
can do great joke about racist stereotypes, but they missed the concept
that you make fun of the behaviour and attitudes of racism, and expose
the ridiculousness of it. What they do here is reinforce stereotypes,
which should not be amusing for empathetic, caring members of the human
race. But we plough deeper into this morass, with obesity, bulimia and
deafness copping a serve. I strongly feel that no subject is off limits
for humour, but you need to be funny. Making fun of Deaf Jews, Lesbians
and Asians is not the same as being funny.I found this to be a fairly heartless film, where morality and heart
are irrelevances, and not one that I could recommend to others. This is
not what comedy should be, if we're a truly civilised people.
