2
Depressing, oppressive, completely unfunny experience

I tried to make a list of movies which I laughed at less than
Universal's newest release, "The Five-Year Engagement," and could only
think of two: "Observe and Report" and "The Passion Of the Christ."Films I found much funnier include, "The Love Guru," "Duece Bigalow:
American Gigalo," "All About Steve" and "Platoon." That does not
surprise, however, since this picture was directed by Nicholas Stoller
(who has helmed two of the worst "comedies" of all-time, "Get Him To
the Greek" and "Forgetting Sarah Marshall").With a cast that features Jason Segel ("The Muppets," "Forgetting Sarah
Marshall," "How I Met Your Mother" TV series, who also co-wrote with
Stoller), Emily Blunt ("Salmon Fishing In the Yemen," "The Devil Wears
Prada"), Chris Pratt ("Moneyball," "Parks and Recreation" TV series),
Alison Brie ("Scream 4," "Mad Men" TV series) and David Paymer ("Quiz
Show," an Academy Award nominee for "Mr. Saturday Night"), there is -
sadly - not one funny moment or humorous situation.And, at two-plus hours, this monstrosity drags like a bloated beached
grey whale, with no pacing, direction or intriguing plot line to hold
any interest whatsoever.The story has sous chef, Tom Solomon (Segel), meeting Violet Barnes
(Blunt) at a "super hero" costume party in San Francisco. He's a pink
bunny and she's Princess Diana (for SOME reason). A year later, he
proposes, but a series of contrived events take place to postpone the
nuptials.She then gets a job in the psychology department at the University of
Michigan, so he gives up his job to travel to Ann Arbor with her. While
there, she meets another group of depressing, humor-impaired
colleagues, including Kevin Hart ("Fool's Gold" - notice the pattern
here of these actors appearing in terrible comedies?), Mindy Kaling
("The Office" TV series) and Randall Park ("Larry Crowne").Meanwhile, he struggles to find work, finally getting a job making
sandwiches at a greasy spoon diner. As she rises in the eyes of her
professor, the irritating Brit Winton Childs (Rhys Ifans, "Nanny McPhee
Returns" *sigh*), Tom turns into Grizzly Adams, growing a ridiculous
beard, making his own mead and killing his own food.The film then lurches from "cerebreal" comedy to a romantic drama as
the two fall out, have short flings with other people (Tom is smeared
with potato salad and nearly raped by a co-worker) and separate.Then just as quickly, the movies introduces some wild slapstick in
which Violet gets shot with an arrow and slammed with a car door; while
Tom wanders out on a freezing night, suffers frostbite and loses a toe
(this is supposed to be laugh-inducing?!). Other "hilarious" moments in
this enterprise are supposed to be the funerals of various grandparents
who died waiting for this marriage to take place. Pardon my belly
laughs.While Violet moves in with Winton, Tom begins dating a younger woman
who seems to be insatiable in bed. In fact, the soft-core porn scenes
here are so monotonous (showing intercourse from ever possible angle
while she screams, "Faster Tom, faster!") that the sex becomes
unbelievably annoying and makes one wish for the passion and lucidity
of a 1970s porno flick.What will happen to the star-crossed lovers? If you're like me, you
will not care one bit, since all they seem to do is bicker and have
absolutely no chemistry, anyway. There also is not one likable or even
redeeming character here. Even Tom's best friend, Alex (Pratt), and Violet's sister, Suzi (Brie),
who hook up after she is impregnated on a one-night stand, are so
shallow and badly-written as to induce a malaise of immense proportion.And Segel, who helped bring the Muppets back to the big screen (an
effort I have praised), is the worst culprit of all, as his Tom is
basically one of the biggest jerks in recent comedy history, yet
despite his aggressive repulsiveness, Violet cries (several times
during the proceedings), "I love you, so much, I love you so much."Love is an emotion few will feel about "The Five-Year Engagement,"
which is about the length of time one will believe they have actually
spent watching this claptrap.
