7
how do we choose who chooses?

Greetings again from the darkness. The "right" choice isn't always
obvious. Things get more complicated when even the "best" choice isn't
clear. Place a young child at the heart of that decision tree, and the
result may yield emotional turmoil and an abundance of moral high
ground and judgment. Such best intentions are at the core of this
latest from director Marc Webb (his first feature since 500 Days of
Summer) and writer Tom Flynn.Frank (Chris Evans) is raising his 10 year old child prodigy niece Mary
(Mckenna Grace) in low-key small town Florida. The circumstances that
brought the two of them together aren't initially known, but are
explained in a poignant moment later in the film. Frank has been
home-schooling Mary and now believes it's time she transitions to
public school for the socialization aspect … "try being a kid for once"
he urges. Of course, Mary's teacher Bonnie (Jenny Slate, Obvious Child)
immediately realizes Mary is special, and just like that, the wheels of
the educational system are in motion to explain to Frank why they know
what's best for Mary … a high-fallutin private school where she can be
all she can be.There is a really nice and enjoyable story here of Uncle Frank
dedicated to doing what he thinks is best for bright and charming and
spirited young Mary, but it all comes crashing down when the
bureaucrats, and ultimately Frank's mother (Lindsay Duncan), get
involved. When the adults can't agree on the best route for Mary, a
courtroom battle ensues. Ms. Duncan gets a witness scene reminiscent of
Jack Nicholson in A Few Good Men, and her overall performance stands in
effective stark contrast to the warm fuzzies of Mr. Evans.The supporting cast contributes nicely, though Octavia Spencer's role
as kindly neighbor Roberta is more limited than it should be, and the
love connection between Evans and Ms. Slate could have easily been
omitted - but she is so pleasant on screen, that we don't mind at all.
Glenn Plummer and John Finn are the attorneys who go to war, and Fred
the one-eyed cat also gets plenty of screen time. But there is little
doubt that the movie really belongs to the effervescent Miss Grace. She
nails the back and forth between kid and genius, and we never doubt her
sincerity.Child prodigies have been explored through other fine movies such as
Little Man Tate, Searching for Bobby Fisher, and Shine, and while this
one may run a bit heavier on melodrama, but it's worthy of that group.
The best discussions after this movie would revolve around what's best
for the child. Should she be deprived of "higher" education in order to
live within a more "normal" social environment? Are any of the adults
more interested in their own ego than in what's in the child's best
interest? Home school vs public school vs private school is always good
for some fireworks, and everyone has their own thoughts. So how do we
decide who gets to decide? Does a parent get the final say on their
child – even if their motivations may be in doubt? Should every kid be
pushed to their academic – or artistic – or athletic – limits? The
questions are many and the answers are complicated. There is a great
line in the film that itself is worthy of conversation: "You got on the
bad side of a small-minded person with authority". Yikes. Even Cat
Stevens' great song "The Wind" can't soften that.
