1
Quote from Billy Madison " We are all dumber for having heard it!"

The first thing that strikes me about this movie is, why does it look
SO bad? Is it the feel or style they are going for? I dunno, it just
looks bad. Maybe they are trying to Vaseline screen the aging stars,
who are all in great shape by the way, or are they saving on film? Do
they even use film anymore? SPOILER ALERT Virtually every action scene
here is over the top and totally unbelievable except for a short scene
with Jet Li. The initial escape scene makes NO SENSE! Sly gets shot
while going down a seemingly infinite zip line? Statham's got his back
so he stays behind while they are surround and the rest of the team
continues the escape on the water high speed style. Out of nowhere Sly
and Jason are rescued by fledgling team member snipers them out of the
situation. Sly grunts "Time for plan b" back to the water chase. Jet
skis, for no apparent reason appear from nowhere and the team abandons
the boat. Just when all is lost, Stallone and Statham zoom overhead in
the plane they arrived in. How is this plan b? Wouldn't the boats and
jet ski's be plan b. Jet skis shoot into the ramp of the plane as the
plane struggles get get enough lift to take off before they crash into
a huge damn. Hey, since we are having trouble gaining altitude, let's
head for the HIGHEST POINT on the dam! Most of the action scenes pretty
much follow this level of nonsense. Oh well, maybe the writing is good?
Nope! Back story for the newbie team member to make us care about him
when he gets killed pretty much goes like this, "So, how did you get
into this line of work?" " I was in Afganistan for three years when my
platoon got trapped in the oil zone. By the time we got out, four of my
friends were dead. When I got back to base, they had shot the dog I was
taking care of, so, I'd had enough killing for the day"! That's it?
That's the best the writes of this mega budget could come up with? Also
to the character, since you had enough killing you decided to become a
mercenary where you would kill people all day! Speaking of death, I
read a stunt man died making this POS. people die everyday, on the
subway, in their sleep, lots o reasons, but honestly, I can't think of
a bigger waste of life than to die for this movie.
