8
Chix Chat on Film Review: Not your typical teenage angst tale.

The Perksas it were, was a bit of a marvel when discussing what
teenagers have to contend with. Anyone that decides to see this film
expecting a run of the mill high school drama or teenage angst tale
will be pleasantly surprised at the depth with which this story delves.
This adaptation of Stephen Chbosky's novel seemed to take the
difficulties facing one young man embarking on his high school journey
through one extreme situation after another. I could visualize a
totally different version of this tale of misfit toys being played out
where all is right with the world and Charlie (Logan Lerman) is the
most popular freshman in school for the simple fact that all his
friends are seniors. The immediate infatuation that Charlie had with
Sam (Emma Watson) was no surprise, what did surprise me was the
challenges that she and her step brother Patrick/Nothing (Ezra Miller)
had to endure. Even I started to get annoyed as the school year
progressed and the running 'Nothing' joke persisted. It's always
surprising when a story focuses on well to do young people whose lives
would be expected to mimic a fairytale. This story gives insight into
the fact that some young people have the same if not even more
struggles than others and having money can't really fix that. I found
it interesting that there was no clear indication in the story as to
the school year, even at graduation there was none of the typical
'Class of '92' or whatever to show how proud of their time graduates
are. It may be that Mr. Chbosky wanted to steer clear of associating
the story with a specific year, but it was obviously the early 90's
when the primary mode of sharing and exchanging music was via cassette.
I recall so very clearly the good old days when the 'mix tape' ruled. I
have to say that I liked Emma Watson as an American teenager, she can
cross the pond and put it down any time. Yes there were a few moments
in her dialog that she sounded like Hermione, but this role did a great
deal to paint her in a different and mature light. I am not drawn to
tales of the human condition unless there is a deep truth to be gleaned
from the story, so if I had to say the moral of the story is It would
be 'you gotta have friends'. This story worked because of what the
three key characters gained from getting to know each other. I give it
a green light.
