6
Absolutely fine.......

Aliens who travel from planet to planet to see what kind of species
inhabit them, come to Earth. And if the inhabitants are decent, they
are welcomed to be their friend. If not, the planet is destroyed..............To find, out they choose one person and give them the power to do
whatever they want. They choose Neil, a teacher who is constantly being belittled by the
headmaster and is attracted to his neighbour, but doesn't have the
courage to approach her. But all that should now change.........Aside from the debacle that was Burke and Hare, Pegg never really puts
a foot wrong when it comes to choosing his roles, and even though this
is just a throwaway piece of fluff, the British Bruce Almighty if you
would, there is enough going on in such a short amount of time to
forgive the films main shortcoming.......Rob Riggle.His character is from a totally different film and has no business
being here. He has nothing in common with any of the other characters,
and appears to try to upstage everyone on screen by being just too over
the top. He ruins the film with every scene with which he's involved,
and nearly ruins the flow of the film.Other than him, it's pretty pleasant stuff. Pegg can do the Everyman
with his eyes shut, and he's such a vibrant, happy presence on screen,
you never fear for his character or his shortcomings, because the man
is just too endearing.But because the film has so many characters, a lot of people are
sidelined in way of being a punchline. Izzard is the biggest victim
here, his motivation here is from being totally abhorrent toward Neil,
to being his best friend. He's in the film for literally three scenes,
and he's probably only doing it because He's such good friends with the
Pythons.And speaking of the Pythons, they just appear to be going through the
motions, doing a favour for Jones, and appearing in voice only. For
nostalgia though, it's essential for the Python completest.Williams rounds up the legends here as the voice of Dennis, and
unfortunately it's not his finest hour. Again, just lend in his voice
to the proceedings. But again, the man puts so much energy and life
into his work, it's still brings that Williams touch to such a short
role.It would have worked better as a thirty minute sitcom starring someone
like Simon Bird, but it would have gone the way of My Hero and ended up
as stale as last months bread.But it's a high concept British movie, and these are very rare, and
although it wasn't the most well received film this year, one thinks it
will become a cult film in years to come, standing proud with the limes
of Morons From Outer Space, and I Bought A Vampire Motorcycle.Which is a compliment, honestly.Worth watching.
