7
Gripping and thought-provoking in equal measure, 'The Gift' is a well-crafted psychological thriller that also marks a fine filmmaking debut for Joel Edgerton

'The Gift' is ostensibly about an upper middle-class married couple –
Simon (Jason Bateman) and Robyn (Rebecca Hall) – who are terrorised by
a ex-classmate of Simon's named Gordo (Joel Edgerton) looking to settle
an old score after their move from Chicago back to the former's Los
Angeles' East Side neighbourhood. And yet, Edgerton, who also wrote the
screenplay, is not just content for his psychological thriller to be
just another B-grade exercise; instead, there are more than a few nasty
surprises in store for an audience jaded by such run-of-the-mill genre
fare, and it is Edgerton's emphasis on character rather than empty
shlock that ultimately pays off in a slow-burn but nevertheless
consistently gripping mystery.As is typical with such narratives, Simon and Robyn start off as the
picture of marital bliss who are looking to move on from an episode in
the recent past. Simon is starting a new job at a high-profile digital
security firm, and Robyn hopes to get back to her passion as a
freelance designer – but the cracks are there, especially the relics of
a miscarriage. Following a seemingly serendipitous run-at a downtown
furniture store, Gordo leaves a housewarming gift at their doorstep, a
generosity that Robyn feels obligated to repay by inviting him over for
dinner. Thing is, the gifts keep coming, and while Robyn responds by
letting him in out of politeness, Simon is slightly more wary of their
overly hospitable guest. His displeasure comes to a head after Gordo
makes a hasty and prolonged exit no sooner after they arrive at a
surprisingly posh two-storey house upon the latter's dinner invitation.Upon a stern warning to leave them alone, strange things start
happening around the house. Robyn gets the nagging sense that Gordo is
watching her in the day when she is alone at home, and even starts
hallucinating that he is peeping at her in the shower. The
disappearance of their family dog one day further cements Simon's
suspicion that Gordo hasn't taken too kindly to his admonition. And yet
throughout the ensuing unease, Gordo never does appear in person –
except in Robyn's daydreams – leaving us wondering if it is all a red
herring. Then a letter in Gordo's signature red envelope lands in their
mailbox, with a cryptic send-off to Simon to "let bygones be bygones".
Simon downplays its significance, but Robyn is convinced that Simon is
hiding something.Whereas the first act was about Gordo playing the typical psycho
stalker, Edgerton reserves the second act for unravelling just who
Simon is – and as you may expect, the answers are less than savoury.
Peeling back the affable charm on Simon's surface, we are led to
discover someone else altogether, so much so that we are forced to
re-examine our sympathies for the man in the first place, and by
extension, our contempt for Gordo's apparent sociopathic behaviour.
Edgerton tells the story from Robyn's perspective, not only because she
is as much in the dark about the man she married as us, but also for
the fact that, as Simon's façade falls apart, she alone becomes the
emotional core of the story and the only one we end up rooting for.Although Robyn's neighbour and Simon's colleagues do pop up for a
couple of scenes here and there, this is pretty much a story that
stands on just three characters, and Edgerton brings Gordo back in the
last act to extract payback from the person whose arrogance and apathy
many years ago had set his life on an irreversible downward spiral.
There is a sharp lesson here on lies, misdirections and their
consequences, and instead of settling for a comfortable ending,
Edgerton opts for something much more unnerving that keeps you guessing
just what Gordo's motive is all this while. At no point does he settle
for conventional thrills, so those expecting a mano- a-mano between
Simon and Gordo are bound to be disappointed.Yet those looking for a fine actors' showcase will be pleasantly
surprised, for Edgerton gives plenty of room for each one of his actors
to shine – including, we may add, himself. Bateman subverts his
Everyman likability as he transforms from a nice guy to a sinister
bully that has no qualms ruining other people's lives, and the actor
better known for his comedic roles turns in a fine dramatic performance
with heft and gravitas. Hall is his perfect complement, playing the
part of the kind and vulnerable wife with watchful intelligence and
quiet empathy. Edgerton is in great form himself as the creepy loner
sociopath, who earns our disgust and pity in equal measure as we
discover how much of a sad sack he is and what led him there in the
first place.To use its very own metaphor, 'The Gift' is like a present within a
present whose pleasure lies not just in finding out what it truly is
but also in the process of unveiling it layer after layer. That may
come off as a drag for less patient audiences or those looking for
late-night cable movie thrills, but those willing to accept a slow-
burn psychological thriller that unfolds at its own measured pace will
find much to like about this well-crafted and well-acted package. It is
as assured and auspicious a debut for a first-time filmmaker as any,
and Edgerton proves to be both smart and savvy as actor-writer-
director in getting the best out of his actors as much as getting under
his audience's skin.
