9
I don't see what everyone's problem is

I don't know what people were expecting. I hadn't read the books before
seeing the movie and I am assuming that maybe this was a good thing. I
enjoyed the film. I do not agree with the lack of chemistry either.
There was a weird chemistry which I believe made sense because of the
unusual relationship. He is an odd character and she is intimidated and
is also very innocent therefore it isn't going to be the usual sexual
chemistry that you would find in a romantic film. A lot of people have
said there was not enough sex or it was not raunchy enough. Firstly, if
there were any more sex scenes it would have got quite boring, and
instead we got to see a bit of a story line. Also there is only so much
that they can show in a film, surely? What were people expecting? Also
one final point in relation to the comments I have seen regarding the
film giving S&M a bad name; I don't agree. This is a specific story
about one guy who is into specific things and goes about things a
particular way. It was all consensual (and it is made clear that it
must be). The whole point of the story is that Christian Grey's sexual
desires are confusing for Anatasia to understand and that the
relationship is quite complicated due to their mutual feelings for each
other. I have also seen comments that this film is sexist and degrades
women. This film does not promote that at all it merely shows a story
of someone who practises in S&M and in this instance the man is the
dominant. She has a choice as to whether she wants to engage in this
and the film does not say "this is okay" and "woman should do this".
The character was not forced to do anything. I do not get why people
feel the need to accuse films of implying or portraying such things.Obviously this film is not perfect and there are things that could have
been better but I enjoyed this film and personally would recommend it
to others. I can get quite bored in films but I was not bored at all, I
have paid more to see films that are A LOT worse than this.
