7
Messy and overstuffed, but crackling with life, energy and colour.

Many things could have gone wrong with The Book Of Life. This
boisterous, big-hearted animated film is bursting with ideas and
colour, stuffed to the brim with - one suspects - pretty much every
idea that struck writer-director Jorge Gutierrez's fancy. Indeed, the
final film plays very much like the charming but unpolished debut of a
filmmaker who can't quite believe he was lucky enough to get the
attention of producer Guillermo del Toro, and has no intention of
wasting the opportunity in case it never comes around again. As a
result, The Book Of Life practically trembles with too many ideas and
influences, but remains so earnest and inventive that it's easy to
forgive its predictable, overstuffed plot.In a small Mexican town on the Day Of The Dead, we meet the
protagonists of the story: steadfast, earnest Manolo (voiced by Diego
Luna), who would rather strum a guitar than fight a bull in the
tradition of his forefathers; brash, adventurous Joaquin (Channing
Tatum), who becomes the town hero in trying to avenge the murder of his
father by bandits; and spunky, intelligent Maria (Zoe Saldana),
daughter of the mayor who inevitably wins the hearts of both young men.
The stakes, however, are higher than they could ever imagine: the two
godly rulers of the underworld, La Muerte (Kate del Castillo) and
Xibalba (Ron Perlman), have gambled dominion over each other's lands on
the outcome of the love triangle.It would be an understatement to say that there's a lot going on in The
Book Of Life. The film covers everything from a mystical medal that
lends invulnerability to anyone who wears it, to a tantalising
love-hate relationship between the two gods, while spiced up with
musical interludes galore. (It's not often that the film's hero will
pause to belt out a soul-searching rendition of Radiohead's Creep, but
that kind of thing happens all the time in The Book Of Life.) Mix it
all up with retellings of Mexican folklore, including visits to the
joyously colourful Land of the Remembered and the ghostly grey Land of
the Forgotten, and the film can be a somewhat frenetic viewing
experience, to say the least.But, for all that Gutierrez packs his film full of ideas and details,
he also manages to make most of it work very well. The love triangle
may be trite, but there's nevertheless enough heart and humour holding
Manolo, Maria and Joaquin together. Manolo's relationships with his dad
Carlos (Hector Elizondo) and his departed mom Carmen (Ana de la
Reguera) are coloured in with surprising depth as well. It's also
wonderful to see a love triangle centred around a girl who knows her
own mind - and rest assured that Maria speaks it often enough to make a
real impact.The Book Of Life also doubles as a very welcome riot of imagination and
tradition. Every frame of the film is beautifully and thoughtfully
designed, down to the fact that Manolo seems to have been intricately
crafted out of wood. Moreover, instead of shying away from its Mexican
roots to increase its global marketability, the film firmly embraces
them. This gives Gutierrez room to craft some delicately dark moments
in a graveyard or two, reminding everyone that those who have died can
still live as long as they're remembered by the ones who loved them.
And yet, the film never descends into darkness, instead tapping into
the giddying energy of a fiesta - most memorably in a journey through
the Land of the Remembered - complete with heady bursts of colour and
music.There's no denying that Gutierrez's film can occasionally be too much
to handle. It's loud and almost cheerfully silly, tossing pop songs and
Mexican folklore into a mix that sometimes doesn't work. But, at its
best, The Book Of Life is like a rambunctious puppy: messy, loud and
insistent, but radiating so much life and charm that it becomes quite
impossible to resist.
