7
A solid drama documentary of the Iranian Siege of 1980

The Iranian embassy siege was something I remember well, played out as
it was on live television and being a huge fan of the docu-drama genre
I anticipated this film most eagerly. First of all it was a right
mission to get to see it at all and I expected it to have a much wider
UK release. There was also confusing and conflicting information over
the exact cinema release date given over the internet (First the 4th of
August, then the 18th, then the 4th again!) Seeing it at the cinema
resulted in me having to travel half the country!For those who don't know the story, in April of 1980 the Iranian
embassy was stormed by six armed men demanding the release of hostages
in Iran over the mistreatment of their tribe by the Persians in Iran,
but the UK had poor relations with Iran at the time and Iran was not
going to give them anything. The UK was on it's own and for the first
time in Television history, the actions of the largely anonymous
Special Air Service, would be seen live for all to see. The film is basically told from four main perspectives. An always
excellent Mark Strong is hostage Negotiator, Max Vernon, a man acutely
aware that lives are literally in his hands, and the emotional impact
this has on him is one of the stronger aspects of the film and Strongs
scenes are all appropriately gripping. Secondly is that of the SAS with
Jamie Bell, in a very different role, playing Rusty Firmin, one of the
soldiers leading the assault. Bell shows he has left the legacy of
Billy Elliot well and truly behind him and is superb in this role.
Tension notches up appropriately as he and his team ready themselves to
go in. Thirdly is the insight into the upper echelons of the political
discussions which went on between Billy Whitelaw (Tim Piggot-Smith in
what may well have been his final role) as the options are raked over
with an unseen Margaret Thatcher sending down her stance on terrorism.
Ronan Vibert is noteworthy as the head of MI6 while Robert Portal plays
SAS Colonel Mike Rose with the appropriate level of staunch
professionalism while Martin Shaw adds gravitas to the proceedings
though he is given very little to say or do.Those inside the Embassy, both hostages and terrorists are fairly
thinly drawn with the exception of the terrorist leader, Salim (A great
performance from Ben Turner) and most of our insights into their
interactions come via the other characters mentioned above. There is
little attempt to humanise the Iranian hostages, we know nothing for
example, about the one who is executed, so when this happens, we, the
audience, feel little emotional loss. PC Trevor Locke stands out a
little as he is given more to do, but just a few more lines of dialogue
would have enabled us to emotionally connect with the hostages from the
outset. The fourth strand of the narrative is that of reporter Kate Adie and
her cameraman, as they vie for the best shot over the reporter from a
different rag (Either The Sun or The Mail, it wasn't clear to me) - I
remember Kate Adie well from this reporting and felt Abbie Cornish was
a little miscast in this role. She felt too glamorous with not a hair
out of place and way too much makeup. This story line added very little
to film. She spots the SAS leaving to train at one point and indicates
she suspects more is afoot, but never vocalises her suspicions, so
little is made of this. The interaction between her and the rival
reporter could have been the cornerstone of lighter moments in this
serious drama but they're lost and forgotten. This was the weakest
element for me.The siege unfolds over six days and it is the relationship between Mark
Strong's character and terrorist leader Salim that is the most
captivating. Overall the film is paced well and Toa Fraser does an admirable job of
handling the multiple characters and story lines, but the film starting
as it does with the Embassy being taken, we have no time to get to know
any of the hostages or feel a connection to them. A ten- minute
sequence at the beginning of the film giving us an introduction to
these characters would have made the emotional stakes a little higher
for the viewer. BBC Sound Recordist Sim Harris is given little to say
or do, so there is little context of who he is and the moment where he
goes out onto the window ledge (An image scorched into the memory of
all who saw it live on television) is not as dramatic and meaningful as
it could have been. The film side steps a few of the more controversial aspects of the
raid. The terrorist who was captured was almost executed by the SAS out
the back before they realised they were being filmed by the television
station. I found the unobtrusive score lacked a dramatic emphasis at
the appropriate moments and made it essentially underwhelming.Overall, however, this is a solidly made drama with good performances
and a suitable dour colour palette matching the setting of the 1980s
and it shameful that such a drama, covering as it did, a flash point in
UK history, did not receive a wider release. I would, despite my
reservations, still recommend it.
