1
i wish i could give this movie 0 stars

let me just start out by saying I NEVER, EVER write movie reviews but I
made an account on here just to write a review on this, THAT is how bad
it is. I had been meaning to watch this movie for a while and it had
been sitting on my Netflix queue, so one night when I couldn't sleep I
turned it on at about 4 in the morning, which is what I contribute to
why I didn't turn it off after 5 minutes of it. First off, our "protagonist" is a one-dimensional idiot that we are
given no backstory on, besides the basic "my brother has cancer, it's
just us, oh no" description. After watching about 10 minutes of this,
you could tell exactly where the plot was going, but somehow felt
compelled to watch it crash and burn. Iris, our lovely, boring
protagonist, is invited to a philanthropist's dinner party, where cash
is promised to the winner of a simple parlor game. Now this is where we get to the "horror" of it all. First off, I know
when you go into a cheesy horror movie like this you are going to see
people die in ways that shouldn't kill a person, but this was just
unbelievable. Some lady died by getting stabbed in the leg, while
someone else survived after getting stabbed in the lung? Not to mention
people dying from getting whipped just a couple times, as well as being
submerged in water for less than two minutes at most, it was just
unconvincing. Besides the unrealistic aspects of it all, all the characters were flat
and boring, with no backstories so we couldn't care less if they lived
or died, and of course there were the stereotypical "we gotta be a
team" and "I don't come here to make friends" people. Also while on the
subject of bad and rather useless actors, the role of both the doctor
and the philanthropist's son were completely useless and had about 5
minutes screen time combined; I am still trying to figure out why these
characters were introduced in the first place. There was also a useless
rape scene which was just concerning to why it was put in there in the
first place, as it served absolutely no purpose and made zero sense. The characters also were just all over the place, with the main
character supposedly this nice, sweet vegetarian who ends up shooting
this guy who she didn't even want to stab? Also we were given scattered
descriptions of each "background" character, with, oddly enough, more
information about the ones with no screen time and no information about
the ones that mattered the most.The ending was the part that really just got me. First of all, what
really annoyed me was after getting stabbed in the lung, or presumably
some other organ, our idiot protagonist Iris neglects going to visit a
doctor or even trying to alert any authorities about this at all (it
still boggles me that somehow we're supposed to believe that just no
one has ever tried to stop this or tell the police that this insane
billionaire is killing people in his mansion, also how are they
disposing of all these bodies every year??? like isn't someone
somewhere like maybe we should check up on them they throw away a lot
of human sized containers every year around the EXACT SAME TIME and a
bunch of people go to that house, but only ONE person leaves???? but
that's a whole other matter). She proceeds to shower up and pretend
nothing ever happened, and then OH MY GOD. I just knew that her brother
was going to kill himself, and that's the part that really makes me
angry. After sitting through an entire movie of clichés and over-used
plot devices I was just hoping I could enjoy my happy ending and go to
bed, but no they had to kill off the cancer kid because 8 deaths wasn't
enough in this movie. All in all, this movie has destroyed me as a person and individual and
I don't think I am going to be able to trust movies on Netflix for at
least a month. The whole world has let me down with this one,
especially you, Brittany Snow.
