10
Autistic Reviewers Opinion Of This Movie.

War films can be a bit hard to sit through, with its graphic depictions
of key battles in history, strong themes of power, brotherhood and the
effect it has among the world but with Mel Gibson's latest war drama
'Hacksaw Ridge' it manages to be something more that we can grasp it.The true life story of Desmond Doss is finally brought to the big
screen, Doss was a US Army medic who served during WWII, but coming
from a family with a strong religious beliefs and a father that
struggled with the aftermath of WWI (a veteran himself) it lead him to
be a Seventh-day Adventist, refusing to bare a firearm and the use of
violence against another. His personal choice would affect his
country's army and persuaded a court hearing to charge Doss for his
personal beliefs and objection to bare arms but despite this, he is
given the chance though to fight alongside his 'brothers' in the Battle
of Okinawa, a battle which the American forces fought against the
invading Japanese in an intense and brutal battle. It is here in this
key battle that Doss was recognised as a true hero for his country, as
he managed to rescue the lives of 75 soldiers wounded in battle.Gibson returns to the director's chair to helm this true story, giving
his touch of humanistic quality, anti-war themes and brutality to the
horrors of war to much great detail. The direction is pretty much on
point throughout and never goes dull or loses itself during the 2 ½
running time. The first half of the film is about character and what
establishes Doss to become a legend that he is known for, while the 2nd
half of the film focuses on his role during the Battle of Okinawa and
the brutal battle itself. The violence here is given so much detail,
not holding back on the horrors of war and the devastating effect it
carried on both sides. The production design, sound mixing, editing and
scale of the battle is as intense, horrifying and respectful to the
details and real life experiences to what we've read in history books,
but it is yet filmed with beautiful and yet brutal detailing that
echoes much to Saving Private Ryan's D-Day battle sequence. The 2nd
half of the film is much darker than the first half and people will
need a strong stomach to handle the graphic depictions of violence and
deaths we see throughout, but it does get emotional at times and in the
last few minutes of the film, though overall the film is emotional with
Doss's back-story, his personal lifestyle and the brotherhood that Doss
and his army experience and share on the battlefield.In terms of acting, the cast as a whole is incredible with Andrew
Garfield, Hugo Weaving, Vince Vaughn, Luke Bracey and Teresa Palmer
giving the best key performances of the film. Garfield has come a long
way to prove himself as a worthy actor, breaking away from his well
known role as Spider-Man prior to HR. To describe his role as Doss, he
gives a quality that defines him as a simple man with values in his
life while facing a few struggles that form his belief of not bearing
violence or firearms. Garfield must have given much study and
preparation for the role, as his character's journey from a wise simple
man to a hero of his army is given so much heart, emotion and bravery
to make the journey of Doss so believable.Overall, Hacksaw Ridge is a film that will leave audiences in state of
emotion that describes the horrors of war, the bravery of Doss and his
army and a sense of thankfulness to our past ancestors who had lived in
a time to fight for freedom and peace when the world was divided. An
incredible film that will indeed earn its amount for Oscar nominations
and wins in 2017 (possibly for Best Picture, Director, Actor,
Production Design, Music Score, Sound Mixing & Editing and Script)
alongside other film awards. A must see film if you have studied
history at school, have an interest in history or if you love a solid
war film that's true to its core. A masterpiece that will not be
forgotten so quickly or never will, we both highly recommend it.5/5 Autistic Reviewers
