5
Studying the various dynamics of love

"Your sister is a great writer, and it's because she is courageous in
life."Stuck in Love is one of those movies that is a bit difficult to review
because there is little positive or negative things I can say about it.
It is not great, but it is not bad either, it is just an average indie
rom-com that never managed to get me emotionally involved with the
characters. I was a bit disappointed because the trailer for this film
looked so good. It made me think this was going to be similar to The
Squid and the Whale since it dealt with writers and divorce; and it
could have been similar with the only difference that the kids in this
film were older. But the script wasn't nearly up to par with that film.
Stuck in Love lacked that slick and edgy humor. There were some
interesting moments thanks to a very likable and strong cast, but at
the end this film felt like another formulaic Hollywood rom-com with
everything fitting together too neatly during the final Thanksgiving
dinner scene. This is Josh Boone's directorial debut and he had an
impressive cast to work with, but ultimately his script was the weakest
link here. It wasn't a terrible film, it managed to capture the several
different dynamics of love through the very different characters and
their love interests, but it was all uninspiring at times and
predictable.The film introduces us to a modern day American family of writers, the
Borgens. William (Greg Kinnear) is a successful writer who has spent
the last 3 years of his life waiting for his ex-wife, Erica (Jennifer
Connelly) to return. She left him for a younger man, and he often
stalks her hoping she will one day come back to him. Their oldest
daughter, Samantha (Lily Collins) hasn't been able to forgive her for
it. She hasn't spoken with her mother and doesn't believe in love or
relationships. She is outgoing and likes to hook up with guys, but
avoids any kind of relationship because she knows how devastating
heartbreaks can be. She sees it every day in her father's moping face.
She has just finished writing her first novel and is getting it
published. Her younger brother, Rusty (Nat Wolff), is also an aspiring
writer who also happens to be a huge Stephen King fan. He isn't very
popular at school, but falls for the very beautiful and outgoing Kate
(Liana Liberato). She seems out of his league, but she is also looking
for someone different who could help her get out of trouble. Following
his father's advice, Rusty decides to take risks and experience more of
life and so he begins to pursue Kate. Samantha on the other hand is
being pursued by a helpless romantic named Lou (Logan Lerman) who
believes in true love and is also a writer. The film focuses on these
various family dynamics and how each relationship begins shaping their
lives.Greg Kinnear gives a strong performance as usual, playing the caring
father who can't seem to get over his ex-wife's abandonment. He hasn't
been able to write since and therefor can't move on with his life. He
has a casual relationship with his married neighbor played by Kristen
Bell, but the film really doesn't focus much on her character. Jennifer
Connelly doesn't have much screen time either as her major concern
deals with her trying to reestablish her relationship with her
estranged daughter. The central characters are actually the young kids
who surprised me with very strong performances. Lily Collins is very
likable in her role here and you can't help but root for her and her
love interest, Logan Lerman. They looked cute together. Collins plays
Jennifer Connelly's daughter here and it is surprising how much they
really lookalike. I had to check if they weren't actually related in
real life. Despite their great performances, I thought the true
standout here was Nat Wolff. He plays the insecure kid who is willing
to take risks in order to conquer the girl of his dreams. There are
some great moments in this film, but the uneven script cost this film
and ultimately it just felt like another forgettable Hollywood rom-com.
