6
Not 'that' bad

The truth is it isn't but there are caveats. Forgetting everything
else, if you take one look at the cover image used to portray this
movie, you should get a pretty good indication of what your letting
yourself in for. Unless you get dragged to it, or just wonder into the
cinema complex and randomly choose a film to watch, you can't really be
forgiven for having any lofty expectations on what your going too see.Baring all that in mind, it mostly delivers on exactly what it
promises, which is a slightly (or overly) ridiculous comedy about two
women that have the hot's (definitely not love) for the same guy. It's
simply a progression of dire events on this theme till conclusion where
they all live happily ever after, and actually it's done quite well
considering the plot they're working with.Unfortunately it wasn't really my kind of film but I still found it
moderately entertaining though somewhat cringe-worthy in certain
places. It's funny, but not hilarious. I did have a handful of 'laugh
out loud' moments which for me is always a good indication that the
writers are doing a half decent job. When watching films like this you
really have to keep things in context. Saying the
acting/directing/production is terrible because the film is silly, even
ridiculous, or just not 'you cup of tea' isn't always a fair assessment
or worse, an accurate one. Here, the acting is actually quite good. Our
main characters work well and produce pretty competent performances
with what they are working with. There is good on-screen chemistry
between them and at no point was I anything but utterly convinced I was
immersed in this truly dire situation with them (god help me). In fact
I'm probably being conservative when I say that the acting was just
'good'. The directing is also pretty good, as is production the comedic
value and pretty much all else.If you've gone to see something engaging with a well developed story
that you get drawn into and can reflect on I will forgive your
disappointment because this film isn't it. For the what its trying to
achieve and the audience I believe it's aimed at, I think this one does
quite well. I think it would be unfair of me to make a judgement on it
outside of these constraints so this is why I have given it the score I
have.I probably wouldn't go see it on my own, but it wasn't a waste of my
time doing so. I would recommend it though, because as a lighthearted
flick it's OK and I know there are those of us who like this kind of
film and would enjoy what this one has to offer.
