1
Wondering if you should watch this film?

Don't. Your time is far too valuable.This film features unsimulated sex of pornographic actors digitally
edited onto the parts of the real actors. So if you're looking for
smut, you should instead watch a production from the "Silicone Valley"
(or wherever it is the porn industry heads out of now). At least you
won't have to labor through pretentious dialogue just to see some real
action. It gets painful--the dialogue. There's a part in the movie
where Skarsgard's character tries to rationalize the protagonist's
nymphomania via the Fibonacci sequence. It really doesn't add anything
meaningful to the plot, it's just von Trier trying to convince you that
he went to college. No, I'm only half kidding. Read the spoiler.*SPOILER* Assuming you don't heed my warning, and still decide to waste
your time watching this film, then I won't won't give away too much,
but Skarsgard's dialogue is supposed to build you up so you can be
shocked by the, like, totally ironic ending of Vol. II...As if you
couldn't see that coming, or as if you'll even care at that point. Just
be glad it's over so you can go back to watching real porn ;) *END OF
SPOILER*And if you're looking for a film that debases contemporaries and
challenges social taboos, well...I guess you can say this film does
that, or at least attempts to. It's all pretty shallow, though, and
really comes off as an excuse to feature unsimulated sex in a movie
full of renowned actors. I would not feel so strongly about this if the
actors' performances weren't so laughable. I might have even forgiven
von Trier if the characters were redeeming or at least believable. For
start, LaBeouf's character speaks with an accent not of this world. And
Slater's performance as the aged father is comparable to a parody
straight out of SNL. Without giving away spoilers, I'll just say I
couldn't find one character I could sympathize/empathize with, because
they were either too dull, too deplorable, or too comical.Want to see a real art film? Un Chien Andalou, because this isn't art.
And from a contemporary film's standpoint, there's really nothing to
justify the extremes it has to reach in order to tell its story.Don't do it. Or do it, I don't care. I did my good deed for the day.
