2
Star Trek for the masses? More like Star Trek for morons.

Where do I start?I'm a huge fan of the original movies and I admit, I enjoyed the 2009
film. Why? Because the well got dry and it seemed there wasn't anywhere
left to go with the franchise. So, seeing as Abrams alluded to everyone
that by taking the franchise back to where it all began and altering
the time line, it was his intention to re-tell stories from the
original "series" and breathe new life into them. Naturally, I thought
he was talking about the original "TV series" from the 60's. Fine by
me, because the original TV series was cool, but it's pretty much
outdated.This latest movie has shown me that it's obvious he just wants to do
the "films" of the 80's and 90's all over again, but in his own image,
which is... an abundance of lens flares and people who are only good at
looking pretty on screen. And that, in my opinion, is not what Star
Trek is about. He even stated in an interview with Jon Stewart recently
on The Daily Show, that he never was a fan of Star Trek as a child
because he didn't get "the philosophy" of Star Trek. This movie is
proof that he still doesn't get it. If he wants to make flashy sci-fi
movies with no depth or substance, fine, there are plenty of scripts
out there for him to make this kind of bland movie that attracts
dimwitted people. So please Mr. Abrams, leave Star Trek alone, you are
only making it worse.Abrams might be trying to get "non-Trekkers" to enjoy the franchise,
but in order to do so, he is replacing everything that made Star Trek
what it was in the first place. I'd love for more people to get into
Star Trek, but not at the expense of my enjoyment of it. This movie has
nothing more to offer than Transformers did, snazzy special effects and
a story line riddled with plot holes and love/hate relationships
between the characters that seem forced and unauthentic.Which brings me to my next point. Orci, Kurtzman and Lindelof. Where
did these men learn to write? They use the technology of Star Trek only
to advance the plot or create tension when needed. For instance, a
transporter that the enemy uses can transport him light years to
another planet, but the transporters on the Enterprise have a hard job
locking onto a person on the planet they are orbiting, a hand-held
communicator that can call someone in a bar on Earth from the Klingon
home world light years away, infiltrating a top secret military base
with a shuttle craft without being spotted by sensors, and the list
goes on.The last part of the movie they just got so lazy that they re-created
the whole death scene at the end of Wrath of Khan, but mirrored it by
reversing the roles. And if that's not enough, the writers blatantly do
a copy/paste of most of the dialogue like "If we go in there we'll die,
the radiation will kill us" and "The decontamination process is not
complete, you'll flood the whole compartment."Later on they even forget that the attributes that makes Khan's blood
special, and which is needed to revive Kirk, also flows through the
veins of the other 72 augments sitting in cryogenic tubes in McCoy's
sick bay, the same cryogenic tubes that McCoy himself says earlier in
the movie he could not risk opening without possibly killing the person
inside, which could have been a solid reason to send Spock chasing
after Khan in a foot- chase through downtown San-Francisco to retrieve
a sample of Khan's blood, but instead, they have McCoy open a cryogenic
tube and remove it's occupant in order to freeze Kirk so he can
preserve his brain functions, I believe his exact words were "Get this
guy out of the cryo-tube, keep him in an induced coma." but still, poor
McCoy doesn't realize he could use that person's blood to revive Kirk.
So now we are led to believe that McCoy, the same McCoy who based most
of his arguments on ethics throughout the series and movies, is
perfectly capable of opening one of the tubes, risking another being's
life in the process, all to save another man? A little unethical if you
ask me. These guys obviously don't know what the hell they are doing
when it comes to writing Star Trek movies.This movie is, in my opinion, the worst in the entire series. Yes even
"The Final Frontier", because at least Shatner had the guts to go where
no other writer or director had gone before or since with that movie,
by doing a story about God.
