1
So so so bad. Critics need replacing

My 1st review! I was so disgusted with this film&annoyed critics
praised it I cracked and had a rant. Numerous Plot holes, contrivances, poor storytelling, character
logic&motivation;1. The stolen agent list macguffin; Made famous in M:I then overused in
films&TV shows; CharliesAngels2 etc - halfway through the film they
just forgot about it2. Hacking magic! Hacking can be done well;
goldeneye,swordfish,diehard4...Not just an easy contrived plot device.
Can we have a proper explanation &the rules&limitations of Silva's
hacking ability in this fiction? For all I know Silva can make
satellites fall on people.3. The irony of the 'can Bond operate in an internet world' theme...he
failed twice and got M killed...so he can't? 4. How out of place the above theme is; Bond is mature but always
current. His a walking encyclopedia (watch the start of any
Connery/Moore film). In the last 2 films he was using advanced mobile
phone tracking systems...adding hacking does not suddenly make Bond
take on the 'modern' age. Are economics or funding civilwars outdated?There was hacking&computers in 1995's Goldeneye..all of a sudden, NOW,
there are no more shadows? Did MI6 stop evolving in the late eighties?5.They have a meeting to discuss MI6? This was relevant in Batman, a
vigilante was trying to inspire people- It was intertwined in the
narrative&theme. Skyfall enquiry was just Sam Mendes ripping off Batman6. Silva's planned capture; Another overused device that was
coincidently in Batman. So what did Silva achieve? A conversation with
M? When this is revealed shouldn't we look back and have everything
make sense? But, NO, I was left wondering why they tried to kill Bond
twice in China.7. Why was a hacker in a cell controlled by a computer? Why is Q so
stupid he plugged in the laptop to the building? Why was the trap door
on the inside of the first glass door? why was there a trap door? How
did Silva evade an armed MI6 guard 20 meters from his cell?8. Super calculating (hack crazy)Silva's plan at the end was a
firefight? With a backup plan of another firefight?9. So they figured out Silva was dressed as a cop and no-one told
anyone? The irony of M defending herself (reading a poem) knowing her
own ex agent was about to shoot up the place was lost on
critics&writers alike.10. Could Bond not take a Sim free phone or'radio' &call backup when
Silva arrived at the end? Instead they had their Home Alone moment-
even Macaulay Culkin eventually called the police11. Silva is supposed to mirror Bond. But compare Bond's 'betrayal' to
Silva being handed over for torture... Some forced connection is made
considering they never met before. Silva tells a story of 2rats so we
know what we are supposed to think.12. Bond's betrayal is M ordering Naomi to take a risky shot. Bond
later tell's M he heard the order... why didn't he get out the way
then? he just kept fighting like an idiot. &did Naomi only have 1
bullet?13.You can't make Bond survive 2 gun shots and a fall like that. His
already an established character. The Punisher&Bourne are special
BECAUSE they survive. It can't happen to them again mid film/ mid
franchise.. 14. Bond follows an assassin&lets him kill innocent people! How is this
in his character?! The previous 2 films already rebooted Bond to show
WHY he doesn't let innocents die.15. Naomi is a forced character..appearing randomly to remind us she
still exists so we can think it's 'clever' when she becomes Moneypenny.
Money penny gets demoted from field agent to secretary?!! not even
analyst. If she is that hopeless why is she on the most important
mission ever? I think Sam Mendes hates women. 16. Bond doesn't even blink when the girl he just bedded a few hours
ago gets shot in cold blood. He identifies Severine as being sex
trafficked&abused- He then just jumps in her shower. I had little
problem with Bond tricking a woman into bed in live and let die- but
the sky-fall scene should land him in the S-offenders list. 17.They traced the shrapnel in Bond's chest to a 'special'bullet that
only 3 people use? His a 'ghost'...but we have his full flight
manifesto. This is how they advanced the plot? wait a minute....didn't
that bad guy shoot up half of turkey..? A contrivance& a plot hole in
one plot device, that takes some doing.18. One minute he can't shoot...10 seconds later he shoots everyone in
a 360 arc? so what happened? oh we are just abandoning that theme mid-
se.. 19. Quite a few instances of Bond just standing in front of a landscape
shot with his legs apart 'being deep'. I thought he was urinating at
first. 20. Q is both a quartermaster&a programmer for the sake of the
illogical theme.. but these are completely different skill sets...?21. Knowing all this...what is the list doing in Turkey? on a laptop
hardrive? why are only 2-3 agents on the case? They couldn't even do
the liberty of making something up for the audience. Imagine
Thunderball didn't show how SPECTRE got the nukes...Why couldn't Silva just hack the list? Oh because it isn't connected to
the internet you say...but the MI6 heating system is?The script makes no sense, the themes are inappropriate, Bond's
character&decision making has been altered &they have confused mature
with dinosaur. Die another Day was almost a Bond parody, but this one
is simply a mess,&a betrayal of Bond.Shame on critics too impatient to appreciate QoS for not spoon feeding
them everything & praising sky-fall because of poorly scattered themes&
metaphors on a plot that makes no sense, just because it makes them
feel clever
