3
Star Trek has officially jumped the shark as a franchise.

The new, alternate-universe film saga's characters are pale reflections
of their bona fide counterparts in the various Star Trek series and
some of the previous films from the good old days. They are those
characters in name only, aside from that they're just nods to the
originals with none of the depth.Star Trek has had a more sophisticated audience, in general, than your
average sci-fi action schlock. As fans, we've come to expect more from
Trek in the form of rich character development, important social
issues, myriad complex and plots and subplots.This movie shatters those expectations.We catch James T. Kirk et al in the middle of their erstwhile 5-year
mission as they encounter an alien armada which rapidly decimates the
Enterprise. So many unremarkable tropes variously reused, rehashed,
reintroduced. So many unremarkable characters presented, showcased,
finalized.The motion-sickness-inducing action inspires nothing but nausea. The
shallow interplay between all characters, protagonists and antagonists
alike, is bland and uninspired. This is action schlock.The action is decent. Following the captain and crew's moronic,
illogical thought process, the destruction of the Enterprise is
unsurprising and fantastically action-packed. The various combat and
grunt-laden melee is visceral and satisfying. Beyond (hah) that,
there's nothing.This new Scotty still has his oddly petite alien bromance. Uhura and
Spock show they still care for one another. Kirk shows a desire to keep
galloping around the galaxy in a starship rather than becoming a stodgy
Vice Admiral stationed on Earth. Anton Yelchin gives his final
performance before Daimler-Chrysler's poor engineering and quality
control seal the actor's doom.This is NOT Star Trek. This is as much Star Trek as a human
reincarnated in the holodeck is truly human. I honestly hope the
upcoming series will redeem it, but that hope fades like the Enterprise
in this lame duck effort.
