7
The Ritual (2017)

2017 has been a very mixed year for horror (so far, anyway) We've had
some fairly terrible movies like Rings, The Bye Bye Man and Annabelle:
Creation but we've also had some unique, memorable films such as Get
Out, It Comes at Night and IT. I'm still holding out for films such as
Happy Death Day, Jigsaw and Creep 2 to be great but one film I didn't
expect to enjoy was The Ritual. I saw the trailer before my screening
of IT and it looked to be just another throwaway horror movie trying to
be the next The Blair Witch Project. Thankfully, the film's trailer was
just a poor attempt at showing what the film actually is like and
shouldn't be used to assess the quality of the movie. The film's
premise isn't entirely original, a bunch of friends decide to go hiking
and to save time decide to cut through an eerie forest. This premise
has been done to death in movies and even though director David
Bruckner (V/H/S/) tries to set his film apart from the rest, the final
product ends up feeling very cliché. Where the film does shine is with
its cast of characters, the four friends on their hiking adventure
which takes a sour turn for the worst. Our protagonist Luke (Rafe
Spall) is the most interesting, fleshed-out character of the bunch and
I was surprised to find out that the first act of the movie is centred
around character development which really gave us a chance to learn
about and care for these characters.After witnessing the murder of his friend, Robert (Paul Reid), Luke
suffers incredible guilt and feels as if he's responsible for Robert's
death as he chose to hide instead of step in and try to protect his
friend. Spall does a good job portraying Luke by going the quiet and
reserved route for the first half of the movie and while I wouldn't say
there were any stand-out performances, everybody involved did well with
the material they had and the banter between the friends kept things
interesting and was good fun to watch.One of the things I absolutely loved about this movie was how it looked
visually. Director of photography Andrew Shulkind (Southbound) does an
incredible job of making the audience feel like they're in the woods
with these friends. The incredible overhead shots of the area truly
makes the forest feel like its own character which I adored. However,
some of the scenes shot at night are hard to make out due to how dark
it is at times but during the daytime sequences, the film looks
visually stunning.One of the weaker aspects of the movie is the horror. I'd actually
hesitate to even call this movie a horror flick and feel like if it was
marketed as a thriller, people would have enjoyed this movie a little
more (judging from some of the mixed reception it's received after it's
premiere at TIFF and ODEON's Scream Unseen program, which I saw the
film at).Although there's a few unsettling images and scenes scoured throughout,
I wouldn't say any of it was that scary. For the majority of the second
act, the horror comes from the friends discovering horrific things such
as a bear pinned up to a tree with its guts ripped out. Like I said
before, not entirely original but still unsettling. When the friends
realize they're going to have to find shelter on the first night of
their venture into the woods, they stay the night in an abandoned cabin
which has strange markings inside, similar to ones they've seen on some
of the trees outside. After searching the house for items to start a
fire, they discover a strange pagan headless creature in the basement
which looks like something ripped directly out of The Wicker Man. After
discovering this strange figure, the friends all try to get some sleep
but are each haunted by nightmares. Although we get to hear about most
of them, the only ones we get to experience are Luke's. All of them
reside in the shop where Robert was murdered and each one of these gets
progressively more and more disturbing throughout the course of the
film.Without going into spoiler territory, the third act of the movie caught
me off guard and really surprised me. As I said before, the trailer
made it seem as if this film was just trying to be the next Blair Witch
but once the true nature of the film is revealed, I was on the edge of
my seat until the credits rolled.The film has a lot of charm and humour which also surprised me. There's
a few moments in the movie during the third act which had myself and
the audience in hysterics. Also, it might contain my favourite visual
gag of the entire year involving Luke and an old lady. The film takes
itself very seriously but knows when to have fun and lighten up the
tone a little. This isn't a comedy though so if you're expecting
something along the lines of Zombieland or Shaun of the Dead in terms
of humour, you're going to be disappointed. The humour is definitely a
welcome addition though.Overall, The Ritual was a very fun time. Although, I wouldn't say it's
my favourite horror-thriller movie of the year, it does a great job
making you feel lost in the woods with these characters and with a
surprise shift in tone during the third act, the movie never feels
boring or uninteresting. Good performances, stunning visuals and an
entertaining, albeit cliché premise make for a solid directorial
feature debut. I'm looking forward to see more from Bruckner in the
future and if his previous work is any indication of how versatile he
is as a horror filmmaker (he previously worked on the first short in
the horror anthology V/H/S/) then we're in for a treat.
