1
Depressingly Bad

*** This review may contain spoilers *** The film is the worst film I
have ever seen. It enraged me and then deeply saddened me. Amid the
pervasive "Drugs and Alcohol are Cool" teeny bop-per mentality that is
catastrophically contrived and boring, there are racist, anti-Semitic
and homophobic "jokes" that are 'so done'. Ridiculous sexual myths are
once again being trudged out to yet another generation who might buy
into them. Myths such as the penis size being of all importance,
dildo's somehow being treasures to women, vagina's being stretched,
Women having orgasms by simply hopping on and off, etc. ad nausea, all
of which perpetuate an immature and misogynistic perspective of human
sexuality. Any adult watching the film would be bored, if not insulted.The worst quality of the movie is that the viewer is also made to
suffer through the complete degradation of women and their bodies.
Stella, a nursing mother, seems inexplicably unaware that her breast
milk is affected by alcohol; fortunately, her clever husband knows that
she should not breast feed the baby with her alcohol laced milk.
Honestly, every nursing mother in the world knows this. The remedy is
to pump the breast milk off but of course, klutz husband steps on the
pump and they have no backup. Another unconvincing set up. Curiously,
she is incapable of relieving herself and must get her husband to do
it. If this seems contrived, it is. It takes 3.5 minutes to set this
scenario up and another 2 minutes to execute a bunch of one-liners: " Oh, gross. They're hulking out. They look like my grandmother's
legs." (This in reference to her swollen breasts)"Get on your hands and knees. We need a pail or something." "I got like
four pails out of you.""We should go mom tipping later." "Just trying to lighten the mooed.
Mooed. That was udder lee traumatic. How much of you was traumatized
2%? 1%?" Five minutes devoted to degrading and equating women to cows. That's
19.2 percent of the movie. This segment appears exactly half way into
the film. The climax. And why? To delineate the whole point of the
film: Let's see how we can take something as beautiful, natural and
essentially, sacredly feminine as breastfeeding and portray it in the
most disgusting and degrading way we possibly can. How could any young woman after watching this possibly feel good about
her body and look forward to nurturing a child? How will she be able to
nurse a child without these horrible insults haunting her? Do we really
need to teach a new generation of young men to degrade women and their
bodies and regard women as disgusting cows? The writers, Andrew J. Cohen, and Brendan O'Brien should feel nothing
but shame for themselves. There are millions of writers who could
probably write a better screenplay in 24 hours than this pair could in
their life times. Shame on the producers, Evan Goldberg Seth Rogen, and
James Weaver who backed and promoted this film. Shame on Hollywood for
allowing these people to require artists to prostitute themselves in
such a rank cesspool.Probably the most poignant recurring comment in previous I.M.D.B.
comments is not the number of adults who left during the film but the
dead silence during and after the film for those who slogged it out.
The silence. The silence of an audience who has matured and recognizes
Hollywood for what it has been; immature and misogynistic. Humanity
deserves better. Can't we move on?
