8
Worth the watch

I was very interested in watching this film as a true-crime buff. We
all understand that there will be a certain amount of theatrical
license taken whenever dealing with such subject matter. I didn't
expect it to be too far off base from reality since the Whitey Bulger
fiasco has been highly publicized. Johnny Depp was a little odd choice
in my opinion by his been known to pull bigger rabbits on the hat (even
literally). Good to have Johnny Depp reminders every once in while he's
a legitimate actor not just trying to fund additional island property.The problem in films of this nature tend to be how familiar the general
public is with the issues and our opinions of what we believe reality
to be. We hold film a little too stringently against reality or at
least what the media has presented as reality to most of us. I would
like to think that enough due diligence has gone into whatever form of
dramaturgy has happened by responsible parties to present a relatively
balanced film. But in general we want the grit and grime without regard
for legalities or implications.True, the film focuses on alliances and the levity provided that we
have always suspected. And we have seen a ton of films in this genre
with such focus and we have fabricated our own concepts of how such
organizations work, how such unholy alliances are formed, and therefore
have an expectation of what we should see. This past history in turn
doesn't really provide a fair shake for any film in the current time
frame as we have so much the compare it to.I believe that the real demystification of this spell (not to say the
cast wasn't good or to question the deftness of Depp) is that we seem
to have seen this story a lot. We know how it ends, we realize there's
very little arc and we'd like to see a twist to the hat trick that we
haven't seen before... If it sticks to the reality of the situation,
it's simply not gonna happen.Does it deliver? Yes. Is it a Tarantino yarn? Not remotely. Will you be
entertained, to a greater extent? Yes.I think this year DiCaprio may have Depp on this one.
