10
A Mega-Blockbuster Conglomeration of Marvel Superheroes!

The Avengers is a clean-burning, six-cylinder entertainment - a
wall-to-wall action bonanza, executed with a fluid coherence. It laughs
in the face of expectation and instead sets its own bar that all
blockbusters need to follow.Following on from the first Thor flick, the demi-god's evil brother
Loki (a deliciously fiendish Tom Hiddleston) is intent on subjugating
humanity with the help of an all-powerful energy cube that'll allow him
to bring his alien armies to Earth. Trouble starts when this glowing
cube of untold power called the Tesseract is appropriated by Loki, who
with a nudge from his magic assegai brain-zaps a snap marksman Hawkeye
(a competent Jeremy Renner) and a top scientist into his evil scheme of
world domination. All that stands in his way is Nick Fury (the ever
reliable Samuel Jackson), the head of the covert peacekeeping
organization S.H.I.E.L.D. who sets about uniting the world's
superheroes to avert the threat, rounding up our titular team - Iron
Man (a hilarious Robert Downey Jr.), The Hulk (a subversively charming
Mark Ruffalo), Thor (the charismatic Chris Hemsworth), Captain America
(a sincere turn by Chris Evans) and Black Widow (the sexy but earnest
Scarlett Johansson) – hoping they will be greater than the sum of their
parts. Problem is, they're a dysfunctional outfit, with differences of
opinion and troubled pasts, and one of them is a gigantic, green loose
cannon. Now, with a global catastrophe looming, they must subsume
individual will to the collective good. But Loki isn't called 'the god
of mischief' for nothing! Before Fury's new super team can find its
balance, Loki is in their heads sowing seeds of doubt, distrust, anger
and conflict. Can earth's mightiest heroes put their differences aside
in time to protect the planet – or is their coming together an even
bigger threat than Loki himself?The Avengers doesn't buckle under the weight of its gargantuan
expectations and overflowing cast, largely because of Joss Whedon. He
weaves all of the powder-keg moments into a story that is meaningful
and always makes sense. The point in The Avengers is to bring six
separate characters together as a team without sacrificing their
individuality and by extension their value as solo franchises and
Whedon does an excellent job of keeping the disparate personalities of
his protagonists in play. Whedon's script sparks up the exposition with
some sparkling dialogue, high stakes and balls- to-the-wall action
spectacle. If you don't believe me, check out the thrilling
alien-bashing finale on the streets of Manhattan - it is a pure fan boy
wet-dream. Smart, funny, pulsating and surprisingly cathartic, Joss Whedon
succeeds in appeasing its core fanbase. From ambition to scale to the
way it justly balances each remarkable character, The Avengers is
utterly stimulating, satisfyingly scripted and damn right faultless big
screen entertainment. The Avengers make us do something increasingly
rare in these over-franchised times - root for a sequel. Go smash!
