1
Totally avoid

I fell for it, because I enjoyed taken even though I was told to avoid
this I watched it. Whats wrong with this movie, the question should be
whats right with it.1. Villains are out for revenge manage to track neeson bribe their way
past security yet when they face neesom they are totally incompetent.2. Kim has her swimming session and the villains don't bother her at
all until they have neeson and his ex wife.3. Villains manage to kill hotel security very easily but not one of
their bullets even scracth neeson.4. Istanbul a popular tourist city is full of slums and women covered
in burqas.5. Taxi drivers in Istanbul have better cars than the police of turkey
who have something that resembles ladas.6. You can set off many grenades in a dense city but no military or
police will look for you.7. When villains catch you they will not pat you down for hidden
weapons, or mobile phones they will just tie you with cheap plastic
bands then leave you alone for you to escape.8. While in a gun stand off and a baddie pointing a gun to your wives
head will conveniently let you make a phone call and cant find your
daughter even though you just told her in front of the baddies.9. Albanians speak English with each other but some speak their native
language.10. You can drive a car into a US embassies courtyard, heavy artillery
is fired at you but not a single bullet hits you nor does any bullet
damage the engine or tires of the car.11. A girl who fails her test many times is all of a sudden able to
drive a car like transporter.12. You hide in your fathers closet in a swimsuit and are asked to act
casual and blend in yet you choose to steal clothes from hotel staffs
lockers and attract all the attention.13. You can count seconds on your watch blindfolded and work out the
directions to the location you are kidnapped to.14. You get slashed on your neck with a blade and are hung upside down
to bleed to death yet later your wound automatically heals over a few
hours and your fresh to go again.15. While fighting camera angles and during car chases camera angles
don't have to make sense you have to use your imagination.16. Your typical action movie its justified to have Muslims as evil
villains and they are so bad at it and so easy to kill.I can go on and on with the terrible flaws in this movie which doesn't
make sense and is a total waste of time.
