2
Typical Adam Sandler

'The Ridiculous 6' is one of the worst films to release in 2015. Like
'Pixels' earlier this year Sandler has tried his hardest to make an
unwatchable movie. And like 'Pixels', he has come pretty darn close. As
the poster says, 'The Ridiculous 6' is a Netflix original film.
Basically it's a movie that skipped out on a theater run and went
straight to streaming. Just like the far better 'Beasts of No Nation'
(which I will be reviewing soon). Obviously this isn't the first
Netflix original film and it won't be the last, but as of right now it
is the worst. Now, before I go on ripping this film to pieces lets talk
about the few things this movie gets right. The main thing that I
thought this film did well was its casting. Of course, this excludes
Sandler. Like Shyamalan, his name has become next to worthless in both
audiences and studios eyes. Most of the other actors are definitely
Sandler favorites but they actually seem like they cared about this
movie. Some are a nuisance and others are clearly racist but they
genuinely seem like they want to be there.Then there's Sandler. The man behind some of the worst films of the
last decade. Why is this? Because none of his films are any different.
He casts the same exact people in every single one and then doesn't
even give a crap about what is going on. His blank stare and monotone
reading of his lines is cringe worthy in every film his has made as of
late. Including this one. And just like always he casts himself as the hero of the film. The man
who can do no wrong. The man who, even when something bad happens, he
is somehow scott free. 'The Ridiculous 6' is the epitome of this
Sandler cliché. Here he plays a Indian that has some very unclear super
powers. Super powers that make him the "unlikely" leader of five other
completely random people that films pretends are his brothers.People that he happenstances by as he looks for his father. In this one
line I have summed up the entirety of this two plus hour film. It's
such a simple plot line that, somehow, the film forgets all about for
more then half the time. For three forths of this film we watch these 6
stupid, flat characters do absolutely nothing. In an incredibly lousy
attempt to pull laughs from thin air. There are SO many completely
random scenes that have zero to do with the movie. Scenes that are
literally only there to get a gratuitous laugh out of.But the laughs never come. What's worse is that this film isn't a "so
bad it's funny" kind of movie. It's actually classified as a parody. A
parody that is so incredibly dull and long that it can't be viewed as a
comedy. This is made worse by how racist this film is. If a character
isn't white or black then he is a stereotype. We get stereotypes of
Indians, Mexicans, and the mentally handicap. It's so uncomfortable to
watch that when the film hits a legitimate joke you can't laugh because
of how terrible everything is.'The Ridiculous 6' is a trainwreck. At this point it's clear that
Sandler no longer cares about what kind of film he makes. As long as he
gets a paycheck there is nothing that he won't ruin. He wastes talented
actors time with this pointless film. The script feels as though it was
ripped straight from Sandlers last film and slightly modified to "fit"
the old west. Please do not waste your time on this film. If you feel
the need to watch a film on Netflix check out literally anything else.
