8
A welcome return to form, this trilogy capper overcomes a weak start to impress with unexpected buddy chemistry, surprising plot twists and exhilarating action

Tony Stark might be at his best with his gadgets, but ironically his
movies are best when he is without them. 'Iron Man 3' is a perfect
demonstration of that – for the first 40 mins, Stark is the same
arrogant, cocksure person he was in the self-important 'Iron Man 2';
and then after crashing and burning in his damaged suit in the middle
of a wintry expanse, Stark is forced to start over, and that rebirth
brings back what made the first 'Iron Man' so infectiously entertaining
in the first place.Indeed, you've been warned – don't expect 'Iron Man 3' to be firing
from all cylinders right from the get-go as 'The Avengers' did; rather,
the road to that payoff is slow and bumpy. This is a 'post-Avengers'
Stark, traumatised by his near-death experience closing the Chitauri
wormhole back in New York. At the expense of sleep and his relationship
with the ever-lovely Pepper Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow), Stark throws
himself into work – which to him means further refining his 'Iron Man'
armour. In the meantime, he leaves the heavy lifting to Colonel Rhodes
(Don Cheadle), commissioned by the President to fight terror in the War
Machine suit (basically the 'Iron Man' fighting machine but in the
patriotic colours of red, white and blue).Col Rhodes' latest target is a terrorist going by the monicker of 'The
Mandarin', who has brought his war to home soil after targeting US
installations abroad. Only when his former driver cum good friend,
Happy Hogan (Jon Favreau), is fatally injured does Stark sit up and pay
attention, and in an ill-advised and egotistical move, reveal his home
address in an outright challenge to The Mandarin. That, as you would
already know from the trailer, leaves his oceanside home decimated and
Stark in a barely functioning suit in the snow-covered wilds of
Tennessee.Up to this point, a lot of what is meant to pass as wisecracks is
exchanged as dialogue among Stark, Potts and Hogan, but the smart-
talking isn't particularly amusing or engaging and gets increasingly
tiresome after a while. But as we said at the start, it is precisely
when Stark is forced to start over that the movie starts getting into
the groove. Abandoning the slick and sleek mechanical tricks and
gimmicks, the middle act settles into a surprisingly old-school act in
a small-town-USA where Stark had meant to visit to investigate a recent
incident which he suspects is linked to The Mandarin.There, some of the sparkiest repartee unfolds between Stark and a young
kid he meets, Harley (Ty Simpson), who will not only enable him to
overcome his PTSD but also become an unlikely pre-pubescent sidekick.
The rapport between Stark and Harley significantly enlivens the film,
with the 'connection' (there is a special meaning to the quotation
here) between them perhaps the most poignant relationship developed
here. Thankfully, the delightfully warm and witty midsection only makes
the film better from here onwards.Surpassing expectations of a straightforward good-versus-bad showdown,
veteran action movie screenwriter Shane Black and his first-time
feature film writer Drew Pearce engineer a couple of elegant twists,
including an ingenious revelation on the true identity of The Mandarin.
Not to worry, we're not in spoiler mode here, but suffice to say that
it is probably the very reason why Academy Award-winning actor Ben
Kingsley was enticed to the role. And with that surprise comes the
action that you've been waiting for from this summer blockbuster.Black, who is making his sophomore feature film, offers up two eye-
popping set pieces. The first sees a daring attack on Air Force One in
mid-air, leaving 13 people in free-fall and a truly exhilarating
sequence where Iron Man gets to play 'barrel of monkeys' with all of
them and guide them to safety. The second is the elaborate and game-
changing climax – not only for the fact that it is the first and only
time in the whole movie that we see the Iron Legion in action, but also
because it comes to a startling conclusion that re-establishes the
dynamic between Stark and Potts. Both are even more astounding
considering Black's last and first movie was a crime caper called 'Kiss
Kiss Bang Bang' that never would have primed you into thinking he was
capable of such spectacle.But one supposes that Robert Downey Jr must have seen that potential in
Black to recommend him as the candidate to take over Favreau, the
familiarity between actor and director paying off in how the former
trusts the latter to take the character in a different direction. While
he was vulnerable before, Stark did not have the same attachment as he
does here with Potts or the same sense of introspection that is evident
in his voice-over. In turn, Downey Jr. gives his best performance as
Tony Stark/ Iron Man yet, with a newfound sense of frailty that
develops convincingly into humility to match his heroics.Disagree if you must, but we always loved Stark more when he was less
full of himself, and a refreshingly new aspect here is the buddy
element that sees Stark pairing first with Harley and then with Col
Rhodes. In particular, the finale sees a rousing partnership with the
latter – both Downey Jr and Cheadle clearly enjoying trading quips and
barbs at each other while saving the day. And given how the 'Iron Man'
movies have been at their most rousing when Stark rebuilds himself, the
last shot of Stark beginning a new phase in his life bodes well for the
future of the franchise, especially if it is to continue its life
outside of 'The Avengers'.
