6
Unevenly balances adult issues with childhood wonder

The story of AA Milne (played here by Domnhall Gleeson) finding his own
self-worth and connection with his son through 'Winnie The Pooh,' with
a greater focus on the stories themselves, could have made for a
delightful one-hour Sunday special. While "Goodbye Christopher Robin"
includes these elements, the attempts to transpose them into a wider,
meaningful narrative sometimes fall flat.The opening jumps between three different eras in as many minutes, and
the transitions are jarring and abrupt in a way that needlessly
disorientates the viewer. Once the film has settled down in East
Sussex, some issues that plague its running time develop.It can be hard to care for the problems of someone for whom money is no
issue and has Margot Robbie for a wife. The writers have solved this
through showing Milne suffering from PTSD after serving at the Somme,
though it's difficult to say how much it relates to the historical
figure himself.Milne was more the overt patriot that the film portrays, serving in the
WWII Home Guard (not included in "Goodbye Christopher Robin") as well
as the Western Front. He also managed to get his son into war even
after he failed a medical, which is included in the film but doesn't
fully delve into Milne's volte-face on an anti-war philosophy
portrayed.This impact of war on Milne plays a key role in the film, but it never
quite fits smoothly into place. However, it is interesting to follow
Milne's arc as he is tempted into the woods and childhood imagination
by his son Christopher Robin (Will Tilston), and the best parts of the
film come as he and his son play in the forests of Hartfield.Something the film captures well is the origin of Winnie The Pooh in
British quaintness, a far cry from the sugar-soaped creatures that
exist today. Whatever "Goodbye Christopher Robin" is, it has avoided
the misguided catastrophe of the upcoming "Peter Rabbit" film.A highlight of the film is the relationship between Christopher Robin
and his nanny (Kelly Macdonald). Macdonald brings both a warmth and a
quiet sadness to the role, and while Will Tilston is as vaguely
annoying as most child actors it's possible to believe in a real
connection with the pair.Margot's Robbie's character doesn't work. She's a manipulative,
self-interested harpy, more interested in the fame of her son than his
development as a child. I'm sure some people with a familiarity with
Daphne Milne may take an affront at this portrayal. From a story
perspective, her early behaviour can be assigned to post-natal
depression, but in later scenes, she transforms also into a thinly
developed antagonist to get knocked down by moralising characters.East Sussex is a beautiful county, adoringly shot in "Goodbye
Christopher Robin." While these woods are so important, and director
Simon Curtis does try a few things to add variety, unfortunately, there
does get to be a level of visual repetitiveness to all the trees and
pooh sticks.A sentimental event in the final act, referenced in the opening scenes,
feels manipulative as the narrative is suddenly reversed. Yet in spite
of flaws, "Goodbye Christopher Robin" can fleetingly capture the wonder
of Winnie The Pooh and has genuinely heartfelt moments. It's also
probably one more for the adults than the kids, which is unfortunate
considering its subject matter. Although there is a clear sense of
conclusion to the film, there is also talk of a sequel.christophermarchant.wordpress.com
