1
5/10. Sorry folks, It's pretty pants. And I REALLY wanted it to be good.

SPOILER ALERT. SPOILER ALERT! You have been warned.The Premiere -I was at the London World Premiere last week, and Interestingly there
was clearly tension between Mark (Director) and Brad Pitt. I would have
thought a director of this size movie would be able to make a speech.
But no. Reading from cards he fumbled over his words, got his actors
names seriously wrong in front of 1000 people and was clearly very very
nervous. Which is odd because any director should be excited or proud
to be presenting their work to the world!Brad Pitt in interview said they chose Mark as he was really good at
the little emotional moments between characters. Well they mush have
cut those bits out.The movie -A zombie film with no blood? I've no idea what the zombies were doing
as we never see them kill anyone! They just run around a lot, far too
fast for a 'human being'. No decapitated zombies, and a incredibly poor
script that could have been knocked together in an evening. Speaking to actors who worked on the film they told me a lot of the
dialogue was improvised. And it shows. Good dialogue is written. It is
very hard for an actor to come up with great dialogue on set with crew
around, lights, explosions, gun fire and a budget and schedule pressing
down on you - that is what rehearsals and, dare I say, a screenwriter
are for.I just don't think Mark Forster (Quantum of Bollox) knows how to
direct. No emotional connection to any of the characters. No big climax
at the end and the least threatening Zombie in the history of movies.
Click click click. A tedious V/O from Brad at the end, about "only just the beginning, of
the war, YAWN..." We have heard this a hundred times.There was some truly awful acting, characters that appear and go in a
scene, that do nothing, and flimsy science that is just insulting to
anyone who can actually think.The only good bit was the Zombie as Ants scene, but it would have been
hugely improved if a zombie with a giant leaf walked past in the
background.The audience laughed at several moment, that I don't believe the
director even realised were gags! Brad doesn't even really do any acting. He does a bit of running around
and a fight or two. No great lines, and I don't really believe that he
loves his kids and wife so terribly much.Best thing in it was - Daniella Kertesz, but her scenes are clearly cut
to bits, unlike her hand, which just seems to be fine after a couple of
gin and tonics. I'll have what she's having!And leaning suitcases against a curtain? Seriously. That was really
bad.The film could have been saved in the Edit - with some clever
re-positioning of the major scenes, to get the structure right, but
having seen Brad and Mark together, they had clearly fallen out of love
with the movie.Nothing here we haven't seen in 28 Days Later, or any other zombie
film, or even The War of the World that was written 100 years ago.At the end the applause was half hearted and everyone got up and left
super fast.The aftermath -Please GOD can we stop giving bad directors a second, and in this case
10th chance. This film made me angry that a studio can waste so much
money on what was a mediocre idea even at the beginning, and gave it to
a director who has a proved track record of not being able to fix a bad
script, or direct action.The budget on this would keep an independent film maker in business for
the next 400 years - or if we put that in a real time scale - all the
way back to Elizabeth the 1st.Frustrating.Nothing to see here ladies and gentlemen, move on.
