5
Weird, Whacky & Wicked But Also Dull, Sterile & Vapid.

Weird, whacky & wicked but equally dull, sterile & vapid, The Lobster
is a strange beast that actually begins quite well but tumbles down the
road after the halfway mark to conclude on a rather uninteresting note.
The concept is no doubt intriguing and it takes its time to make us
familiar to the society inhabiting its tale but all of it doesn't
amount to much in the end & it fails to leave any lasting impression.Set in a dystopian future, The Lobster presents a world in which single
people are arrested & taken to a hotel where they are obliged to find a
matching partner within 45 days or they are transformed into animals &
released into the woods. The plot follows David who arrives at the
hotel for the same reason but his endeavours of finding a mate before
his time is over ends far more tragically than he expected.Co-written & directed by Yorgos Lanthimos, The Lobster marks his
English-language debut and the idea & inspiration behind it is both
clever & admirable. The sequences taking place in the hotel are nicely
carried out but its second half lacks the same level of creativity
that's present in the first half. The excitement goes missing once the
protagonist leaves the hotel and from there on, it just limps
throughout its remaining runtime.The hotel is neatly maintained but it also has a creepy vibe about it.
Camera movements are fluid, colour hues wonderfully compliment its
overcast ambiance and lighting seems natural for the most part. Editing
allows the plot to unfold at an unhurried pace but the whole story
feels twice as long because of that, with no idea of where it's headed.
Last, the background score is just as odd as the story's content and is
intermittently utilised.Coming to the performances, The Lobster features a fine cast in Colin
Farrell, Rachel Weisz, Léa Seydoux, Ben Whishaw & John C. Reilly and
most of them are simply bland & lifeless in their respective roles. It
can be argued that the spiritless rendition of these scripted people
was deliberate but it doesn't really help in enriching the experience,
at all. The deadpan wit is occasionally amusing but it's also too easy
to get frustrated by whatever is happening.On an overall scale, The Lobster is an uncanny mix of bizarre ideas
that, in its effort to play with multiple things at once, may end up
drifting many of its viewers. While I found nothing lovable about it,
its parody of the society that gives way too much credit to
companionship, in addition to the dig it takes at those match-making
algorithms which rely on similar traits & likeness factor is one aspect
I liked but in all seriousness, The Lobster is too mediocre to be of
any significance.
