1
Truly one of the worst movies I have ever seen

This abortion of a movie should never have seen the light of day. With
a credits list of OVER 1,300 people, you think someone would have put
their hand up and said "Umm... Wait a minute"This is supposed to be 1974, but apparently no one bothered to check
any actual history. Even the props are more modern, with an office full
of DEC-VT100 display terminals from 1978 and later. Many other items in
this movie are clearly more modern than they should be. Totally lazy
for such an expensive project.I guess if you cast Samuel L. Jackson into anything these days, it must
pass his "cartoon silliness test" to be produced. Tarantino can get
away with this with great dialog and action. The clowns producing this
hairball should hide their faces in public.You can tell from the very beginning that this is going to be bad. Even
if you, as did I, go into it expecting very little. The setup of the
movie is long and face-slapping cliché. The actors, whom we know to be
quite skilled, are entirely wasted by bad bad bad dialogue and bad
direction. The editing is not so good either.And when we get out onto the ocean (1974 remember), we are insulted by
Hollywood physics and meteorology. A huge storm doesn't even churn up
the waves near the ship *facepalm*Of course, the dorks then fly their non-vintage helicopters into the
hell-storm, with super-fake lightning all around, and get through to
see the beautiful islands.Within a few minutes, ALL of them have been knocked down by insisting
on flying close enough to Kong to get bashed *facepalm* holy crap.Things only get more clichéd from there, with the grizzly 28 year
survivor (with the 20 year old son at the end), the demented Samuel
Jackson staring and almost drooling as he chews the scenery.Vietnam veterans are insulted by their blind obedience to a ranting
idiot. Civilians and military alike enter "the valley of death" in
spite of the writers allowing some of the characters to suggest it's a
bad idea.And then it gets really bad. "OMG bad".And in all of this, you feel incredibly bored. It's dull, and bad, and
stupid.Oh, and the "teaser for the idiots' sequel" comes after the 1,300+
lines of credits, if you are not asleep or barfing in the toilet.Astoundingly bad.
