7
"Did You Try to Hurt Yourself?"

In our pharmaceutically inclined society, side effects are ever-present
hazards of prescription drug usage. Whether they are minimized in
print, or spoken in a hushed tone at the close of television
commercials, side effects have become a shady companion of prescription
drugs. Side Effects, Steven Soderbergh's alleged final film, focuses on
the consequences visited upon a young couple after the side effects
from the wife's medication cause her to commit an alarming act. As the
chasm opens beneath this young woman, her psychiatrist struggles with
his responsibility for her predicament, and confront his lingering
suspicion about his patient's state of mind.Ever the auteur, Soderbergh remains delightfully unpredictable with
this latest feature. Side Effects initially presents itself as an
indictment of the pharmaceutical industry, wearing its heavy-handed
message on its sleeve, but promptly converts into a psychological
suspense thriller. Soderbergh stares you directly in the eyes while he
rips the rug from beneath your feet, sending you spiraling toward a
conclusion that is equally unexpected and pleasing. Soderbergh and
screenwriter Scott Z. Burns (Contagion, The Bourne Ultimatum) channel
Hitchcock, creating an in-depth narrative that remains unpredictable
until its final scene. Soderbergh is known for generating a positive film environment for his
cast, and maximizing the actors' potential in his films. Although the
cast for Side Effects is comprised of actors who have previously
provided impressive performances, each actor presents a character that
rivals any prior roles. Rooney Mara plays the young woman at the
epicenter of the conflict. Mara is extremely engrossing, creating an
aura of discontent and depression within her situation. She acts as the
film's catalyst, holding all the characters together while prompting
them toward their conclusions. Attractive, graceful, and erratic, Mara
is the wounded girl who isn't all that she seems.While the film's driving force is Mara, Jude Law is its principle
focus. As Mara's overwhelmed psychiatrist, Law provides his most
empathetic role to date. Law establishes a flawed character who
struggles with the consequences forced upon him, and transforms into a
protagonist worthy of our admiration. Law and Mara provide such
intriguing characterizations, Soderbergh seems to have difficulty
deciding which to devote more time to. The scenes they share are the
most arresting in this film.There are few things more satisfying than a film which receives little
attention, but creates an unexpectedly entertaining experience. Though
Soderbergh has billed Side Effects as his swan song, he confirms that
he is a cinematic mastermind in a film that would be an impressive
conclusion to an eccentric career. Indulge in this unconventional
thriller; you won't mind the side effects.flickermotion.blogspot.com/
