8
A terrible event ... but a moving film

THE IMPOSSIBLE (2012) The 2004 tsunami was one of the deadliest natural disasters on record.
Because it occurred in the Christmas season and hit many resort area
beaches its death toll of almost 250,000 was indiscriminate, taking not
only South Asians but many visiting vacationers. People everywhere were
affected by it. My own relatives who were then living in Thailand were
destined that day to be on the beach, but, unknown to the rest of us,
illness caused them to alter their plans. I personally heard from Thai
acquaintances the story of nieces and nephews who excitedly ran to the
shore to see the wondrous phenomenon of the receding ocean, only to be
swamped by its return. Weeks later, flying over the Indonesian
coastline, I could see with my own eyes just how far inland the wave
had rushed, and the devastation it had wrought.How do you frame such a catastrophe in human terms, and present a
situation of pure chaos in a way that makes a compelling story? How do
you tell such a tale in a way that respects both the lost and the
survivors, many of whom suffered personal tragedies as well, and more
of whom bore the guilt of survival? How does one story tell some of the
many stories of that day? These were among the challenges that faced
director Juan Antonio Bayona and screenwriter Sergio G. Sanchez when
they decided to put an account of the 2004 tsunami on the screen. Their
solution was to deal with one British family on vacation in Thailand
from Japan, but their film uses that family as a catalyst to show the
tsunami's awful effect not only on the tourist population but on the
local people who suffered even more.Both the film itself and the filmmakers have taken pains to say that
this is a "true story," and they have aimed for the greatest possible
authenticity in the circumstances. They have based themselves on
detailed interviews with the family members and with other survivors,
some of whom actually appear in the film. (For example, those who tell
their tales to Ewan McGregor at the bus station are almost all actual
survivors.) While footage of the tsunami strike itself was shot in a
water tank at Alicante on the Spanish coast, and a couple of days
filming of interiors took place in Spanish studios, the remainder of
this picture was shot on location in Thailand using the real places of
the story, such as the Orchid Beach Hotel in Phang Nga, and the actual
hospital where much of the action occurs.The actual Thai locations and the many Thai actors keep the production
values superb, and give this film an authenticity it would not
otherwise have. So of course do the survivors who take part, whose
emotions are sometimes all too real. Many video shots exist of the
tsunami hitting the Asian beaches, but no one who was not there can
have any real idea of what it must have been like to have been caught
up by its waters. Bayona has chosen to focus not so much on the massive
power of the tidal wave itself but on the sheer terror and
disorientation it must have created for those submerged in it, and upon
the human toll it took. But his scenes of its striking are horrific
enough to give some sense of its magnitude, even on the screen. Nor
does he pull his punches in some of the grisly scenes that follow. The
impressive results that display both the striking wave and its terrible
aftermath owe much to production designer Eugenio Caballero.The big names here are Ewan MacGregor as Henry and Naomi Watts as
Maria, his doctor wife, while Geraldine Chaplin has a cameo role as a
lady who comforts one of their sons on a starlit night. MacGregor and
Watts seem to suit their parts, but in a sense they are playing
predictable roles. They become a couple literally torn apart, a father
having to search among the debris for the remainder of his family and a
mother who for much of the picture hovers close to death. The family's
three sons are played by Tom Holland (Lucas), Samuel Joslin (Thomas)
and Oaklee Pendergast (Simon). The two younger boys are cute as well as
being effective, but that is not really a word that suits Tom Holland.
The young British actor displays a surprising maturity and delivers a
wonderfully measured performance, reminiscent of a younger Daniel
Radcliffe. Despite the bigger names involved, it is his portrayal of
Lucas that carries the picture since he is the hub around whom events
revolve as the individual stories unfold. That is a lot to ask of a
young actor, but Holland delivers.No one story can ever do justice to the events of that day and the days
that followed. Nor can a story set in just one location ever capture
just how wide-ranging were the tsunami's effects. How can you tell the
story of what happened almost simultaneously in Indonesia and India,
Myanmar and Malaysia, and eventually affected even the African coast.
Thankfully, Bayona doesn't try. He focuses on the few, hoping that
through them audiences will better understand the tale of the many. For
such a story, The Impossible is perhaps a more than fitting title, but
the film works and gives a view that is both visually impressive and
dramatically moving.The Impossible premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival on
September 9, 2012. It will open in Spain on October 11, and go into
general release in North America in the last week of December.Ray Lahey
