8
The Name of the Movie, and the Feeling of Watching It

The newest venture between Jennifer Lawrence, David O. Russell, Bradley
Cooper, and Robert De Niro hasn't been given the same love as past
films such as "Silver Lining Playbook," and "American Hustle." The
story is partially based on the real life entrepreneur Joy Mangano, but
many of the characters are changed or invented, and the struggles of
Mangano are sometimes supplemented by other women's struggles and life
stories. While the film doesn't have the same polished, straight
forward feel of its predecessor, or the desperate neediness of "Silver
Linings", it balances its elements well and is a strange yet satisfying
watch.While past collaborations between this dream team have yielded multiple
acting and creative nominations, Lawrence received the sole nomination
in her turn as Mangano. It's clear that the film deserved that one, but
none other. Up against such heavyweights as "Spotlight," and "The
Revenant," "Joy" didn't have much of a chance of Best Director,
Screenplay, or Cinematography. Maybe Costuming should have come into
it, but the nominations looked pretty solid, and with "Mad Max's"
unprecedented win, it's easy to see why "Joy" didn't get much love.
Lawrence's performance was really what was holding the film together,
but otherwise there wasn't anything truly extraordinary about this
film, and it definitely didn't deserve kudos. Brie Larson rightly won
for "Room," but if Lawrence had taken home the gold I wouldn't have
been all that shocked. For the first part of the film everything feels
a bit disjointed and confused. Mangano's family is a mishmash of her
divorced parents (De Niro and Madsen), who can't seem to get along, her
children, her Venezuelan husband (Ramirez) who doesn't work enough and
lives in her basement, and her grandmother (Ladd), who also narrates.
Though all these characters make a great impression and add
eccentricity and flavor to a straight forward success story, they clog
up the screen at times with their neuroses and flabbergasting
weirdness. If some of these characters had been toned down, other more
interesting ones could have been better explored. Joy and her father
have this complicated relationship, which seems to be tense at all
times, further made rigid by Joy's half-sister Peggy (Rohm). This
relationship is never truly explored, past seeing Mr. Mangano give a
terrible speech at Joy's wedding. Later in the film he adds to her
angst by moving in with her, and becomes her biggest critic, though
again it's unclear why. If that had been explored well it would have
added something truly real and interesting to a story that feels dated.When the film deals straight on with Joy's story of adversity and
bankruptcy in the face of her ingenuity and chutzpah, it gains its
footing. The last half is inspirational, interesting, and uplifting.
Mangano really went above and beyond what any person would do and saved
herself and her family single-handedly. Movies like this, that show
women succeeding in a world that only wants to break them down into
bite sized pieces, need to be made. They don't garner as much praise,
or make all the money at the box office, but they inspire the next
generation of female filmmakers, and people in general.
