1
A good reminder of what to not do while making a movie.

The Green InfernoI'm going to break my review down into a few sections. I'm writing my
review as a film student but not trying to say I'm an expert in anyway.
I don't like to leave reviews on films I found to be awful but after
watching The Green Inferno I feel like I have to.Synopsis:A group of college students (activists) travel to the Amazon to save
the rain forest and find themselves battling to save their own lives.Acting:Immediately, the acting was poor. I don't know what type of college the
writers went to or are trying to model their story after, but I have
never seen college students act like that. It seemed too unnatural. My
friends along with myself kept pointing out how the acting didn't seem
natural and that the actors were not very good. Throughout the movie
however the acting did get better. So that's an upside I suppose. Directing:I felt like I was watching a movie that didn't have a director. What I
mean by this is that it appeared as a movie that had someone running
around with a camera shooting actors who have never acted before. I
felt like the director didn't care about his movie at all.Cinematography:The visual experience was far from enjoyable. There is one particular
shot that I'd like to talk about. There was a scene in which the actors
were talking about something on the side of the river. Clearly
something I was supposed to see. The camera shake was so intense that I
couldn't even see what they were talking about. I'm sure it was some
type of jungle cat but not really sure. The overused camera shake was
throughout the entire movie.Editing:It looked as if they didn't have it in the budget to have the film
color graded. Looked like the entire thing was shot on a cheap dslr and
edited in iMovie. Story:The story would have been fine if it weren't for the following, the
scene where Alejandro was masturbating in the cage, the scene where the
tribe were high off of a small amount of Marijuana cooked within a
body, and pretty much every death scene was bad. I have never felt like leaving a movie theater early until watching The
Green Inferno. I had to force myself to stay until the end simply
because I paid to watch it. I like to watch movies whether they be
great films or terrible movies. The Green Inferno goes to the top of my
terrible list. I do not recommend this movie to anyone.
