8
Destined for cult status

Opening up the week after John Wick 2 and 50 shades 2 and the same week
as The Great Wall, does not bode well for the R rated box office of one
of the most cryptic, deranged, and disturbing films ever made. You will
hate this one or love it, not likely to get many in between votes.
There are images in this film that I will never get out of my head. I
am smarter than your average bear but I really have to see the film
again to figure a lot of it out. And though I gave it an 8, I am not
sure it is something I want to subject myself to again.I really enjoyed Dane De Haan's performance. I was not familiar with
him before this film. Jason Isaac is solid and Mia Goth is a
fascinating actress that I had also not seen before. Where do I start? The running theme of eels? The numerous Octagenarian
nude scenes? The torture scenes? The cryptic mystery of the Spa? Yes, I
think I will start there. We join the De Haan character at Dr. Volmer's
Swiss spa as he spends a great amount of the film on squeaky crutches
wandering the estate and trying to figure out what the heck is going
on. Needless to say, he sees and is subjected to a lot of dark and
twisted stuff.Verbinski does a wonderful job at the helm. Everyone has been comparing
this to Shutter Island, in pre release, but I was more reminded of Eyes
Wide Shut in terms of mysterious atmosphere.When I review a film, I find it difficult to walk the fine line between
discussing it and revealing spoilers, so I will not say a whole lot
more about this odd film. I do have one final thing to say. I am very
liberal about allowing young people to see films but moms and dads
trust me on this one. Do not allow pre teens to experience this film.
There was a 5 year old at my screening tonight. I told the mom, "Have
fun the next 15 years dealing with how this film affected your son. You
should be ashamed." She told me to go to hell. But seriously parents
heed my advice it will save you tons on therapy, bail, and/or rehab.
