9
*Spoilers* The Master may not convert you but it did convince me

From the first second the movie gets going it becomes clear that Paul
Thomas Anderson's ''The Master'' is not a war movie, it's not an action
flick or comedy although there are some great laughs here and there.
There will always be those who will go into a movie theater no matter
what's being shown, hoping for some orgasmic CGI display coupled with a
plot whose sole purpose is to validate the viewer's basic moral
beliefs.So to give you an idea of what the film is about(spoilers): Freddie
Quell is returning home from the pacific theater in WWII, traumatized
and sick of the world. His attempts to fit into society, moderate his
drinking of dubious potions of alcohol he brews himself, have a normal,
healthy relationship and work as a photographer all fail miserably. He
ends up on a yacht after being forced on the run and meets Lancester
Dodd, The Master and leader of a cult organization called The Cause.
Now this film is obviously partly a critique of Scientology. Hoffman's
got a good resemblance to Hubbard's physique, his character also claims
to be a nuclear physicist and i believe the name ''The Cause'' is a
subtle parody of CoS, the abbreviation most commonly used for The
Church of Scientology.Now although the movie is a satire of CoS and maybe religion in general
i find it to be so much more. It's easy to see the film as simply the
struggle and friendship between Freddie and Dodd, master and slave, yin
and yang. The charismatic and secretive cult leader vs the demented and
aggressive vagabond. If you'd ask me i'd say that the film is mostly
about Freddie after all, there's a very dreamy quality to a lot of the
narrative and it seems PTA is taking his lessons from Kubrick and Lynch
in exploring Freddie's trauma. Freddie's journey from battleship to
cult-commanded yacht, the captain metaphors everywhere(there's even a
small statue of a captain behind a steering wheel on Lancester's desk
near the end of the film), the dream scene and the scene near the end
with Freddie lying on the beach all imply that there's something going
on behind the curtains.Although a lot of the film heavily resembles ''There Will Be Blood'',
this film is(fittingly) more mystical and open to interpretation.
(spoilers) perhaps it's symbolic that Freddie escapes from The Cause in
the desert after serving his master on the sea. There's even a scene
where Lancester refers to him as 'his little soldier' and people
honestly say that the film is pretentious. Really? Even if this whole
art-house thing might turn you off i've got to add that this film's got
some amazing performances, especially from Phoenix. Anyways, if you
don't mind a slow pace and a film that relies on(great) acting instead
of gimmicks i'm sure The Master is something for you, unless perhaps if
it insults your personal beliefs in which case there's nothing this
review will do to change your mind.
