8
A good fun movie with a message of hope

So, before I get to the movie, a word about some of the negative
reviews here. Wow, there are so many! I'm not sure if they saw the same
movie as I did, or if they are all just devoid of a sense of wonder and
fun, but there are an awful lot of people that really disliked this
movie. Of course, when you read their "arguments" (I'll be generous and
call them that), you realize that most of their discontent stems from
the fact that they thought the movie was going to be something else
entirely.I'm one of the most cynical and jaded moviegoers going and I'm always
ready to rip a new celluloid butthole in any film that deserves it, but
this film does not warrant some of the comments here. When I see people
complaining this movie is too violent, or that it isn't a family movie,
or any of the number of bemusing complaints, I wonder if they aren't
exactly the kind of people that this movie warns its viewers about.
Namely, those so obsessed with negativity, that they can't accept
anything that is fun.This movie surprised me, because I had heard bad things about it and it
was, in part, penned by Damon Lindelof, whose work it is fair to say I
find by turns amusing (not in a good way) and irritating. I'm not sure
how much of the story is down to him, but regardless, this counts as
one of his better efforts in my book.So what will you get when you sit down to watch this movie? You'll get
two hours or so of utterly harmless fun, aimed primarily at kids, but
with enough more adult themes in it to entertain the adults among us.
That said, it isn't at all offensive, or violent, and it isn't boring.
It moves along at a decent pace. There are slower moments in it, but
the action scenes move along briskly when they appear, and they appear
quite often. Any violence on display at all is aimed squarely at
robots.There is only one scene where I exclaimed out loud in surprise, because
I wasn't expecting it at all, and that was when the little girl robot
gets hit by a pickup truck out of nowhere. It's a bit of a shock, to be
honest, but she is quickly shown to be unharmed by the incident.
However, it might frighten some younger children for a moment, so be
warned.I think a lot of the negativity this movie has received is down to the
fact that at one point, the bad guy of the film (Hugh Laurie) spells
out just how horrible people are and that their impending doom is
entirely down to their own fault. There is a little speech that
essentially blames people for their own lack of foresight and
bone-idleness, which has led them to the brink of destruction.Now, I normally might find this sort of thing preachy and
condescending, but it fits well in the context of the movie. However,
some people, I think, aren't able to have fun poked at them and seem to
have taken an unnecessary amount of offence at this, and taken it out
on the movie as a whole.Despite this darker tone, the movie as a whole paints a hopeful vision,
showing us that we can change our future if we really want to. The
ending is a little cheesy, but it is a good kind of cheese, with the
message that it is never too late to make a change.Overall, the movie is just a fun flick for kids and their parents.
Older teens might be bored a little, but younger kids will love it. It
isn't meant to be taken too seriously, but just enjoyed for what it is.Oh and for the person that suggested the movie was unsuitable for any
child under fourteen, your kids have my sympathies. Oh my God! Their
lives must be filled with so much cotton wool padding that they are
perpetually on the verge of smothering to death. Good job!SUMMARY: Way more fun than its rating would have you believe. Generally
harmless entertainment of a family nature. Don't take the negativity
seriously, because the movie never takes itself seriously. Its fun,
that's all there is to it.
