7
One of the most original horror films of recent years American Mary is a darkly comic gore-fest about revenge and back-street body modification.

One of the most original horror films of recent years American Mary is
a darkly comic gore- fest about revenge and back-street body
modification.Mary (Katherine Isabelle) is a promising and dedicated medical student
who, like all students at one point or another in their studies, falls
foul of financial difficulty. Lured into the world of body modification
by the handsome prices offered by weirdos with a desire to make
themselves more unique, Mary finds a way to continue her studies whilst
earning some pretty good money. Wrongly assumed to have become a
prostitute by her creepy professor she is invited to a sleazy surgeons
party unaware that he has ulterior motives that make her new found
profession start to take over her life.American Mary is one of few horror films that's focus is on the female
character's strength. Mary goes from being a hardworking model student
to a psychotic body modification surgeon in a seedy strip club where
she originally auditioned to work. The transformation from quiet
student to headstrong surgical dominatrix after being violated is both
empowering and contradictory of the traditional representation of women
in horror. Katherine Isabelle is as charismatic as she is beautiful and
she completely owns the character. She maintains an air of mystery
which makes you constantly question her intentions towards the people
she meets and her performance will keep you on your toes.Darkly comedic and completely twisted American Mary is one damn good
reason for women in the media to be more prevalent in the horror genre;
there's no fluff in this film, no cliché crap and very little
predictability. It has no eye-roll moments of exploitation and
Isabelle's performance is empowering for women as well as easy on the
eye for the men; a good balance that excludes neither gender from the
audience like so many horror films do. The Soska sisters show their
love for the horror genre and its brutality but also its more sexy side
(which is weird considering all the blood, but there we go!) and
American Mary is clearly a labour of love and not just some uncared for
cliché torture porn that's been churned out as a money maker. The
settings are seedy and dark and the sleazy underbelly of society is
well portrayed but in an almost desirable fashion that enables us to
see how easy it is for Mary to get sucked in to this world where money
comes easily if you're willing to leave your comfort zone.If you can ignore the occasionally questionable performances American
Mary is an all round brilliant horror film that sucks you in to this
brutal, seedy, sexy universe for 100 minutes and refuses to let your
attention slip. What happens to Mary's professor is as genius as it is
disturbing, but you will have to watch to find out for yourself.
