9
A nasty 9/10 for oculus!

No folks, I'm not jumping on the bandwagon here. This film really is
that good. The beauty of the film is it's way of telling the story. The way the
film jumps from past to present is just so well done. It not only tells
the story in an interesting way, it also compliments the main theme of
the film. Not knowing what's reality or fantasy. While I applaud the
movie for this it also affects the movie in a negative way. At some
points the story is getting so intense and interesting and then BLAM!
Back to the past. Relieving all tension that was built up in the
previous scene. But then again it leaves you in suspense, waiting for
it to return to the present to see how things are going to go down. All
in all it's just a very unique and tension building way to tell this
interesting story.The acting in the film is top notch in my opinion. The entire cast
gives strong performances, and you actually care about the well being
of these characters. The only character I didn't care to much for was
Kaylee's fiancée. But I felt that particular character wasn't a main
focus point for the story so it didn't affect the film in the
slightest. The film also has some very creepy and dark imagery that really sends
chills down your spine. The ghostly images projected by the mirror are
indeed scary and do give you an uneasy feeling for sure. There are a
few jump scares that actually did catch me off guard and are well done.
Before each jump scare there is a buildup of tension so that when the
scare hits you, it actually hits you. The lighting is great and so is
the sound and musical score. The movie isn't heavy on gore or special
FX but that's not a big issue at all. The story doesn't call for
buckets of blood anyways. There really isn't much I can say that was bad about this movie because
it really is a horror gem. A real slow burner that messes with your
mind and sucks you into its cool storyline of the supernatural. I'd
give it an outstanding score of 9/10, if you're a horror fan check this
one out!
