1
One of the worst and boring Disney films period!

I have not seen every Disney Pixar film. The ones I have watched are
the Toy Story films, Monsters Inc and it's sequel Monster University, a
Bugs Life, Cars, Finding Nemo & The Incredibles. The ones I have not
seen are Wall-e, Ratouttlie, Brave, Cars 2 and The Good Dinosaur. Most
of the ones I seen were either great or not bad. My favourite Disney
film is the Lion King followed by the Jungle Book (1967) and Pinocchio.
But this film is one of the worst and boring Disney films I have ever
seen!The film is about a little girl named Riley who moves to a new home in
San Franscisco after her dad gets a new job and her mind is controlled
by a group of creatures known as 'emotions' who get her through
everyday life but two of them Joy and Sadness end up in the bowls of
Riley's mind where old memories are stored and without them especially
Joy Riley's life is misery at home and school.This film was just awful. This film may be family friendly but the film
is nothing like a film for children. There is very little comedy and is
more adult-themed than the other Pixar films. It is my opinion also
that this film shares similarities to Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs,
The Exorcist and The Land Before Time. Like in Snow White the emotions
have names matching that of their personality. For example Joy is all
happy and optimistic while Sadness is like Eeyore by being downright
miserable. Like Regan McNeil of The Exorcist Riley is processed in her
mind but by the emotions and not a demon named Pazuzu while her parents
and presumably everyone in the film are also processed by emotions. The
film's sub plot where Joy and Sadness try to get back to headquarters
is a throwback to the Land Before Time where Littlefoot and his friends
try to find the Great Valley. I also felt the film was rushed and none of the characters apart from
Riley, Joy and Sadness get much screen time. Even Anger, Fear and
Disgust hardly get involved in the film. Disgust arguably was the
emotion who got demoted to extra.The film was as I said rubbish and how people loved this film has left
me stumped. To me this film does not deserve a sequel as this film is
just not good enough for one.
