4
One Quarter Stone, Three Quarters Bullshit

In Mr. Stone's "Platoon," brutal, direct Barnes and mellow, intelligent
Elias battle for Charlie Sheen's mortal soul. Whether familiar or pet,
Mr. Stone plumbs the theme again in "Savages." Unfortunately "Savages"
glides into a land far, far away from "Platoon."The predominate feeling from "Savages" is it was about a Hollywood
deal. Mr. Stone not only phoned in a (co-telephoned) script but the
direction as well. His renowned editorial and textural format tricks
fail to enhance the storytelling as in "Natural Born Killers." Here,
they are plugged in to assuage any fears "Savages" might not be a Stone
film. Casting adds to the feel-of-the-deal. Bluntly, Ms. Lively would
never exit a paper bag were she to depend upon her acting to do so.
Kitsch and Johnson are directly behind her. Mr. Travolta chews the
scenery like he's in a high school production supporting role. Ms
Hayek, at least, turns in a good performance.Given the 24 Hour news cycle's coverage of the Mexican-American drug
war, it's difficult to dramatize an inherently insane subject. Little
effort is needed to find chilling video of men hanging upside down like
a side of beef being castrated with a dull knife. The corruption
greasing the drug distribution wheels as they travel to El Norte is
also common knowledge. That leaves the need for a personal story about
these purveyors, or at least a new slant (save a female Cartel leader).
All that is missing in the pulpy and broad "Savages."On the Pulp: early on it's clear the typically amazing Mr. Del Toro's
performance is derived from Silent's mustachioed villains. Later he
actually twirls his mustache. At this point there was an expectation,
"Nyah-Ha-Ha," would pass his lips.The "Savages" cast and Mr. Stone recently sat for an interview on PBS'
"Charlie Rose." The usually garrulous Mr Stone said nary a word about
this story, which, in case you're interested, goes something like this:
a female-led Cartel, losing money, sets out to swallow smaller players,
including one growing 'Primo'. The business is high-tech and run by two
high school buddies: a tough physically and emotionally scarred Ex-SEAL
(Barnes) who served in the Middle East and a granola-eating college boy
(Dual Major - Botany and Business) who wants to save the world (Elias).
The woman they share is kidnapped when Butch and Sundance (Ms. Lively
actually refers to them as such, paints herself as Etta Place and
doesn't want to be around when they die) insult the Cartel Queen. Ms.
Lively differentiates them as "one likes to f@&k, the other makes
love." And the Ex-SEAL has 'wargasms'????Guess the story's path and how many bodies fall.In a punk opening scene, Ms. Lively's voice-over drives a flashback and
leaves open her fate by story's end. This sets up an insulting,
gimmicky twist ending that's also punk and not to be spoiled. Throw
your own Milk Duds at the screen.Among too few, "Savages" saving grace is the Political subtext the
left-leaning, axe-grinding Mr. Stone loves to incorporate. Anywhere
along in "Savages" merely substitute the words Afghanistan or Iraq for
Mexico. Here, however, Mr. Stone's political restraint works against
"Savages."The other small savior of this disappointing film is the universally
held belief others are savages. A brutal killer, a Mexican, believes
the Americans are savages because they share a woman. The Americans
believe the Mexicans are savages because they decapitate people just
because it's Tuesday. A closer look at the great cultural differences
separated by a common border is also AWOL.Action fans may get their fix from "Savages." There is sick brutality,
double-dealing and lots of bang bang. There just isn't enough glue in
between to hold it together or give it some meaning. And that's the
fault of the usually spot-on-relevant Mr. Stone.Don't spend your bread. This dog will be on Netflix by September.
