8
Sweet but not exactly a romance in the traditional sense.

While reading up on "The Vow", I learned that professional reviewers
didn't particularly care for this film. The same can be said for many
of the IMDb reviews. While I would disagree, since I really enjoyed the
film, I can certainly understand some of the dislike. For folks wanting
a traditional romantic film, "The Vow" isn't exactly a date movie. A
traditional date film has a formula--including a happy ending. And,
oddly, the film ends on a hopeful but vague note--disappointing those
needing the happy finale.In addition to reading up on the reviews, I also looked into the story
of Kimand Krickitt Carpenter--the couple whose real life story inspired
this film. I say inspires because so much of the film is fictional and
the religious faith of the Carpenters was omitted in "The Vow". It's
sad, as although you don't want a preachy film, it's odd how in films
today there is NO reference to God or almost none and this might have
been an interesting addition to the movie.Now on to the film. The story, if you don't know, is about a newly
married couple who are in a terrible traffic accident. Leo (Channing
Tatum) is okay but his wife, Paige (Rachel McAdams) is left in a coma.
Oddly, when she awakens, she has a strange sort of amnesia where the
most recent portion of her life is missing. This means she has no idea
who her husband is and their time together is, naturally, quite
uncomfortable and awkward. At the same time, Paige's no longer existent
relationship with her parents is suddenly given a second chance and
they work hard to recapture her love and make her the girl she used to
be. What will become of poor Leo? The two leads, McAdams and Tatum were quite good in the film and easy
to watch. The script rather clever and enjoyable. And, overall I have
very little negative to say about the film. Well worth seeing--just be
forewarned that although there is a lot of romance in the film, it is
not at all traditional or what you might expect from such a movie.
