2
Another overrated movie from marvel

So , I was yesterday to see this "big" movie, which has a rating of
8.7, close to "The lord of the rings" movies, the same as "Matrix" or
"Inception" and even better than "Seven" or "Usual suspects". It should
be good right? Doesn't matter that Marvel made only crap movies, most
of them anyway, with a few exceptions, some of the first Spiderman
movies and some X-men movies, maybe they nailed it this time.So, the movie starts and after the first scenes, we see our hero on an
abandoned planet, dancing as he goes to collect the item he came for.
He is not thinking that while he is listening music at his headset,
someone may be nearby. Anyway, he got what he came for, and the scene
is very similar to the one in Indiana Jones. No surprise, this entire
movie is a rip -off of other movies, you have you hero which is a
smuggler and becomes one of the good guys (Star wars), you have a pair,
a raccoon and a tree, only the raccoon understands the tree (Star
wars), again, our hero out of the nowhere falls in love with the
female(again.... Star wars), only in Star Wars, the process was more
real and more fun. Also, like other Marvel movies, the characters do
illogical actions in the most important moments. Gomora after she
fights to the death with her sister trying to cut the power, tries to
save her when her sister was holding on the edge of the ship, while
Peter Quill and the others were waiting for Gomora to cut the damn
power. Another stupid moment was when Ronan, at last he lands, but he
doesn't destroy the planet, the thing he wanted the most to do, no, he
looks at our hero dancing... speechless... And how did Drax survived
when he and Ronan are hit by a ship at full speed, piloted by raccoon?So, Guardians of the galaxy is a movie full of meaningless special
effects, explosions after explosions, characters that are poorly
written, actors that don't act very well, a poor script and ideas
borrowed from other movies.Conclusion, another boring movie by Marvel, highly over rated, I don't
know how, I think Marvel fans are overzealous or the people are just
getting dumber day by day.You wanna see a good sci-fi movie, watch any of the Star Wars movies.
