10
More to offer than a controversial premise

A fascinating, intellectual and profound exploration of the psyches of
four uniquely damaged characters: two boys who never quite left the
womb, growing up in a small and affluent community far removed from
reality, with one father figure MIA, the other passive and
disconnected, and only their mothers for comfort and company; and two
women, who never conquered their fears of aging or their struggles with
self-esteem and sexual confidence, and whose intimate love for each
other and need to feel young and desired manifest themselves in
dangerous liaisons with each other's sons. The premise is disturbing and unrealistic but a major strength of the
film is that the characters' actions feel believable and
understandable: but never condoned or really condemned. We are given
such insight into their island-like community, their lifestyles, their
dynamics and their psyches that it's perfectly clear why they fall into
these simultaneously symbiotic and parasitic relationships. There is a
nuance and an apathy to the directing that encourage the audience to
focus more on the "how" and "why" rather than the "what." The film is
never sexy or erotic because there is so much loneliness, pain and
desperation in the sex scenes. The ocean metaphors strengthen the
storytelling but never overwhelm it, and there is one particularly
profound scene when Watts and Wright's granddaughters are lifted out of
the very water that pulled them under and destroyed them. The film lags around the mid-point, once the quartet has fallen into a
rhythm and so there is no more conflict or tension, but picks up again
once their group dynamic and Watts' character's happiness are
threatened. The ending is disconcerted and unexpected, but on
reflection, given the film's themes and the characters' self-
destructiveness, it couldn't have convincingly ended any other way. Wright and Watts do career-best work here (people who think Watts is
often overwrought will like her here, I think) - both give understated
but incredibly complex performances and create living, breathing,
three- dimensional people out of these initially unbelievable women.
Their guilt, neediness and agony are ever-present in their eyes even as
the characters try to remain composed and rational. The boys aren't
given as much to do but Xavier Samuel perfectly captures the confidence
and faux-invulnerability of adolescence. It's also the first time Watts
has laughed on screen in what must be years now, which is nice to see!Overall, in spite of some silly dialogue, it's riveting, labyrinthine,
and unique - it's been a very long time since an English-language film
explored female sexuality and psychology as intimately and impartially
as this one does. It feels more at home with 90's French dramas like La
belle noiseuse and La cérémonie than it does in 2013. I'm not entirely
surprised it's received such a hateful and crude reaction online, but
it has a lot more to offer than a controversial setting, and I hope
audiences will be able to look past the premise and see it not as an
"issue film" but as the perceptive and devastating character study that
it really is.
