6
Battle Royale in an office, meh.

This review of The Belo Experiment is spoiler free*** (3/5)BEFORE HE CLEANED his writing for the family-friendly blockbuster
Guardians of the Galaxy (both volumes), writer-director James Gunn
conducted the script to The Belko Experiment. A horror slasher/whodunit
thriller. Both forming the two sides of Gunn, however before he had
blockbusting scripture he was known as a horror writer, writing and
directing the dark, Slither, and the uncompromisingly silly Super. This
perhaps brought influence to Zack Snyder for Watchmen. For this Gunn
left the directing to Wolf Creek's Greg McLean, making this a winning
combination between writer and director and for a while at least it
succeeds.Plot wise, it's The Hunger Games franchise meets The Purge, happily
there are few things this has in common with them, merciless rules, a
time limit to kill and intriguing characterization. Not only does the
company but also the title of the film itself screams government, a
huge of security, a locked gate and a tall building a mile from
civilization. There's a menacing company boss (Tony Goldwyn), who will
do anything to keep his workers calm but when it comes to it he
sacrifices others. And just on the outside in an abandoned hanger there
is a team of tight-knit killers who have clever gadgets, with buttons
and names of the employees and an unknown voice announcing a game of
kill or be killed, the most satisfying part; there a whole bunch of
people that are killed from micro chipped bombs. Theoretically the exploding head technique works for a while, it's
stunning to look at (in a merciless way) but after a while it becomes
monotonous, painting rooms with blood and skull remnants all over the
floor. There are changes in the killing strategy that come slightly too
late though in some cases later is better, here that works when players
are used as cannon fodder, perhaps leading the film to a predictable
end but it's thrilling all the same. On the other hand Gunn is a
wonderful writer, his screenplay is clever, has some silly moments but
that's what made his blockbuster good, because it had silly moments.
There is a bunch of that here, while for most of the time it stays
mostly serious, implementing a balanced screenplay. Even though practically everything you see here has been done before,
the merciless killings and the player panic The Belko Experiment is a
surprisingly enjoyable thriller with a lot of polished cred (the writer
and the director), the style and the solid performances.VERDICT: A brutally, bloody Battle Royale that gives tension, style and
a lot of cred. That glides along nicely through, until a disappointing
dip in the second half. Still, there are plenty of positive points, the
brutal violence, the polished style and the solid performances to
enjoy.
