10
mind blowing on an intellectual level

THIS FILM IS INTENDED TO SHRED APART YOUR PRECONCEPTIONS!!! Do not go
into watching this film with the idea that you are watching a tragedy.
You may not connect with the majority of the characters. They may not
feel entirely three dimensional. You may not empathise with them and
you are not intended to. It is extraordinarily true that you do not get
what you expected from the trailer of this film. However, what you will
get will most definitely blow your mind whether you appreciate the
artistry of such postmodern blurring of genres or not. It is important
to note that many of the critics (but by all means all) whom have given
bad reviews to this film, do not entirely understand the essence of
genre itself. Whilst the Aristotelian theory of genre concludes that
genre is a fixed ridged entity, whereby texts must possess specific
content, form or features in order to belong to a selected genre,
modern theorists understand that genre cannot be a fixed entity as
these conventions are too narrow to classify all texts under. Genre is
an extremely dynamic concept and changes or evolves along with it's
context. Therefore, genre now - as a taxonomy of works - classifies
texts according to their intended purpose, recurring priori actions as
well as it's relationship with it's audience. Whilst The Dressmaker may
initially present itself as a western film or even a Gothic film, this
does not mean that the film is in that genre! The Dressmaker is a
COMEDY. Indeed it possesses many MODES of other genres, however, the
film intends to SATIRISE the attitudes modeled by many in 1950's
Australia. And this - my dear friends ... and foe - is EXTREMELY
CLEVERLY DONE!!!!! I have read many reviews of this film whereby the responder has said
something along the lines of "this film doesn't even know what it is"
or "The mix of genres is a mess" oblivious to the fact that this is the
intended purpose of the film. The film combines elements of many genres
and sub-genres including Gothic, western, thriller, crime, horror,
tragedy, comedy, farce, satire, slapstick and black humour just to
pinpoint a few. As a satire, the film uses absurd humour to highlight
major issues within this 1950's society. Issues such as abuse of power,
rape, deceit, sexuality, misogyny and hypocritical attitudes. The
post-war 1950's is ostensibly known as a fruitful decade however
Jocelyn offers a far more ignominious perspective on a time that was
tainted with misogyny and hypocrisy, and the extend those guilty of
such behaviours would go to in oder to save face. The essence of satire
is to make you laugh as an audience and then make you question what you
are laughing at! Whilst many have thought that this could only be the
work of an uneducated lunatic, this mixture of generic modes is a
quintessential example of the blurring lines between genres and adds an
element of shock to narrative. The technique is intended to add an
distinct absurdism to the storyline, and the deficiencies of the gross
caricatures that are the townsfolk are distorted in order to draw
attention to the cultural or social issues within society that are
still contextually relevant today! Yes, the film exposes relics or
icons that were not relevant to it's contextual time-frame, however
these are intentional! They are supposed to make you question why the
director has included them! Like how these issues are still relevant
today on some level. Remember that everything placed in a film is
intended to depict SOMETHING. I am an 18 year old year 12 student currently studying the notion of
Genre in Extension 1 English, and this movie literally blew me away! It
is just so so so so clever! Like the way it includes familiar or
traditional narratives such as the revenge plot of a western film or
ugly duck makeover of Gertrude Pratt, to then take those familiar
narratives in an ENTIRELY different direction, so that just when you
believe you know what to expect, you are presented with something
completely different. Or the way the characters names perfectly reflect
their personalities. Mayor "PETTYman" etc. What is even more
interesting to me is the set design, looking like an imposed western
saloon set on an Australian outback scene. This almost gives the
impression that we are witnessing some kind of bizarre human
experiment. This is intended to distance the audience from the
characters. None is quiet life-like enough to be relatable, except for
Tilly and Molly Dunnage and perhaps Teddy. However, whilst tragedy is
intended to make the audience empathise with multiple characters,
comedy does not require this. Therefore the audience is supposed to
feel obscured from many of the caricatures in the film, and they are
not supposed to be realistic or relatable, rather they represent an
ideology, attitude or perspective. It is this distance between the
audience and the characters that allows the audience to make their own
distinctions about the insane situations that occur within the film. I could ramble endlessly about this film and it's effect on me, however
instead I will just give a word of warning: When watching this film be
aware of it's social and cultural context. Be aware of that which it is
drawing your attention to, not only within the film but in the wider
world. Be aware that the acting is exquisite that each character is
intended to elicit a response from you. but most of all...be prepared.
Be prepared to laugh, to question, to cry, to scoff and to be utterly
shocked or even horrified. This film is an utterly beautiful piece of
genius. Enjoy it thoroughly....or don't.
