5
Who Should Be The One Counseling?

Normally, I fully appreciate bleak films with utterly despicable
characters that leave you thinking rather than leaving the theater with
a smile on your face, joyous to the fact that the hero saved the day
yet again. Sorry, that's not my kind of story as overdone as it is. I
prefer brutal realism where humanity is depicted in a much less phony
manner. That's exactly what The Counselor promises as its characters
take fairly regrettable paths- flawed people that make mistakes in a
criminal environment. Some are more oblivious to it (or outright
merciless), and some are much more humane in their methods. At first
glance, it seems as if it's impossible for The Counselor to be proved a
disappointment from the looks of its amazing cast (the likes of Michael
Fassbender, Javier Bardem, Cameron Diaz, Brad Pitt, and Penelope Cruz),
exceptional director with a credible resume, and a totally prestigious
author signed on for his first screenplay. In addition, it appears to
be a crime thriller, which definitely commences my adrenaline rush
because it's personally my favorite genre. Unfortunately, this film is a perfect example of "don't judge a book by
its cover" (whether positively or negatively; people just love
positivism so they usually associate the idiom with negativism). To
simply put it, the story is a complete mess right from the start. We
have our main character who goes by "Counselor" (played by one of my
favorites, Michael Fassbender) confusingly dropped into this situation.
How did he end up in this predicament? Why did he choose to pursue such
a perilous and illicit path? Basically, the movie never explains
anything. You're left in wonderment, attempting to figure out who is on
whose side. Who wants to kill them exactly? Characters end up in random
places, and the story never even bothers to explain how the two
characters even know each other. The script just conveniently places
two movie stars in one scene without an effectively developed context
to service it. What follows are countless scenes where characters
engage in conversation, vaguely discussing the circumstances. The dialogue also feels vastly strange because the characters don't
talk like actual people do in reality. Their speech sounds quite
literary as they spout metaphor after metaphor, coupled with complex
vocabulary. With that being said, I had no issue with it at first. In
that, I mean I held no issue with the style of speech. What I did have
an issue with was the way the characters spoke in a way that fully
befuddled the viewers. It's like only the characters are in on it the
entire way without the audience's understanding. In essence, it makes
for an inconvenient and confusing experience. Speaking of the cast, Javier Bardem was really the only one that stood
out to me. Frankly, Cameron Diaz had me bewildered. She's supposed to
be from Barbados with an accent- See, I wasn't even sure whether she
was sporting an accent or not. At times, it felt like she had an accent
going on, and then in other moments, she was speaking fluent and clear
English; so I have no idea what was going on there. Even then, the film
could've easily hidden all these flaws by presenting us with a
thrilling and suspenseful plot, but it actually turned out to be
incredibly uneventful. The scope didn't feel as exciting as it was
supposed to be, and it definitely wasted an incredible amount of
potential. So yes, I'm absolutely saddened; this was one of my most
anticipated films of this year, if not my most anticipated, and it
ended up falling embarrassingly flat. There were a few disturbingly violent scenes that boosted the film's
tone, for lack of a better term, literally, and reminded us of the
excellence of No Country for Old Men. You're also met with an
outrageous sex scene that's equally disturbing and sexy for some, and
those scenes might be the only snippets of The Counselor remembered
down the road. The ending was also not very reassuring, cutting to the
credits unexpectedly shortly after another monotonous and ambiguous
conversation. The only decent element of this movie was its soundtrack,
but then again, its quality could've just been determined in comparison
to the oddity and nuisance that the rest of the film consisted of. In
sum, the best way to describe The Counselor is "brutally unsatisfying."
I felt no sense of satisfaction by the time it drew to a close, and
everything simply felt so meaningless and forgettable. There's no
question that it left a bad taste in my mouth, and I sincerely hope
that Ridley Scott ups his game sometime soon.
