3
I Expected Something Better

This is supposed to be a comedy - but the major problem with this is
that it just isn't very funny. It seemed to have potential. It's about
a family (headed by Robert de Niro, who in my opinion seemed a little
old for the part) who are in the witness protection program because dad
(De Niro) has ratted out his former Mafia family. First - I wondered
about the FBI stashing them in France? France? It just seems
implausible to me that France would be host for an FBI witness
protection program. But OK. It's a comedy. I can live with that. It was
supposed to be about the challenges of the family fitting in with
French society. That actually could have been funny - but it wasn't. At
times it was violent, at times it was quite boring. But it was really
never particularly funny. The whole family (including Michelle Pfeiffer
as the mom, Dianna Agron as the daughter and John D'Leo as the son)
just more or less continues on with their mob upbringing and lifestyle,
with not much of an attempt that I could see to fit in. Tommy Lee Jones
was added as the head of the FBI team responsible for them. So the cast
is good and capable and should be able to pull of comedy - because
they've done it before. But it just didn't work.I'll concede that while it may not have been funny, there was a bit of
a "cute" moment when De Niro's character goes to a local film festival
and watched "Goodfellas." Although, in all honesty, that might have
been a bit too cute. The final scenes (where the mob shows up in the
little town - more than half a dozen of them, which strikes me as a bit
of overkill, but then again I'm not a mob boss) aren't too bad. They
seem to be an attempt on the part of director Luc Besson to add some
action into the movie. As I said, those closing scenes aren't bad - but
one of the problems is that I never felt that Besson had a handle on
what genre of movie he was supposed to be making. Perhaps (if you take
away some of the nonsense) the film manages to give you a sense of how
frustrating it must be to be in a witness protection program -
constantly moving; constantly looking over your shoulder for whoever
might be out to get you.Basically, I expected more from a movie with a promising plot and such
a collection of names in the cast. But if I ever feel the need again to
watch a movie about how hard it is for outsiders with a secret to keep
to fit in, I'll stick to "Coneheads." (3/10)
