8
Incredible directing and cinematography in this abstract art film

It seems that, after the massive success of Drive, Refn is being given
the opportunity to make the films he wants to make and take a lot of
creative license.I think this is a good thing, and it's a smart way to go about a career
in any creative industry. Achieve mainstream success doing things that
are commercially viable, and when you have people's attention and
trust, you can do something more abstract and creative and people will
actually go see it with an open mind, and quite possibly love it. Another example of this is a band like Radiohead, they put out "Creep"
which is a perfect radio single, and when that got them famous, they
went and made albums that would never have been produced or listened to
if they had done them straight away. This is a cool movie. It's not for everyone. The editing, camera work,
framing, pace, screenplay, lighting, production design, wardrobe... all
the creative elements of this film have a modern, stylistic feel that
seems ahead of it's time. It's the type of movie you may want to tell
all your friends is your "favorite" even if it's not, just to make
yourself look cool (haha.. sad but true)The plot is very abstract, and contains a lot of elements of
surrealism. Refn reminds me of film-makers like David Lynch or Terry
Gilliam or even Salvador Dali. I like that he took a risk and really
went with his vision to make a film that could never have mainstream
appeal. It is a piece of art, and left open to interpretation. The
whole thing may be a dream, or an alternate reality, or some
combination of these with real life. The production design and framing and editing made me feel things and
think things and imagine things. It seemed to be trying to take me on a
journey through space and time while telling an intoxicating story that
was an allusion to the real world. It helps to be in the right state both mentally and physically for a
movie like this. It's the type of movie you want to watch in a very
dark room, on a very comfortable couch, with a big screen and a great
surround sound system. Then you can prepare to get lost in the film and
experience it as a whole, instead of just watching it.I definitely can't watch movies like this everyday, and while it is a
great exercise in expanding your mind, being creative, and thinking
abstract thoughts, it may seem boring on the wrong day. A cool thing about movies like this, is the re-watch-ability of them.
Most movies are best the first time you see them, and don't offer much
for a repeated viewing. This is the type of movie that can be watched
many times. The experience will be different each time and you may
notice or realize things you didn't see the first time. It reminds me of David Lynch and his movie "Mulholland Drive." I really
love that movie and it is similar in the way that people love it or
hate it. With "Mulholland Drive," I watched it many times, and grew to
understand it on my own terms, which was a fun journey.I do hope that Reft doesn't decide to continue making movies that are
always this abstract. Often times, I watch movies with a great plot,
that are very entertaining films, but wish the director and
cinematographer had been more creative with the lighting and camera
work. Seeing his style and eye applied to mainstream blockbusters and
thrillers would be really cool in my opinion, but I doubt he will ever
go too far into directing movies with a typical "Hollywood" script.
After the success of "Mulholland Drive," Lynch continued to make
exclusively dreamy, abstract movies, and while I respected that, it
just didn't seem necessary.Go check this movie out with an open mind on a night when you are
relaxed and feeling good. Maybe watch it with some friends and have a
good conversation afterward sharing thoughts and interpretations; I'm
sure they will vary radically. You might love it, and you might hate
it, but I think most people will respect the artistry of the film and
have trouble forgetting it anytime soon.
