9
Goodbye Christopher Robin: Grown Men Will Cry!

Based on fact, a biography set in 3 distinct time periods, World War1
jumps to the 1930's and then World War2.The beginning examines the horrors of war, A. A. Milne fought in World
War 1, when returning home we see how he's traumatised and still
suffering from shell-shock, demonstrated by disturbing flashbacks
triggered when a car backfires or a balloon bursting. The film follows the origin of the classic book 'Winnie the Pooh', how
it was created, how it was inspired by the author's son and toys.
Portrays how we might imagine middle class England was at that time.
There is an obviously frosty, distant relationship between AA Milne and
his son, you'll probably be surprised how gloomy the family's home-life
really was. A.A Milne was already a successful journalist and playwright, but his
war experiences motivates him to write an anti-war book, he moves the
family to the country to concentrate on this. They take on a nanny
(Olive) who builds a close relationship with their son. Unfortunately the author suffers with writers block and this results in
his wife selfishly moving back to London until he can get his head in
order and write again. The wife is a very un-likable irritating
character, there was nothing redeeming about her personality! With the wife away the film becomes so much more interesting when the
father starts to pay attention to his son and a friendship develops,
this unlocks A. A. Milne's imagination. The book is written at a time
when the population needed uplifting, and the book does that
splendidly. The book and his son quickly become a worldwide success,
although the sudden fame has a negative effect.The older version of the son is sent to boarding school and is
constantly bullied until the students are conscripted to World War2.
Unfortunately the son fails the army physical / medical although his
burning ambition is to go to war, so he asks his father to pull strings
to get him in and he does. We see the son in military uniform leaving
on the train but soon a telegram 'missing in action-presumed dead' is
unfolded.This is where many of the audience pulled out their tissues.I would not recommend this film for children, the very emotional WW2
scenes makes this probably not suitable for a young audience.
