5
Inconsistent laughs in a comedy of parental duty

Penned by the writers of "The Hangover" (Jon Lucas and Scott Moore),
this was a film I went into with really, really low expectations. But
it was better than I expected it to be.Mila Kunis (which we already know means "Fine" in Navajo) plays Amy, a
normal working Mum (albeit clearly living in a hugely affluent
neighbourhood) with a no-good husband and two kids. Amy is at the end
of her tether, and as parents haven't we all been there? After one
particularly dreadful day she uncharacteristically heads for a bar and
forms a firm friendship with hen-pecked wife and Mum Kiki (an excellent
Kristen Bell) and the potty-mouthed and kick-ass Carla (Kathryn Hahn).
Making a pact to not follow convention they decide to be "Bad Moms"
which brings them into direct conflict with Gwendoline ("Anchorman"'s
Christina Applegate), the tyrannical head of the school Parent Teacher
Association and her fawning sidekicks Stacy (Jada Pinkett Smith,
"Matrix" sequels) and Vicky (Annie Mumulo, "Bridesmaids"). As attacks
get personal, Amy is forced into standing against Gwendoline for the
PTA chair and a battle royale ensues.From the film's publicity, I expected this to be a "3 go mad in Vegas"
style of romp, but it didn't head in that direction. True that there is
one very funny and well-cut scene of craziness in a supermarket ("Kids,
we're going to have to find a new supermarket"), but the film has a
more thoughtful tone reflecting as it does the stresses on working
parents exacerbated by the need to conform to social mores.It would be dangerous at this point for me, as a man, to appear sexist
and misogynist, so I will quote (and credit) my wife here in commenting
that the film is like a "Next Generation" movie to 1987's Diane Keaton
vehicle "Baby Boom". In that film Keaton's character has to juggle a
corporate working life with unexpected child rearing: something still
relatively unusual in those days (yes folks, things have changed a LOT
for the better in 30 years). "Bad Moms" skims forward to today when
being a working parent is almost a given, but the characters in the
film view that maybe that swing has gone too far - that there is not
enough time for them to treasure and nurture their kids. Here the film
does slip into sexist territory in featuring all the struggling "Moms"
as predominantly female: the one single Dad (hunk and love interest Jay
Hernandez) never seems stressed or out of his depth.So, there is a good concept in here, but to be honest it is not
particularly well executed. Given that it is supposed to be a comedy,
the limited laughs supplied are well distributed throughout the film.
It's more of a smile-along than a laugh-along.The film is also pretty inconsistent in tone, flipping as it does from
the leads being "Bad Moms" to being lovey-dovey "aren't my kids
adorable"parents. For a UK audience I would suggest that there is way,
WAY too much sickly hugging of kids going on. And - without spoilers -
the denouement at the ending is far from satisfying.On the plus side, it is technically well delivered, and looks like
bloody Shakespeare compared to the truly execrable "Dirty Grandpa". The
editing is slick and the music choice and music editing is particularly
good. Some of the performances - especially those of Bell and Hahn -
are great. And a particular nod to young Oona Laurence as Amy's
daughter who carries her part really nicely.In terms of the lead, Mila Kunis wouldn't seem to be a natural choice
for a comedy part, although her performance is kookily watchable (that
might just be the "fine" influence on me). A low point however is a
post-sex scene where Kunis appears to have been watching ABC News
rather than doing any sort of strenuous horizontal jogging (not that my
wife noticed this as she was MUCH too distracted by who was acting on
the other side of the bed). If anyone puts together a top 10 of
unconvincing movie sex scenes, this is a strong contender.Comedies are very personal things. Might this one be right for you? I
would suggest that if you are not a parent, you should probably skip it
and wait for the TV showing - - many of the situations are those that
only parents who've been through the more hellish moments of child
rearing will relate to! It's also not for the very prudish. There is a
lot of bad language, a bit of nudity and drug references, although it
doesn't quite descend to the same gross-out level comedy of "The
Hangover" or a Farrelly brothers film.A final shout-out to the goofy final credits, done in "When Harry Met
Sally" style, where the actresses real mothers talk about whether they
were good mum's or not. (Cue more hugging).(Please visit http://bob-the-movie-man.com to see the graphical version
of this review, and to make comment. Thanks.).
