9
A heartbreaking love story.

The Danish Girl is a movie loosely based on the life of Danish artists,
Einar Wegener/Lili Elbe(Eddie Redmayne) & Gerda Wegener(Alicia
Vikander). Einar & Gerda are a happily married couple. Einar is the
more accomplished artist, between the two of them. Gerda paints
portraits & Einar paints landscapes. Gerda is frustrated because her
portraits don't get sold, quite as often as she would like them to. One
day, she makes Einar dress up like a woman. Gerda does this because,
she wants to paint a portrait of Einar as a woman. Gerda & Einar come
up with the name Lili Elbe, for Einar's alter ego. Gerda's Lili
portraits are a huge success. What Gerda did not expect is, Einar feels
extremely drawn to Lili & sinks more & more into Lili's personality as
the days go by. The Danish Girl is a fantastic film! The love shared between Gerda &
Einar has been depicted beautifully, by director Tom Hooper. It is gut
wrenching to see Gerda slowly lose her husband, as Einar soon realizes
that Lili Elbe is, who he was always meant to be. Apart from the
flawless & poignant story, this film has showcased exotic locales.
Copenhagen & Paris, where the majority of the movie takes place, have
been showcased beautifully. The performances are the highlight of the
movie. Alicia Vikander is spectacular as Gerda Wegener. Vikander's
multifaceted portrayal of her character, is the best part of the film.
Eddie Redmayne is brilliant as Einar Wegener/Lili Elbe. Redmayne
emulates the gait & mannerisms of a woman, to the T. Redmayne gives
another memorable performance after The Theory of Everything(2014).
However, Alicia Vikander outshines Eddie Redmayne, in every way
possible. She carries the emotional weight of the film, on her
shoulders. Amber Heard is impressive as Ulla. Ben Whishaw is great as
Henrik. Matthias Schoenaerts is superb as Hans Axgil. Sebastian Koch is
awesome as Warnekros. The supporting cast is good too. The Danish Girl
is a must watch. It's an inspiration to transgender people, all over
the world.
