6
Entertaining true-life tale that doesn't have the nerve to go all the way

There were many shocking and quite unbelievable stories to emerge from
the U.S. during the Bush/Cheney administration, but none were quite as
fantastical as the overwhelming position 20-something minor-league arms
dealers Efraim Diveroli and David Packouz found themselves in. Their
tale is utterly preposterous, but entirely true, although events
naturally have been dramatised for the film. Like something straight
out of a culture-clash comedy from the 1980s, Diveroli and Packouz
landed a $298 million Pentagon contract involving over a hundred
million rounds of ammunition. The mishandling of the deal and the
pair's subsequent falling out was covered in a Rolling Stone article by
Guy Lawson, and later in a book by Lawson entitled Arms and the Dudes.David Packouz (Miles Teller) is a pot-smoking massage therapist working
in Miami, Florida, dividing his spare time between his girlfriend Iz
(Ana de Armas) and trying, somewhat unsuccessfully, to flog the
high-quality Egyptian bed-sheets that he has invested in to retirement
homes. At a funeral, he encounters his old best friend Efraim (Jonah
Hill), who has made a success in Los Angeles trading in arms on eBay.
They rekindle their friendship, despite Efraim proving himself to be a
unpredictable loose-cannon, and David eventually joins his chum at his
new business venture AEY. With the war raging in Iraq, the government
has set up a website offering contracts for weapons and military
equipment. David's job is to pick up the crumbs; those small orders the
big companies ignore.There are, as Efraim informs David, a hell of a lot of crumbs, and the
two are soon making their fortunes while Efraim indulges in everything
from prostitutes to copious amounts of cocaine. The two grew up loving
Brian De Palma's Scarface (1983), and imagery from the film adorns
AEY's office walls. The same unquenchable greed that possessed Al
Pacino's character seems to drive Efraim also, and it isn't long before
you can see the inevitable downfall on the horizon. Director Todd
Phillips, on the back of those terrible The Hangover sequels, seems to
be intent on making a semi-serious film, and wisely takes inspiration
from some of America's great dark-side- of-the-American-dream cinematic
works, such as De Palma's aforementioned drug-lord saga and Martin
Scorsese's Goodfellas (1990). But, unlike Adam McKay's The Big Short
from last year, Phillips doesn't have the nerve to go all the way.Where McKay exquisitely balanced comedy, drama and satire to dazzling
effect, Phillips seems too intent on focusing on the goofball antics of
its hapless anti-heroes to deliver any real bite. This is a story that
highlights many things from the government's irresponsible approach to
warfare, the dangerous practice of allowing just anybody to legally
deal in arms, and the devastating effects of blind ambition, but these
themes are only touched upon. Packouz is essentially our lead
character, but he feels like little more than an exposition tool, with
de Armas getting the thankless role of the boring partner who must warn
her hubby whenever his actions lead him into the dark side. Thankfully,
Jonah Hill is a tour de force, cranking his loathsome character up to
11 without ever feeling unbelievable, proving once again what a
versatile actor he is becoming. If you're looking for an intelligent
satire of a fascinating recent event, then you probably won't find it
here, but as a piece of entertainment, it certainly delivers.
