3
Lars chose the worst ending

Now we come to the second half, the light and brisk tone turned into
darkness and intense.The volume II completed itself to a whole
encyclopedia of sex, basically it encompass some most hitted genre of
pornography, the heartrending yet anticipatory breakup with Shia and
her son, the grotesquely sadistic sexual experience(Jamie Bell is a
seductive rising star I think he looks extremely authoritative even in
a gray sweatshirt), the lesbian trans-generational sexbut I have to
say the second half chose the WORST ending. I almost felt Lars's
ineptitude of finishing this overly ambitious and kaleidoscopic of
nymphomania.IMO the second half succumb to the exotic provocation and contrived
completion, and thus lost the integrated genuinity and spontaneity in
the film. The group therapy tirade is simply hard for the audience to
buy, and to make things even worse, the objective outsider---the
asexual erudite first expressly exalted Joe's curious tale to a
feminist level, that's like obliterating the whole soul in the film and
later tried to break his cherry . It simply does not end well, the
second volume substantiates all the criticism, being pretentious and
far-stretched. The beauty of loneliness and individual choice and more
political-oriented feminism falters at the last 20 mins of the film. It
could have stroked audience with Joe's poetic simplicity in her life,
every change and decision has something to do with sex and if Lars let
the audience themselves to retrospect the feminism. From a non-essentialist perspective, Joe's life choice shouldn't be
analyzed in a gender context, although the social convention and
stereotypes makes the assumption that woman leading a licentious life
would be recognized as schizophrenia and sinful yet male womanizer
would be shouldering much less pressure. I think it doesn't matter if
the lead role happened to be a woman or man, it's all their own tragic
but willful choice. Eccentuating the historical differences between
genders is no longer the task of feminism, especially not in an old
schooled preaching way. Joe's sexual adventure shouldn't be comparing
to men's to make it justified, the very categorization itself in an
unnecessary context would be fallen into the scope of social
stereotype, thought nothing condemnable, there's more I expected from
the proclaimed-to-be-feminist movie.
