2
Surprisingly Cold And Emotionless

For a story that seems tailor-made to be a tug at your heartstrings,
tearjerker kind of movie (and it's inspired by an actual story of a
woman who loses her memory of her husband after a car crash and falls
in love with him all over again, so how could this miss?) it is
surprisingly weak in the emotion department. The problems begin with
the lack of any discernible chemistry between Rachel McAdams and
Channing Tatum (who play Paige and Leo - the fictional couple who go
through that nightmare scenario) and it continues with weak acting and
a bunch of important characters who are just totally unlikable. The
only part of the movie that came across to me as raw with emotion was
when Leo slugged Jeremy in the face. I'd have done the same thing under
the circumstances. But it made me wonder why this movie had to be
populated with such imbecilic characters.Sam Neill as Paige's father and Jessica Lange as her mother are nothing
short of manipulative as they try to turn their daughter's horrible
accident and memory loss to their own advantage, actively trying to cut
Leo out of their daughter's life, and Jeremy (Scott Speedman) is no
less manipulative. The downright ugliness of those characters certainly
raises up in the viewer a desire for things to work out for Leo and
Paige, but they don't make the movie enjoyable. McAdams struck me as
lost through most of this - her portrayal of Paige and her situation
just not coming across as believable, and Tatum didn't especially
impress me either.The basic concept has been seen before. Think "50 First Dates"
(although this is more serious than that) or "Regarding Henry"
(although this is less serious than that.) What this should have going
for it is the "inspired by true events" angle, but frankly that gets
done so much now that I don't think anyone takes it all that seriously.
I'm glad it worked out for the real life couple whose story did inspire
this. I just wish this movie had itself been a bit more inspiring.
(2/10)
