1
Just another generic, poorly executed and passable horror film

Annabelle: Creation Where can I find 100 words to describe this movie? A horror film so
generic, after seeing it in the movie theaters, I have already
forgotten the most content of this supposed "good horror movie".So selfish and so poorly executed (for a budget of 15 million, better
Filming locations could be found).We have a handful of generic characters written in the most generic way
possible. The traditional sick character of the horror movies (Janice),
the only friend (Linda) that is with her and the traditional characters
that are basically irrelevant to history. Why this movie has so many
characters, but only 2 characters are relevant to the story (the two
girls - Janice and Linda), and for what, does the other four girls
exist?In that, the only thing that make this movie is to have a useless
sub-plot and the remaining girls are to be scared by a useless
scarecrow ,by the way, this demon has nothing to do with the one that
control Janice. Unnecessary, I know.That leads to the conclusion why this film have so many characters and
the only way to insert them in the main plot of the film was to create
this irrelevant sub-plot , that only serves to distract the public from
the main story, even if from since the beginning there was never
interest of the writer to develop and create a relationship with the
public and for this to the public, if these characters die or live is
so irrelevant as the film itself.The reason why films like The Exorcist and Ringu proved and were a
success, it was because the filmmakers are focused on a single central
character and created the story around this same character. A large
number of characters never meant quality. Having a lot of useless
people to the story adds nothing to the quality of the movie. Not to
mention the poor acting of the main casting (especially from Stephanie
Sigman). Not to mention again (without success or quality) that the
filmmakers tried to copy some shots from films like The Exorcist and
Ringu (just look especially when the kids went to pay a visit to the
water well). A horror movie that will only satisfy the genre's weekly
fans, but for the rest of the public, just another generic, poorly
executed and passable horror film, with nothing new to bring. To be
avoided, no doubt.
