9
All in a Night's Work

Nightcrawler seems like a satire to modern television news about how
they choose their leads or often seek for more ratings by entertaining
their viewers rather than aim straightly to the facts. But there is a
much interesting story beneath here and that is the main character,
Louis Bloom. The guy that easily manipulates people with his sinister
tricks of persuasion. Everything else may just be the natural world of
crime and accidents, but in the eyes of this character, the experience
is made far stranger and oddly fascinating. This provides a
compellingly menacing and provoking piece of commentary which results
to such engrossing film.What the plot mostly does is to fully absorb the viewers into the
character of Bloom by studying his sociopathic behavior and the words
coming out from his mouth. He is a charming young man with a dark
intention hidden behind his grins. He pushes the limits of the law and
his own safety, only to accomplish on what he must do in the job, even
if it risks many people's lives. The actions of this antihero is ought
to feel terrifying on how it affects to both the business he's working
on and the society he is watching. The media's side however is more of
a picture of cynicism on how they broadcast the scariest stories of the
city, giving the people fear so they could earn more viewers out of the
concern. It just breaks down on how the evil of their success is
disguised as their own ethics.The filmmaking perfectly captures their night's work. You couldn't
clearly see the scenario they shoot unless you watch them on a video
footage. The violence and peril they witness are shown without any hint
of sympathy, since they only use them for the news show. The horror of
these gritty scenes once again belongs to the nightcrawler. Jake
Gyllenhaal is one of the biggest highlights here. His character
obviously has the personality of a psychotic villain; he is mostly
bluffing, and by the dashing enthusiasm he shows to the people around
him, you probably may not know when his inner total madness will burst
out from his frightening eyeballs, and that provides more tension than
you expect. This is one of the Gyllenhaal performances that will be
remembered for his career.Out of common sense, this story may lead its main character to a moral
about how much he is taking this job too far, probably destroying his
humanity. But no, this guy is relentless, almost inhumane, and his
style in fact helps his career grow bigger, which turns out we are
actually rooting for a villain. And that probably pictures to some
oppressive ambitious beings out there behind some system. This is where
things go in the end, bringing an outcome to a social satire. You can
spot a lot of relevance even when some of the situations get a little
out of hand. Nightcrawler is something else than a sentiment, what we
must focus here is Lou Bloom: a new, possibly iconic, movie vigilante,
except the only skin he is purposely saving is himself and his career.
