3
?

I've been a long time fan of the Resident Evil series even when people
criticized them left and right. I thought they were really
entertaining, stylish and inventive. Until now. There is no way I can
stick up for this movie or any reason I'd even want to. I can't really
give you a synopsis cause I'm not even sure what I just watched. All I
can say is that it was huge disappointment in every facet possible.
Despite the silliness of the previous films they always grounded
themselves in some type of realism within the reigns of its premise.
This entry doesn't even feel like it's a part of the same franchise.
Gone is the fun and it's been replaced with ritzy production values and
no discernible storyline. It's a movie based on a video game in which
they are actually part of a video game and nothing is really happening.
Despite a somewhat promising start with a cool reverse battle sequence,
a best of franchise film reel and an inventive and even a little scary
trip into suburbia we than move on to the supposed purpose of the film
which just doesn't make sense at all. I mean the choices are just
astoundingly bad why make the little girl deaf and the film filled with
sign language, why set it in this underground facility, why is all of
this happening, with this type of technology how does the remaining
human population even have a chance, how is Wesker alive and why is he
good now? he's not human??? None of these questions will be answered
and lets not even discuss the frustratingly awkward scenes like one in
which one of the good guys has a double unnecessary death, an
uninspired nod towards the Alien franchise and repetitive scenarios
that get less effective the more you see them (really the squid face
things). Also, the acting has never been good in the Resident Evil
series but Milla Jovovich had evoked a cool sense of fierce heroine,
this time around she just seems plain bored as do the other actors.
Filled with insipid dialogue, questionable plotting,overlong pacing, a
weird bad movie from the 90's score, mediocre fight choreography
(except for the scene with the chain) and a crapload of wasted
potential this movie just feels like a bad dream. Sometimes, when I'm
really looking forward to a movie I'll dream about it the night before
and it will be horrible well this is what this feels like. Because in
no possible way, what I just watched is a resident evil movie. Despite
all of my complaining the movie does have some decent scenes the
suburbia one I brought up before was kinda neat, another featuring Ada
and Alice against 2 ax men and the chain fight in Tokyo. Besides that
it's all just a big plodding waste of existential cinematic trash. A
brainless, soulless unintentionally funny horror/action/sci fi hybrid
that despite a larger budget,returning cast members and more impressive
production values feels like an overlong filler episode that leaves me
with a big question mark. Why has this happened to my beloved
franchise???
