10
Do not listen to the critics on this one! A vastly under-appreciated tale of promise and hope.

This film deserved so much more than what it got, both critically and
commercially, when it debuted back in May, where unfortunately it ended
up becoming one of the year's biggest box-office bombs. From the mind
of one of today's greatest directors, Brad Bird, the same great
filmmaker that gave us some of the best animated films of all-time like
'The Iron Giant' and 'The Incredibles' and the best 'Mission
Impossible' film to date in 'Ghost Protocol', 'Tomorrowland' is an
inspiring original story that above all promotes the two things that
have been lacking in today's cynical society; hope and the promise of a
bright future.Some have accused this film of being preachy for promoting these exact
morals. But if you ask me, that just makes this film even stronger as a
result in how it boldly goes against the cynical mindset that you see a
lot of nowadays in favor of an optimistic vision of a better tomorrow.Bird and co-writer Damon Lindelof make the right decision to not
over-rely too much on the world of Tomorrowland. This film may be
centered around a fantastic utopia where anything is possible but it's
more about the journey to Tomorrowland than the place itself and the
build-up leading into the film's finale is second to none. Ultimately
though it was the finale of the film that made it such a polarizing
flick amongst critics. But contrary to popular opinion, I thought it
was suitable for what the story demanded. In a year where characters like Furiosa are being regarded as some of
the greatest film characters of their time, this film features two of
the best female leads of the year, played perfectly by Britt Robertson
and Raffey Cassidy, respectively. As lead Casey, Robertson perfectly
conveys the character's optimistic outlook without coming off as
annoying while Cassidy shines in the role of the totally bad-ass robot
Athena. George Clooney is also excellent in the role of an inventor
named Frank who, compared to Casey, is much more pessimistic about the
future but gradually regains his faith over the course of the film. Don't let this film become one of those forgotten box-office bombs just
because it dared to critique the cynicism of today's society. With
brilliant performances and visuals and messages that resonate more than
ever nowadays, 'Tomorrowland' is easily the most underrated film of
2015 and another masterpiece from director Brad Bird.
