3
They're the bad guys LOL

Disappointment. That's actually far better than what I felt after
watching this movie. I wanted to leave the cinema about 30 minutes
before the end but that's against my personal policy so I tried plan B
but found nothing to poke my eyes out so I watched, and cried...-First, where is Deadshot? No, because all I saw from start to end is
goody Will Smith playing the good family guy, very far from the cold
hearted hired assassin he is supposed to play.-Second, what was that false publicity? The Joker appeared a lot in the
trailer but he has absolutely no purpose in this movie apart from being
the background story of Harley Quinn. Really, you remove him, you get
the same movie but with only half of the theatre full.-Third, while I'm on her, the guys who made this movie obviously didn't
get the relationship between Harley and the Joker. The Joker don't give
a damn about her, she is his tool, he can throw her from a bridge
without a second thought while Harley has developed a serious Stockholm
Syndrome toward him. In this movie they are all lovey-dovey, at the end
of the movie I nearly expected to see them leave in a car with "Just
Married" written on the back with a "And they lived happily ever
after."-The first half of the movie is actually not that bad, the villains
really look and act like villains most of the time but everything
started to fall apart after Will Smith reunite his troops after they
failed the mission the first time, each one of them just want to drop
everything and leave but then Will Smith says they can't give up and of
course all the bad guys listen to him because he is Will Smith (God?).
That was when I did my first face-palm.-This movie is 50% Will Smith, 40% Harley Quinn, and 10% the others.
Really, apart from the first two, the others are just background
characters, to make a comparison, in Guardian of the galaxy, you got
one hero but you know the background stories of every members of the
team, and they get their fair share of screen time. In this movie, they
just don't care.-The jokes, sorry... The "jokes", well, I think the quotes speaks for
themselves. Sometimes it's funny, most of the times it's not and
sometimes they even try to explain the joke you understand but don't
find funny. I think Warner tried to be more funny and less dark in this
movie after they got some bad reviews about Batman Vs Superman being
too dark but that's just ridiculous, they remade some scenes to add
jokes and sometimes it even breaks the action.-And while I'm on it, Batman vs Superman had an impact in the DC
Universe, it starts with the consequences of what happened in Man of
Steel and at the end of it, the world has changed. In this movie, there
is no progression of the DC Universe, it feels more like one of those
filler episode you don't want to watch in any series.-I won't talk about the end of this movie because, as a sadist, I want
you to go watch this movie and suffer during the two hours needed to
finally reach the end credits. Just know that the last minutes are
actually way worse than the rest of the movie. Enjoy ;)Anyway, as a DC fan, I wanted to see Harley Quinn in a movie but
certainly not in this one. I really, really, REALLY hope that Warner
won't use this movie as a reference to make Justice League because if
they do I'll have to formulate an official request to DC so they can
let Marvel do their movies :D See you all in 2017.
