9
Living Well's the Best Revenge

That's some terrifying stuff right there! Fashion designer Tom Ford has
written and directed his second movie, a multifaceted revenge thriller
which is even better than his first, 2009's "A Single Man".Both are visually stylish, of course, which is expected from fashion
guru, both have interesting premise and good actors, and both have this
cold, unsettling atmosphere which tries to keep the viewer at some
distance.In short, Ford has managed to take everything good from his solid debut
project and bring it to the next level with "Nocturnal Animals". It's
more lively, gripping, effortlessly cool and deeper. There are two stories, interwined in a way which may make viewers
wonder whether it's real or imagined by the character. But it is
ambiguous in a best possible way, not trying to f--k with our minds and
then leave us hanging.An unhappily married woman (Amy Adams) thinks she wants his first
husband (Jake Gyllenhaal) back. And she reads his novel, a violent
thriller, which seems like a revenge tale. And then things get more,
er, complex.On-screen events are exciting already but Ford the writer turns out
surprisingly skillful at making it even varied, without getting stuck
or losing steam, or letting us think that we know where all this ends
up. He even playfully takes jabs at his main fashion job and the
lifestyle and personal sacrifices that come with it. And the whole result really makes you feel something for the
characters, unlike many of the thrillers that only manage to arouse the
viewer during their best bits.It's not mostly about Adams and Gyllenhaal. There is a number of
smaller but important characters and cool performances. We have Michael
Shannon, Aaron Taylor-Johnson, Isla Fisher, Armie Hammer, Michael
Sheen, Laura Linney.The cast is good enough reason to watch it. Everybody adds something
worthwhile to the experience, even Sheen and Fisher and especially
Linney who all have rather small roles used to move the story along. Shannon brings his usual magnetic mix of cool and creepy. Gyllenhaal
manages to move between having balls and ball-less state without
turning unbelievable or too heroic. Taylor-Johnson as the bad guy even
got a Golden Globe for his work (the only one for the movie although
Tom Ford got nominated for both best movie / drama and adapted
screenplay). He really deserves it, he is evil at its most subtle and
delicious. Delicious to watch, I mean.But I am especially happy about Amy Adams who is often used in the
movies as just a pretty face or supporting woman. In 2016, she has had
two strong roles, in a thinking man's sci-fi "Arrival", and now this. Her screen time may be limited but she surely makes the most of it,
captivatingly playing out both worlds that the character has hiding
inside her. I believed her both as a lively young woman and the jaded
older one that's missing all the ideals that she had decided to throw
away long time ago.Based on a novel by Austin Wright which Ford wanted to adapt into two
movies initially, one true to original, the other not so much. I am not
sure which way he chose ultimately but what a ride, eh?PS No, I am not giving 9 out of 10 to every movie I watch from now on.
The last three have been just some of 2016's best of the best.
