6
Adam Sandler doing Adam Sandler

I'll start by saying I grew up on Adam Sandler movies... I know some
people don't care for his type of comedy or even some of his more
dramatic roles. I cherished the 90's cult classics like Bily Madison,
Happy Gilmore, The Waterboy, etc. I liked Punch, Drunk, Love. I even
shamefully liked Spanglish. I know, I know.I'm a generation X'er, which may or may not be relevant to my
appreciation for Sandler. But his comedy was revolutionary at the time.
It brought something different to the table. Slap-happy. Stupid.
Whatever you want to call it. Albeit, dumb. It was different and
unique.Now, the cast... Wow. You've got the supporting cast that made Sandler
movies great. Rob Schneider, David Spade, Steve Buscemi, John Tuturro.
They had some mildly funny jokes during the movie. Most of the jokes
were ridiculous and just plain childish. But I think that's half the
appeal of Happy Madison movies. The cameos were random. But in my
opinion, really pulled the movie together. Watching Vanilla Ice play
Mark Twain was entertaining and even surprisingly funny and spot on. I
mean, he scarily resembled Mark Twain. Blake Shelton playing Wyatt
Earp.. Not sure who's idea that was, but it was actually entertaining
as well and I think kind of matched his personality. The plot was just okay. But really, what are we expecting? True Grit
plot line? No, it's a comedy. Half the fun is the ride. The only thing
I couldn't spin my head around was the fact that Adam Sandler didn't
have many jokes. Seemed like everybody got the funny lines except
Sandler. Unless the 'mystical' powers were all the jokes. In which
case, I didn't find all too funny. After watching Pixels and Grown Up's
2, I've realized that Sandler's films are morely aimed at the younger
kids now. I know I'm probably late to the party on that one, but I'm
always hoping Sandler will reprise his somewhat crude humor. I even
thought he was coming back to that with Funny People. I think that's
just how Hollywood budgets and movies work. Financiers know people are
going to pay money to watch Will Ferrell look like an "in over his
head" dummy. Just like a Seth Rogen movie is going to have a lot of pot
humor or Tyler Perry dressing up as a woman. People know what they're
getting into before previewing. This may be why it's on Netflix.. Who
knows, I don't. If you're looking for a goofy movie the family can watch with very
minor swearing, an occasional motorboat, and some borderline racial
epithets, then you should be safe. I will give it to the casting crew
for actually hiring Native Americans to play Native American
characters. Seems like that's still a real problem in Hollywood,
surprisingly. Didn't seem as some folks would say, whitewashed. Sandler
did have a super tan going on. But, that's probably apart of the
character living amongst native tribes. Who knows, probably just making
a bigger deal than it really is, like many people and organizations are
doing these days. No need to boycott the movie or anything people! And
although I did say there were minor racial blah blah blahs. The movie
made a point to go after everybody(races). Get over it people!
Cheese-zest! I find it funny that the folks complaining of racism in
the movie and walked off set, walked back on a day later to finish
shooting and collect their paycheck. Please people, stop trying to kill
satires. Even if they're not that funny. I probably wouldn't watch it again. But I wouldn't tell somebody not to
watch it. It's all silliness you'd expect in a Happy Madison picture.The movie was a very sooooooft six.
