10
a reshaping your legend a hero with as bug secret that changes how we see him on his world or ours a war defines everything can we find the true leader and change history

Writer Matt Holloway is a fan of the drama Downton Abbey (2010), and
jokingly said that Jim Carter (who plays the butler Mr Carson in the
show) should voice Cogman . He was shocked when director Michael Bay
got Carter on as Cogman Isabella and her lovable robot that nobody
cares for only her is a blast there is an emotional bonding going with
cade as he asks him about his daughter there USA story in Michael bays
film which is good as we have another new comer Laura haddock she is a
university professor who show the history to kids about everything she
has a hidden secret only for Sir Edmund Burton who gurads a past to
help keep humanity safe follow her because she will be needed to help
the world from becoming cybertron the impressive Alnwick Castle, he has
a robot butler called cog man who is very good but sarcastic humour I
really don't have much else to say. As stated above, it's the fifth
film, you've already made up your mind whether you want to see it or
not. If the negative reviews have put you on the fence or dissuaded
you, think about whether or not you enjoyed the last four films. If
yes, then ignore the critics and enjoy yourself. what can i say from a
Michael bay transformers his story has an actual story line and he gets
the best story of the lot and good acting from his cast with Anthony
Hopkins he gets an actual good story to tell Michael bay is given his
lead actors and reamigining of the Arthur and the knights of the round
tables with the transformers been involved so we kinda gets another
king Arthur of the summer and also ww2 story in there two this film is
2hrs25mins long and a closing credit sequence just in case the make
another like the rumored bumblebee spin off Anthony Hopkins character
has been guarding a secret so the decepticions his character shows a
bit of comic timing don't get the it hands on a so we see mark whalberg
back as cade Yeager minding his robots at a junk yard the film takes
place in parts in Chicago mostly in London and Africa. its a nice
welcome from America getting hit to spread it out as a globally war
Autobots and Decepticons are at war, with humans on the sidelines. we
see Merlin his mystical power but he comes good as Arthur in medieval
times losing the battles but we see the dragon from the artifact that
Merlin's has been given so its lost to time and nobody knows where the
artifact as mega tron is on the lookout for it as as we see barricade
give cade a special item as we as we see the josh duhamels character is
group take down the transformers comes to alliance with cade as they
find his group in the out of bounds part of Chicago but strange things
hap-ping to optimums we see the army helping mega tron find cade follow
him to a little town as as they give chase and battles the other auto
bots as well as drones so cog man get cade o his plane to England to
help his search as the police give chase to him in London as wheels
brings the professor and Edmond Burton to explain his mythology and
secrets he keeping but all these stories make sense as there is 12
robots guarding a secret as we see the the group get to a submarine
this sequence is impressive underwater to a ship of importance that
leads to an all out assault in Stonehenge with everyone gathering the
support the flying sequence the action are top notch with cybertron
here on earth like the way they tried in transformers 3 this time they
succeed please Michael bay come back when you have another story there
police chases through London submarine chases as well this film has
everything Optimus Prime is gone to search for his maker he comes
across the dead cybertron and quintessa is going to play her cards
right and get the artifact. The key to saving our future lies buried in
the secrets of the past, in the hidden history of Transformers on
Earth. Unlike the first three films where Sam was always "The Chosen
One" and his girlfriend's job was to just run in slow motion yelling
"SAAAAAM!". The main group of Decepticons were actually given
personalities and unique identities. Though completely under- utilized.
They make a big deal of giving them Suicide Squad-like introductions
and their screen time amounts to maybe 45 seconds each . I was actually
surprised how much screen time Anthony Hopkins had. I figured he'd slum
it for two or three scenes, of exposition, grab his paycheck then
disappear.But he's actually a prominent character and he seemed to have a lot of
fun in the role. this film has a budget of 217 million wow it really
shows being the last film despite the bad review here i gave it 10 out
of 10 i hope they make more here is the list of transformers Peter
Cullen ... Optimus Prime Frank Welker ... Megatron Erik Aadahl ...
Bumblebee John Goodman ... Hound ( Ken Watanabe ... Drift ( Jim Carter
... Cogman ( Steve Buscemi ... daytrader ( Omar Sy ... Hot Rod ( Reno
Wilson ... Mohawk / Sqweeks John DiMaggio ... Nitro Zeus / Crosshairs
Tom Kenny ... Wheels ( Jess Harnell ... Barricade Mark Ryan ... WWI
Tank / Steven Barr ... Volleybot
