5
Unapologetic story of faith, conversion and martyrdom

SILENCE is beautifully filmed and strangely involving for such a grim
and slow-moving tale. For a 2 hr 40 min movie, I never felt bored or
felt that the story was unnecessarily stretched out. As an ex Catholic
who, as a child, was intrigued by the idea of martyrdom and by tales of
the saints who were killed because they refused to renounce their faith
(and so, got an express ticket to heaven - a very attractive end result
for one who feared hell as much as I did), I could identify in a more
distanced way with the protagonists and their Catholic followers in
Japan. I expected that in telling a story set 400 years ago, Scorsese would
provide some kind of modern day insight (psychological,
political,sexual) to the true events depicted in his narrative.
Instead, all I could glean was that this was a film by a devout
Catholic, about devout Catholics. Who would have thought Scorsese was
possessed by such primal and dogmatic religious feelings? Shockingly, the Japanese culture is referred to more than once as a
'swamp' where nothing truly spiritual, much less Catholic, can grow.
The inquisitor who persecutes the Catholics is portrayed by a lizardy
actor with a high pitched voice, doing what I guess is the Japanese
equivalent of a moustache-twirling villain. Cruelty, execution and
torture take up a large part of the picture, and while accurate I
suppose, is probably no worse that what was done by the Catholic
inquisition in Europe. I was hoping for some kind of statement about religious fanaticism, and
at one point, when a Buddhist is trying to reason with the priest,
asking why it isn't better to focus on the common elements of the
world's different religions, I thought the film was going in that
direction. But it ends on an 'upbeat' religious note, when it is
revealed that the priest held onto his faith in the Catholic god right
up to the end. The film was premiered at The Vatican which says a lot
about where it's coming from. There is a dedication to the priests and
converts in Japan. I wasn't impressed by Andrew Garfield in the central role. I felt like
he was miscast, so it's mostly not his fault - too young and modern
(and who kept his hair so coiffed in the first half of the movie?).
Adam Driver was excellent as always, but not sure why he felt he needed
to lose all that weight for the role, he was really skinny and
sunken-eyed. Liam Neeson, also miscast with his very tall stature and
hard-to- disguise Irishness was good in a thankless role. The Japanese
actors (except for the inquisitor) were fine, but most of their
characters were never really developed into anything more than
simple-minded worshippers or cruel torturers.
