10
An Epic Ride!

At first I was very nervous at the prospect of another Superman movie.
Especially considering how horrible "Superman Returns" was; however,
"Man of Steel" was a roller coaster of a ride as we not only witness
Kal El's (Clark Kent's) origins, but we are shown Superman the way he
is supposed to be.With expert direction brought to us by Zack Snyder and the assistance
of Christopher Nolan, "Man of Steel" is packed full of action and
emotional depth. No Superman movie has ever come close to achieving the
atmosphere illustrated in the comics or the cartoon series until Zack
Snyder's "Man of Steel". Sure it has a lot of action, but anyone who is
a true Superman fan knows that Kal El's battles were almost always
explosively long. Furthermore, the biblical metaphors were absolutely
brilliant! As Superman was intended to be portrayed as a "Christ Like"
figure, you see his journey in "Man of Steel" not all that much
different from the New Testament. (Ex: When Clark Kent asked the priest
for advice, behind him was a stained glass window of Christ praying to
His Father before He was arrested and crucified. Next scene Clark Kent
willingly submits himself to be arrested, ascends into the "heavens",
and than descends in a crucified form) As Superman's story is not about
becoming the best, but an immigrant facing the challenge of home VS
heritage, we see Zack Snyder's portrayal of Superman reflect the "Man
of Steel" originally designed by Joseph Shuster. Furthermore, who could forget such actors like Henry Cavill (Clark
Kent),or Amy Adams (Lois Lane). Every actor in this movie left their
mark, but I needed very little convincing to believe that Cavill was
the face of Superman, or that Adams could be a persuasive Lois Lane.
And although I am not particularly a fan of Michael Shannon, he was the
perfect General Zod. With the level of ferocity Shannon provided, not
to mention his one liners, this was by far his best role yet!This movie soared through my expectations and it will be the first time
I ever give a Superman movie a perfect 10!
