7
Little story about almighty power, when phrased correctly

The absolute power of wish fulfillment has been connected to many
beings, genie and god among others, but now even aliens can make one's
wish come true. Absolutely Anything is a simple film blessed with nifty
premise and charming charismatic lead in Simon Pegg. It's a light
casual watch that surprisingly heartwarming and incredibly witty beyond
the occasional quirky display, even though the premise doesn't have
much depth.Neil (Simon Pegg) is an ordinary teacher who has been given ultimate
power by a group of aliens for the purpose of judging the entire earth.
The plot and cast are rather familiar, including the love interest by
Kate Beckinsale along with the usual best friend and silly talking dog.
It's pretty hard to fail on delivering a talking dog, especially voiced
by Robin Williams.First and foremost, the humor is fun and fairly amusing. The script
offers some ridiculous situations, often presenting these scenes for
Simon Pegg to shine, and that he does. His character is utterly
identifiable, wishing assortments of petty stuffs and ending up with
stupid mistakes by simple poor choice of words. Some of these might
feel overdone and the movie just goes for the boundary of safe route.Pegg also seems like able to crate chemistry with the cast, and
everyone is quite likable, aside from a few over-the-top moments for a
couple of them. The movie doesn't venture into deep thought about
absolute power or the logic of bending reality, it merely a mild
enjoyment with nice characters, most of whom work in platonic
relationship. One extra credit for the presentation is how the visual
looks sophisticated, it uses the scenery of England and the special
effects fairly well.Absolutely Anything is a much humbler film than the title suggests, it
provides ample of light entertainment with a commendable performance by
Simon Pegg even if the premise feels outdated towards the end. Plus,
having Robin Williams again, even in doggy form is a nice treat.
