3
definitely not the "masterpiece/modern classic" it has been hyped up to be

This is going to be less of a review and more of a rant, so let me get
the good parts of the movie out of the way. It's competently acted, and
there isn't a bad child actor in the bunch. It's also pretty well shot,
with James Wan using long shots where the camera floats around and
through windows and walls, giving it a feeling of omnipotence. Now for
the bad.The intro is god awful. I'm not exaggerating when I say it made my
entire theater erupt in laughter as Lorraine Warren pulled out in
invisible shotgun to murder a family in a sort of dream-sequence. This
accompanied by the fact that her hands are sped up every time she pulls
the lever back to reload turn an intentionally "intense" introduction
into a self-parody. Next, this movie's CGI is also god awful. They were so lazy with so
many parts that it's almost unbelievable how this movie has been made
out to be a masterpiece by so many people. Instead of using a prop
cigarette that produces smoke they said "f**k it" and just made crappy
CG smoke. Instead of using machines to produce fake snow or create
realistic rain effects the crew must have decided that was gonna take
too much effort so they instead just CG'd the rain and snow effects.
And they aren't even good CG like in the fast and furious movies that
Wan does. It's like he decided his VFX and FX crews should be made up
of entirely by monkeys with down-syndrome. The 2spooky4me memelord
skelingtons in this movie don't look any better. The possessed girl
(yeah I'll get to the clichés of the story later) is completely CG,
including her fake face veins and Sh**ty cat-monster eyes, and the evil
nun demon monster that makes no sense has a Cg mouth tentacle thing
that looks straight out of the resident evil movies that shouldn't be
getting made anymore. But the icing on this @ss flavored cake is the
amazing idea to put the skeleton from "The Nightmare Before Christmas"
in this movie, complete with the wonky frame rate that comes with
claymation that makes things look like they aren't really moving right.
It doesn't make sense on an artistic level (cause it isn't
F!^&%%!%^@CKing scary!), and even less sense in a real life level. The
dog literally transforms into the monster in front of a little boys
very eyes. Like if it has this power why did it decide to use it only
right there and never again. That's probably more useful than just
about every other monsters' power in this movie, yet it just decides to
do it once and only for the spooks cause lol this movie is so scary
right guys gosh James Wan u master of horror u. ALso CGI tree spikes
killing major characters in hallucinations is definitely 100% super
intense not fake looking at all gr8 job m8 8/8.OK for my favorite part, the story. It. Doesn't. Make. F**king.
Sense....... Like I've seen so many message boards trying to understand
certain motivations and all I can think is "guys. No one writing this
movie gave a sh!t. There is no explanation...". So first off the main
antagonist is valak or whatever and he can only be defeated by finding
out then saying his name yadda yadda yadda cliché cliché cliché sure
whatever. Now this nun monster valak enters the movie in physical form
to terrorize Lorraine Warren once in her little spirit world, and once
inside her house (btw the house scene, this movies so-called "scariest
scene of the decade", is absolutely retarded. the demon literally grabs
a picture, uses it as a face, and runs at Lorraine while both its hands
are still holding the picture. It looks like those kids that try to do
Naruto ninja running because their parents don't love them). Now you
might be saying, why does she do that? Well wouldn't you know it, the
house the Warrens investigate just so happens to be terrorized by
Valak. So Valak must have been f@cking with Lorraine to try and draw
her and her husband to the house right? Except as soon as they get to
the house the demon tries to make it look like the family is faking
everything, and therefore tries and almost succeeds in making the
paranormal investigators leave. What was the point in haunting Lorraine
then? If it wasn't to draw her to the house the only explanation can be
just to scare the audience. In fact drawing them to the house only
leads to the demon being defeated. There is absolutely no reason
Lorraine should be seeing this ghost unless it is through some kind of
ghost world logic that the movie never explains. If that is true then
it's pretty f*&#*cking stupid to not explain a major lore/plot element
like that to the audience once... God this movie makes me want to jump
off the roof of my house more than everyday life already does so i rate
it 3/10 don't see it unless you want cancer I hope somebody actually
reads this big wall- of-text review
