4
It's time that comic book fans started to demand more from these films before the entire genre evaporates into a disposable, commercialised heap like it does here

Thor: The Dark World left me wondering why for all its popularity and
box office hype the superhero genre so regularly fails to ignite the
faintest trace of excitement and imagination in its narrative and
storytelling. This sequel, following Kenneth Branagh's reasonably funny
2011 film, was written by no less than five writers, who between them
have only mustered another dull, achingly generic story about saving
the world. Aside from less than a handful of funny self-referencing
points, this is a hugely disappointing by the numbers blockbuster that
under services its embarrassingly rich cast and offers its enormous
fanbase too little that is challenging, inspired or even surprising. What's confusing about the deliberate complacency in the script is that
it's entirely unnecessary. There is no financial risk to comic book
adaptations anymore to justify this kind of dumbing down. Earlier this
year, Iron Man 3 became one of the top five highest grossing films of
all time. While Christopher Nolan's Batman films have achieved
financial success without succumbing to simplified narrative lines.
Some even complained The Dark Knight Rises had too many story threads.
How many filmmakers today would crawl over broken glass for a cast
featuring Chris Hemsworth, Natalie Portman, Anthony Hopkins, Idris
Elba, Tom Hiddleston, Chris O'Dowd and Stellan Skarsgard? With such
talent it's not unreasonable then to ask for more than obligatory
special effects and indistinguishable villains, who are included only
to prop up pseudo- scientific plot points. Little effort has been exhausted into humanising these characters. Thor
(Hemsworth) is a blank slate who swings his hammer and growls at
people. It makes Chris Hemsworth look like a boring actor when we've
seen how charismatic he can be, like he was in Rush, with the right
material and director. There are fewer fish out of water jokes that I
enjoyed in the first film. Natalie Portman, normally a delightful,
charming actress, is embarrassed here as Thor's girlfriend, playing a
character devoid of plausible emotional responses and desires. Her
first reaction after being warped from London to Asgard is to say "Hi!"
and "Let's do that again!" Never mind that her skin is now infected
with the Aether, a weapon of mass destruction from an ancient group
called the Dark Elves (who speak perfect English no less). She's more
impressed that Thor told his dad about her! The Dark Elves are led by
Malekith (Christopher Eccleston), who wants to use the Aether to
destroy the world. Comic book films rise and fall on the quality of their villains. The
Dark World has two, both of whom are substandard. The Dark Elves,
branding swords and laser weapons, aren't very interesting. Though
Thor's brother Loki (Hiddleston) sometimes brings comic relief to the
film's dry, seriousness (I did enjoy one clever shape shifting moment)
he still doesn't possess the physicality of Tom Hardy's Bane to be a
truly menacing physical threat. Locked up in a cell for nearly half the
film, there's not a lot for Loki to do. What should also be a haunting
surprise at the end of the film is badly telegraphed. When Thor and
Loki inevitably team up, the brothers take a few more punches than you
might expect, but still recover very quickly, even after a severed
hand. Marvel is a subsidiary company belonging to Disney so this is
largely bloodless action. This is the first comic book feature film by Alan Taylor, who replaced
Patty Jenkins under controversial circumstances. Taylor has worked on
television shows like Game of Thrones, and he brings little distinction
to the action and the way the story is told. The camera isn't
particularly mobile and significant plot lines like the Aether are
lazily signposted through the film's prologue. He opts to intercut
Thor's main story with a subplot involving Jane's scientist friends
back on Earth, including an overly excitable Kat Dennings, who are
discovering the alignments of Asgard's nine realms, if that matters.
Sometimes they lighten the mood but they're still cornball stereotypes
(the wacky sidekick, the crazy scientist and the dorky intern) that
don't instill any visible subtext to the plot. The two narrative
threads collide with Taylor's most elaborate set piece, as Thor fights
simultaneously between universes, a battle that is undone by Thor's own
indestructibility. Over the closing credits are shots of the film's
concept art, which could be totally interchangeable with most of the
plotting. It's time that comic book fans started to demand more from
these films before the entire genre evaporates into a disposable,
commercialised heap like it does here.
