4
A Collection of Every Reunion Cliché Ever Used In Cinema

WEEKLY MOVIE REVIEW: American REUNIONMINI-REVIEW: A Collection of Every Reunion Cliché Ever Used In CinemaRATING: Don't waste your time. (Rating System: "See it in theaters,"
"Wait for the instant download," "Don't waste your time.")Jim Levenstein (Jason Biggs) and his bride Michelle (Alyson Hannigan)
of 5 years have a two- year old son and the zip has gone out of their
marriage. They vow to have some together time at an upcoming 13-year
high-school reunion. When Jim arrives, he meets up with his buddies
from high school: Kevin Myers (Tomas Ian Nicholas), Chris "Oz"
Ostreicher (Chris Klein), and Paul Finch (Eddie Kaye Thomas). They have
all achieved some degree of success.The couple are staying with Jim's father, Noah (Eugene Levy) who offers
unwarranted marital advice.The four buddies are enjoying a night out a few days before the reunion
when an old, but unwanted friend appears: Steve Stifler (Seann Willam
Scott). Stifler still lives life as though he were in high school and
works as a temp at a major company. Later, Jim meets newly 18- year-old
Kara (Ali Cobrin) who is hot for Jim, who was her babysitter all those
years ago. Can Jim and Michelle rekindle their love life? Can Jim stave
off the advances of young Kara? Will the other guys meet up with their
old flames? Will Stifler cause more trouble with his high- school
pranks?Yes.This is a wholly predictable and unimaginative retread of an American
classic: "American Pie," which first hit theaters 13 years ago. THAT
movie was original and took a fresh look at the coming of age story.
And if you haven't seen "American Pie" recently (or ever) I recommend
you go back and see it again. Because you'll have to do your homework
to keep up with the plot in this sequel.And be warned: there are plenty of boobs and penises to be seen in the
film. Not that there is anything wrong with that. You should know that
it is coming at you.Everything you expect to see is telescoped in the first 20 minutes of
the film. Jim has an encounter with the young girl, Stifler makes
juvenile pranks, old flames kiss, someone isn't who he says he is, the
married couple survive, and everyone realizes that high school is now
behind them and the best of times are right now. And Eugene Levy is
still one of the funniest men alive.So for sophomoric comedy and a predictable plot line borrowed from Romy
& Michelle's High School Reunion, Family Guy, and just about every sit
com ever written, I recommend you don't waste your time.
