2
The Hobbit: The Desolation of Literature and Film-Making

The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug is more of a bad Steven Seagal
clone than an adaptation of well-read literature. The first film in the
new trilogy, An Unexpected Journey, was very good, with one problem
I'll mention later. If the worst decision Director Peter Jackson made
was to include Orlando Bloom and Evangeline Lilly, which seems to be
the case for the professional praise-givers, this film would be
fantastic. However, it just so happens that there's this little thing
Jackson and his fellow writers forgot to do: make sure the movie
resembles the book.I'm sure most people who saw the first movie remember the leading
villain Azog. Well, in case you haven't read the book, page 251 of my
1997 Houghton Mifflin copy states "Bolg of the North is coming, O Dain!
whose father you slew in Moria." In the section on Durin's Folk in
Appendix A of the Lord of the Rings, it is stated that Dain Ironfoot,
who is supposed to appear in the next film, slew Azog in the big Dwarf
vs. Goblin battle we see as a flashback in film one. This means that
the entire Azog subplot is just one big fan-fiction. It is one thing to
include the son of the Elven-King (Legolas) even though he is not
mentioned in the book, after all, is it so inconceivable that Legolas
would be near his father? It is an entirely different matter when a
character is included even though he has been dead for over 100 years!Continuing with our game of "What is timeline consistency?", we come
across Gandalf. Gandalf ends movie 2 in a cage at Dol Guldur. Beyond
the fact that there is no rationale for such a decision, we know from
Appendix B that Gandalf reports the existence of Sauron to the White
Council and then takes part in the attack on Dol Guldur. After that
battle, he proceeds to save Bilbo's life right before the Battle of
Five Armies. Based on this film's timeline and what part of the
original timeline still remains, Gandalf has but a handful of days to
accomplish all that I have listed.My copy of The Hobbit is 271 pages long. The US edition of Harry Potter
and the Sorcerer's Stone is 310 pages. Why in the name of Eru do you
need three movies for this story? I understand and would have gladly
stood behind two films, therefore allowing for extended action
sequences and a limited reduction in content. Three films should be
more than enough to cover the entire book but apparently not for Peter
Jackson. Beorn is trimmed down to the importance of Celeborn, then we watch a
ridiculously long giant spider sequence, then the dwarfs are captured
for maybe three hours Middle-Earth time, then we watch an overly long
fan-fiction chapter about Azog's friends being killed by our two elf
heroes. Note that Bolg is able to attack the dwarfs because Jackson
changed the escape from Mirkwood scene in order to allow for more
combat. After our craziest bloodbath yet, we have an overly long scene
introducing another Jackson creation: Bard, the Barge-Sailer who
apparently got mixed up with Bard, the Captain of the Guard. You see,
the former makes a whole bunch of claims that are actually true about
the latter. Why do we need to mess up the Lake-Town sequence? If you
guessed "To set up another impossible bloodbath", give yourself a
vacation to a combat zone. This round of combat is only after we leave
four dwarfs behind because one of them got the Witch-King's knife
disease that Frodo got in Fellowship but this time it came from an
arrow fired by Bolg who has absolutely nothing better to do since Azog
took all his screen time. Of course, Kili is saved by Tauriel, Captain
of the Guard of the Woodland Realm who somehow has the same healing
capability as Lord Elrond Half-Elven, wielder of one of the three Elven
Rings of Power and a direct descendant of the Kings of the Noldor. It
is rather fortunate Tauriel is there, because otherwise, Kili would
have to wait for the next movie to have his deathbed dialogue, provided
Jackson even sends Fili and Kili to Erebor where they're supposed to
be. I'm all for the suspension of disbelief, but this doesn't even make
sense in the fantasy universe.And don't forget the dragon. In Lake-Town, the viewer is reminded
multiple times that Smaug can only be killed by a special
ballista-bolt, strangely called an arrow, and only in one tiny spot on
his stomach. In the mountain, Bilbo points it out again. But Peter
Jackson apparently pays no heed to the script with his own name on it
and gives the viewer a 30 minute "Let's Kill the Dragon Sequence". Take
a guess who doesn't die in this sequence. If you said Smaug, the Fire-
Breathing Dragon, you are more qualified to direct this movie than
Peter Jackson. I loved the Rings film trilogy and, with the exception of Azog, the
first Hobbit film. This film though, has almost no plot development,
almost no consistency with the timeline given by Tolkien, almost no
attention paid to its own script, and entirely too much combat. I
remember Jackson being criticised for the warg battle in Towers but
that did not require any plot change except for the location of the
death of Hama (a very minor change) and the whole Aragorn-cliff-
dream-thing which serves to heighten the tension before a battle that
is done far better in the film. The warg battle helped to make a good
fantasy film. This film seems like it is trying to see how many people
can be killed before it gets an R rating from the MPAA. Deviations from
the book are good if it enables better cinema but not when it allows
for "Let's Kill Everything We See: The Movie".
