1
Whoever wins, the audience loses

Every so often, a movie comes along that exceeds all expectations, and 

revitalises a genre that had been looking a little tired. There were 

several movies that did it for horror last year, and the results have 

been amazing.



Can the comedy genre please get one of those movies?



Look, it's not all doom and gloom. We had a couple of hits earlier in 

the year with Pork Pie and Going In Style, and even Baywatch had a few 

laughs. But with Rough Night and now The House, we've hit a downward 

trajectory. I'd say we can only go up from here, but I'm honestly 

terrified that might not actually be the case.



The premise of this garbage is that Scott and Kate (Will Ferrell and 

Amy Poehler) are terrible parents. More specifically, it's that they 

can't afford to send their daughter Alex (Ryan Simpkins) to college, 

because the scholarship they'd been relying on has been discontinued. 

(Why? Because the councilman in charge of said scholarship has been 

spending that money on his mistress.)



So here's my first question. If your daughter – nay, your only child – 

is getting good enough grades throughout her school years that getting 

accepted into her choice of college looks like it's actually going to 

be feasible for her, why aren't you saving any money towards that? 

Everything I've ever seen that's been about college in the U.S. has 

emphasized how expensive it is. Come on – you live in a nice house, and 

have always had the option of bringing in more money, as evidenced by 

the fact that Kate looks into going back to work when she discovers how 

much money they're going to need.



Why didn't you look into going back to work before now? I understand 

that a lot of parents want to stay home and spend time with their 

children, but Alex appears to be an intelligent and capable girl. She 

is in no way dependant or reliant on having her mother home all the 

time, and if my understanding of teenagers is correct, most of them 

would be mortified with having their mother home all the time.



Kate's not the only one to blame, though, as Scott is simply terrible 

with numbers. Alright, so math isn't a strong suit for a lot of people, 

but as the family's only breadwinner, Scott should have taken some 

responsibility for this problem a long time ago. At the very least, he 

could have hired an accountant or financial consultant to help him 

understand what's happening with his family's money.



The answer to Scott and Kate's money problems comes in the form of 

Frank (Jason Mantzoukas), a clearly unstable lunatic who suggests 

turning his house into an illegal casino. It doesn't take long before 

things get out of control, and everything goes belly-up in exactly the 

ways you'd expect.



The biggest example of this is when the three catch someone cheating, 

and end up cutting his finger off with an axe. This earns Scott the 

nickname of "The Butcher", and Kate somehow winds up as "The Burner". 

Frank… well, he was clearly a psychopath already.



The first thing to note here is that the effects are terrible. I've 

seen intermediate school productions that would handle a severed finger 

and spurting blood more realistically. As for the attempt to re- attach 

the finger, that has to be seen to be believed. (Then again, I did see 

it, and I'm not sure I can believe it.)



Scott, Kate, and Frank quickly adopt their new personas, and only Frank 

manages to pull off anything remotely close to "threatening". Not even 

a glorified cameo from Jeremy Renner as a mob boss can save this story 

– although the bloopers at least show he seemed to have fun filming it. 

Yay for him.



Then there are the side characters in this monstrosity. The best thing 

about the movie is when the casino holds an impromptu "fight night", 

and that's only because it's so damn satisfying to see these idiots 

beat the tar out of each other. Not a single character is at all 

endearing, and the only one you have any reason to care about is the 

one going up against Martha. You thought the (now infamous) "Martha" 

scene from Batman v Superman was bad? This is worse. Much, much worse.



At this point, you might be questioning where the police are in all 

this. Well, it would appear the town of Fox Meadow has only one police 

officer, and the only person in the world more inept at their job is 

currently in the Oval Office. To be fair, Officer Chandler (Rob Huebel) 

does have his hands somewhat tied by Councilman Bob (Nick Kroll), the 

most corrupt politician since the one currently residing in the Oval 

Office. 



And how does this all end? Yeah, I'm going to spoil it, because this is 

so bad that I don't recommend anyone see this, and the ending is one of 

the worst parts.



Scott and Kate wind up in the clear (despite having run an illegal 

casino, chopped a man's finger off, been implicit in burning down a 

house – and in doing so, likely killing a mob boss), Frank gets his 

wife back (who has been holding the moral high ground all movie, then 

promptly suggests she and Frank commit insurance fraud), and the 

councilman's mistress goes back to her husband, while said councilman 

suffers no other consequence, despite his embezzling.



The lesson, then? Do whatever the hell you want, as life has no 

consequences. At one point, Kate does tell Scott that one of them needs 

to be the adult, but it's quite clear maturity was not a factor in any 

of this.


