7
Tonto...er...The Lone Ranger is not great, but reasonably entertaining

Is The Lone Ranger a great movie? Not really, but it is relatively
entertaining.Is the movie slow in the middle? A little, but not as bad as most
critics would have you believe.The Lone Ranger is a bit long and does ask you to be patient at times,
something that seems to be lost in the modern video-game world we live
in.The strength of the movie lies squarely with Johnny Depp and his
portrayal of Tonto. I seriously doubt that any other actor could have
pulled it off. Depp deadpans through several one-liners, which gives us
much of the movie's humor. In Depp's capable hands, the character of
Tonto is both admirable and witty, with a charm all his own.The first part of the movie definitely gets us started with a bang. It
does jump around quite a bit in the first few scenes, which seemed a
little disjointed at times, but things are tied together well enough as
the movie progresses.The middle of the movie is slower, but we are provided with many of the
answers as to the back history of the characters, especially with Tonto
and the villains. I will agree that the movie could have accomplished
the same with five to ten less minutes, but that is certainly not an
adequate reason, in itself, to skewer the film.And the last few scenes are the non-stop action sequences that most
modern audiences love, although they do almost come off as cartoonish
at times.As stated, Depp's performance is the single biggest selling point for
this movie. I thought William Fichtner was very good as Butch
Cavendish, the film's main villain. Tom Wilkinson, James Badge Dale,
Ruth Wilson, and Helena Bonham Carter all lend excellent support.Of the movie's title character, I'm not sure that someone else other
than Armie Hammer wouldn't have made a better Lone Ranger. That being
said, the interactions and dialog between him and Depp's Tonto are
enjoyable and occasionally laugh-out-loud funny. In many ways, this is
a buddy movie, albeit with a bit of a twist.Perhaps, one of the main reasons critics dislike the movie is its
title. For all intents and purposes, this is really a Tonto movie. It
is more his story and told from his point of view. It probably should
have properly been called Tonto. But I don't see that as being a bad
thing at all.If you take it for what it is, The Lone Ranger is a reasonably
entertaining film, with a very strong performance by Depp. And that was
enough for me to give it a 7 out of 10.
