10
Prepare to take on the yellow mile and aliens in The World's End

After Shaun of the Dead took the world by storm with its brilliant
comedic take on the zombie genre Edgar Wright, Simon Pegg, and Nick
Frost became instant house hold names and have been making their mark
on the industry ever since. After Shaun of the Dead they teamed up
again for their action comedy Hot Fuzz to bring their own unique vision
of action and proved that they were a force to be reckoned with. Now
they are back together once back again for the final chapter of their
"Blood and Ice Cream Trilogy" with the alien action comedy The World's
End, but will it pack the punch needed to stand up against the previous
films and continue their dominance in the industry? The World's End follows five childhood friends who reunite when one of
them becomes hell bent on trying the drinking marathon again in an
attempt to reach the fabled pub, The World's End. As they attempt to
reconcile the past and present, they realize the real struggle is for
the future, not just theirs but humankind's. As we all know Shaun of
the Dead and Hott Fuzz are great fun, but this film steps things up big
time. The storyline is simple, but allows the actors to take on some of
the most in depth characters they have gotten to play in these films to
date. In addition they have switched up some of their normal personas
to deliver something fresh and new. Everyone is great in this film and
they all play off of each other perfectly to create all of the needed
comedy, friendship, anger and emotion that bring these relationships to
life and evolve in the direction needed for this film to work. There is
plenty of action here and it top notch with each fight getting better
and better. We all know they are no stranger to action, but Frost and
Pegg deliver all their own fight scenes that are perfectly executed and
to the level of something you would see in a Jackie Chan movie, which
is no surprise since the man behind them is from his stunt team. The
effects and direction of the second half of the film delivers a
simplistic yet brilliant approach meshes perfectly with the science
fiction aspect.This film keeps all the humor and fun that fans have come to expect
from these guys, but delivers probably the most complete film to date,
really showcasing their growth as filmmakers. Beyond the fun action,
comedy and excitement of this film, make sure to not forget and see if
you can find the Cornetto reference somewhere in the film, but you have
to pay attention. They have mentioned that this is the end of the
trilogy, but let's home it is just another stepping stone to more
greatness from these guys and we will see them together yet again.
