9
Challenging Fortitude

Captain Phillips is a biopic based on 2009's Maersk Alabama hijacking
incident, which was an intriguing story and ordeal of the people
involved. This film adaptation mostly plays as a straightforward
thriller with only brief backstories. In spite of whatever comment
regards to the accuracy this film is getting, it didn't hurt how much
of an exhilarating piece of cinema this is. Merits obviously goes to
director Paul Greengrass and star Tom Hanks. It's quite predictable
what you'll get if you put those talents together, but the result is
somehow surprising like you've never see it coming.There's nothing much interesting happening at the first act when the
film was exploring the personal life of Richard Phillips, but that
seems to be the point: the dreariness of the intro immediately presumes
that he really is just an ordinary guy. Though, there isn't actually
enough detail about his personal life in those scenes aside of his job
and his family, same with the Somali pirate leader, Muse. Everything
becomes more alive when the actual plot starts going. Lives turn upside
down, tension rises every minute passes, and the humanity of both
Phillips and Muse are becoming more and more visible. It's a down to
earth matter of life and death where both sides aren't too perfect
enough to succeed or survive, and their actions could end up causing
even worse situations.Even before the release, everybody has already been betting that Tom
Hanks will get a nod for this(probably because of the accent or he's
just Tom Hanks). Other than mimicking the real Phillips' accent, Hanks
really gives his character a palpable sense of fear and pressure. But
there is one scene in his performance that will definitely give the
viewers a total impact, which it might've made the camera linger. That
whole scene could be a trick for some to love this movie even more, but
even without it, Hanks is still spellbinding as Captain Phillips.
Another amazing performance is first time actor, Barkhad Abdi. Abdi
manages to be threatening, sympathetic, and strangely charismatic at
the same time as Muse, thus it makes the character more effective.Now for Greengrass, his aesthetics are all there. Shaky camera bringing
momentum in every action scene, action scenes filled with nerve
wracking suspense, and sidelines taking place in control rooms. But
this is his challenging side, such as United 93, when there aren't any
much explosions nor fighting set pieces practically involved. The title
might give one an assumption that the film is about a captain who
fights off pirates. But it turns out, they're just hopeless victims who
do not have a single gun to defend themselves from their armed enemies.
The kind of thrill here is anxiety. You will always get the sense that
there is something wrong going to happen in every step these pirates
take, leading the hostages really need to depend on the government and
the Navy SEALs. What's smart about this is it's all mind games. They're
troubled by complicated decisions, yet have awareness of naivety. At
the second half, the excitement is now relied by figuring out which of
them is going to be fooled by whose tricks. By the end of the film, you
will then realize how limitlessly enticing it was while realistic at
the same time.Captain Phillips is almost just a very great thriller, then it
eventually becomes more powerful. Despite of calling his achievement
heroism, it was more like a test of courage. The movie is wise to make
sure Phillips is no glossy superhero, but a regular human being who
gets to face a situation that may lead anyone to trauma, just to
sacrifice the risks of his crew. Simply, that may tend to inspire which
is why it's so focused to his point of view. Otherwise, the filmmaking
did an astonishing job, although you already know what these people can
bring. But surprisingly, it still defies our expectations. It's amazing
how Tom Hanks' talent can still surprise many, and how Paul Greengrass'
obvious style feels unique and fresh (in this movie, at least). Rating
the film can be somewhat difficult. It's so engrossing and excellent,
it's hard to notice any terrible flaws about it. Later on, it doesn't
matter. Captain Phillips is a satisfying ride that ultimately does its
best.
