3
This movie was illogical garbage, so here's a summary (SPOILERS!)

Alright, odds are you're going to hate this because I didn't really
like this movie and I'm fairly blunt sometimes.My extremely detailed summary: This is what I get for finally going into a movie blind thinking it has
Morgan Freeman and Depp and Paul Bettany in it so it has to be passable
at least, right? Well, the director was very awful and the story was
ridiculous. It's a movie about the singularity and dealing with it, and
while there are some things in that I'd like to believe happen someday,
it's not going to happen in this manner. Here we go.Basically, Depp is a brilliant weirdo and married to his soulmate
wifeperson, they work in genetic computing. So Depp gets shot by a
psycho and is going to die, so emotional wifeperson takes the next step
and downloads Depps brain into the pc system he's been developing, AND
IT WORKS. The psychos are attacking all over, it's calamity, Jim. What
can we do?! We have to hide inside this totally undefended abandoned
school from our childhood which happens to be housing this extra copy
of the world's most advanced computer set up system we need, that
anyone could have just walked up and used. - Super Computer Depp needs to be connected to the internet, and does
get connected for approximately 1 second and is now spreading himself
over everything everywhere, but it took days to download his brain? -
Super Computer Depp does shady stock works to make his wife rich, and
so then he's going to work towards fixing humanity in some method that
computers believe is best, so he needs a place to do this. He decides
(and he's smarter than us so this has to be right) that this place
should be underground under a desert in California right beside this
piece of crap hopeless hick town. Wife will use newfound riches to
build it. - This might be reasonable, except wife hires one redneck
hick from the town to build it. - Redneck hick is successful in a few
seconds, and *POOF* we have this insanely gigantic underground facility
full of technical equipment never before seen to man. So it didn't
actually take a few seconds, but in actual movie time it was more like
a month. - Deppbot starts healing people with nanobots, and taking over
their bodies making them super strong and super smart or restoring
vision, this seems fine except they're now brainwashed into a
nanozombie state - Deppbot decides this is better for everyone, starts
recruiting more people for miracles - Bettany is aware things aren't
good, and teams up with the original psychos (including a Daenerys
clone) that shot Depp to try and bring him down, they hide under copper
wire nets and eventually steal the original Redneck Hick, since
nano-programmed into a superzombie. Deppbot can't see through copper
wire, it blocks his wireless signal. - Bettany helped Live Depp program
the original AI system, he's the only one that can stop this - In a few
seconds, he comes up with a virus that can take down Deppbot, and
injects it into the wife, she's going to die but it's going to be for
the good of humanity - Attack Plan time! The psycho team mounts an
assault on Depps field of solar energy panels to distract him while
wifey goes and is like, "Oh save me lover Deppbot!" or something, and
gets him all secretly. He'll never see it coming. - Using four guys,
the fake Mother of Dragons, three guns, and a 1910 style mortar gun
dragged around on by trailer hitch on an elderly Chevy van, they defeat
the evil nanozombie townsfolk despite a large number of shading things
happening. - Bettany's virus is uploaded to all the internets in the
entire world, infecting everything and shutting the internet off and
turning it back to a pre-stone age state, also known as 1986. After
all, it's better than an army of Depp clones that use wireless internet
to steal people. They're nanobots, you know. They're in EVERYTHING now.
- Humanity is saved! YES! ***BIG REVEAL*** I won't reveal it, but what doesn't happen is Depp
isn't like, "Screw your internet. I'm gonna make my own internet to run
my life." He made his own new self out of synthetic flesh and whatnot,
he reincarnated himself as a living breathing Deppbot, but he
apparently can't defeat the lack of 801.11ac wireless. I can assure you
that that did not happen, even though his nanobots are in EVERYTHING.Moral of the story: This movie is impressive in it's illogical hilarity
which is extremely difficult to describe or attempt to write down (I
didn't include most of it), it might be worth it to watch and make fun
of in a sort of "count the number of times the Wet Bandits die in Home
Alone" sort of way, but otherwise don't. We got like, 5 minutes of
Morgan Freeman in this one, apparently there's only so much Morgan
Freeman to go around and some other movie needed an old black guy. I hope you appreciated this summary, but odds are you're bugged now.
