1
Dumb, dumber, dumbest!

This is without exception one of the dumbest films I have ever sat
through. Or perhaps it's a masterpiece and I'm too dumb to understand
it? Anyway .....Here are some of the things (the list is not exhaustive) that I could
not get my head around.There is a catastrophic failure in most of the crops of the world. And
the entire scientific community simply shrugs and says, 'Oh well. Dem's
the breaks' and does nothing. Seriously? Apart from that one dude in
the 'super secret' NASA compound? Okay then.A super intelligent, super advanced alien civilization has been
watching us. They see that the planet is in peril. That more than six
thousand million people will die from starvation. So they offer a
solution. Not by curing the blight mind. No, that would be far too
easy.They construct a wormhole (they being five dimensional creatures 'n'
all) close to Saturn ('cos Kubrick had already used Jupiter in 2001).
The film makes a big deal about corn being the only viable crop still
resisting the blight (cornmash beer anybody) but it's only a matter of
time before that too succumbs. So It's a matter of great urgency that
the astro-heroes get to the ol' wormhole as quickly as possible. So the far side of the Moon would be a handy place to put it. No, no, noooo.They place the wormhole beside Saturn. So distant from Earth that it
takes two years just to fly there. And all the while any poor kids unfortunate enough to be called Dusty
are getting the crap beaten out of them at Pharming College. Anybody
for cornflakes? Now NASA have already explored the wormhole. They know that it opens
into another galaxy, beside a black hole and an assortment of potential
new worlds. Because of the proximity of the planets to the black hole,
time will be distorted and a couple of hours exploring these new worlds
will translate to decades back on Earth. While back on ol' Planet earth
the corn crops fail and the dust storms gather pace. So this was the
plan?By the super intelligent aliens? Is someone taking the p*ss? There were
no planets anywhere that were ... um ... NOT right beside a black hole?
Super intelligent? Doh! And so finally, after a number of silly subplots, our hero finally
descends onto the event horizon of the black hole (My God! It's full of
stars?). And experiences time as a physical construct. But is he shown
the origin of the blight that is wiping out the planet so that he might
alert the scientific community? Hell no. He is shown his daughter's
bedroom on the day that he left on his 'weekend getaway.' We see him
getting really upset that his daughter isn't picking up on his STAY
...... STAY! gravity assisted message, even though he should remember
that she shouted STAY .... STAY! to him on that day, and he left
anyway. Sheesh! And Zimmer's soundtrack? I hadn't heard about the soundtrack request
came to him via email, without him ever seeing the movie. Explains a
lot really. Presumably the email went something like 'If you produce
anything orchestral like Kubrick, you're off the project.' So the
soundtrack consisted almost entirely of ponderous bass heavy synth
driven (in the cinema where I watched it) piercingly loud quasi
classical discordance. Bear in mind that Kubrick chose the pieces by
Strauss, etc., to assist him in editing the movie,and then realised
that they actually fit perfectly, and so discarded the original
soundtrack that he had commissioned.Not Nolan.NoSirreeBob! Email it in, Hans.Who listens to the music anyway? Deeply, deeply disappointing.And I loved Inception!
