7
It may not be the best Sci-Fi film but at least it's a Fun one!

Self/Less follows billionaire industrialist Damian Hale, who is the
master of his universe, until he encounters a foe that he can't defeat:
cancer. His only hope is a radical medical procedure called "shedding,"
in which his consciousness is transferred to a healthy body. After the
procedure, Damian, now called Edward, starts a new life in New Orleans
but is plagued by disturbing images. When he delves into Edward's
mysterious origin, he learns that some will kill to keep it secret. From the quirky mind of Tarsem Singh, we are brought a Sci-Fi spectacle
set five years in the future where immortality now exists with many
consequences, having a new body, you need to take these pills so you
don't have hallucinations or die. Essentially like John Frankenheimer's
classic 'Seconds', this film is still a merrymaking Thriller with
enough twist and turns to make everything intriguing.Even if we get a introduction to Kingsley's character in the first ten
minutes, we all can agree that Reynolds portrayed him very ideally,
being in a young body again can bring some rather exceptions. Matthew
Goode, who basically plays the guy who doesn't set right with you, does
play a mischievous guy with many tricks up his sleeve that do come In
tack in the story. There are scenes at times where the story becomes a bit bland that last
longer than they need too and don't move the story along. There are
some characters that do bring blandness as well, they are a bit dreary
and don't bring enough pep to the story and are just caught up in this
web of madness. I might be nit picking but these are the only troubles
I had with the film.The twists are hinted throughout and can be expected to be true but
there is some speculation that makes you want to see if you're right or
not. There are many stirring moments in the film from gun play, fist
fights and to a car chase, you make yourself root for Reynolds/Kingsley
to make everything a whole once again. Singh brings most of his usual flair throughout, directing such
charming sequences to keep you motivated for what you're about to see.
S/L may not be brilliant but at least it brings fitting thrills to keep
you going!
