9
What "Glee" Wishes it Could Be.

"Pitch Perfect" is basically "Bring It On", but with a cappella singing
groups instead of cheerleadersand it's also a million times funnier.
Directed by Jason Moore and adapted by Kay Cannon from Mickey Rapkin's
novel, "Pitch Perfect" tells the story of Beca (played by Anna
Kendrick) an aspiring DJ attending Barden University, who's hobbies
include seclusion, nonconforming and listening to Mashups (which kind
of makes her a conformist). In an attempt to have Beca become more
socially active, her father (who is also a professor at the University)
urges her to join a club on campus. But upon perusing each club
(especially the glee clubs) she quickly decides that the loner
lifestyle is far less humiliating. That is, until a rather awkwardly
nude run-in with one of the members of the The Bellas, an all-girl a
cappella group on campus that sings nothing but Ace of Base. And since
The Bellas are coming off of an embarrassing loss at the previous
year's singing competition, Beca, as well as a multitude of other "a
ca-losers"; including Fat Amy (as advertized) and Lilly, the girl who
can apparently speak no higher than a whisper, are asked to try out in
a desperate hope that a group of misfits could be just the thing that
sends the conservative Bellas all the way to the finals of the national
Glee-esque competition. And if this doesn't sound generic enough, there
is also a love story subplot centered around Beca and a guy who looks
shockingly like Dane Cook. OK, so if this sounds like every teen flick
that you've ever seen, about a misunderstood misfit who ends up helping
the popular kids (that were mean to her in the beginning of the movie)
win their something-or-other championship/tournament, only to discover
that in the end that they are all the same no matter their social
standing, then that is only because, from synopsis alone, "Pitch
Perfect is exactly that. But before you write this dark horse off, let
me just say that due to a sharply satirical script and a surprisingly
hilarious, eccentric and immensely engaging cast, which include the
likes of Brittany Snow, Hana Mae Lee, Rebel Wilson (as Fat Amy) Skylar
Astin and Anna Kendrick, giving a performance which not only solidifies
herself as a true leading lady in any genre, but also as the new
Kristen Bell, but with talent, "Pitch Perfect" does elevate itself far
above the mundane-ness of your everyday teen comedy. In fact, from the
non-stop laughs, to the quite satirical teenage dialogue, to the
perfectly hilarious "Best in Show"-esque banter from Elizabeth Banks
and John Michael Higgins, who play the two commentators of the national
a cappella competition, "Pitch Perfect", aside from a curiously abrupt
ending, works on EVERY level; even in its rarest of sappy moments."Pitch Perfect" vs. "Glee": The main reason "Pitch Perfect" works so
well is actually quite simple. Where "Glee" is so in love with its
self-proclaimed perception that glee clubs are the new "cool", this is
a comedy that isn't afraid to make fun of a cappella groups, glee clubs
and people randomly breaking out into song, while at the same time
presenting interesting characters that audiences want to root for. So,
if you where thinking of avoiding this film on the basis of your
dislike of "Glee" (or that awful show "The Sing-Off") but find yourself
being dragged to see it anyways, no need to worry because chances are
you will be happily surprised by what "Pitch Perfect" has to offer.Final Thought: Even though most of the comedy here is on the cruder
side, this is still a PG-13 venture. In short, "Pitch Perfect" is not
the raunchy female buddy comedy, filled with overlong skits about feces
that "Bridesmaids" was. But good news"Pitch Perfect" is so much more
funny and (more importantly) more accessible than "Bridesmaids" will
ever be. What I mean by "accessible" is, men will be able to watch this
movie without hearing the phrase: "You wouldn't get it because you're a
man." All kidding aside, I haven't seen a comedy with this much clever
teenage personality since "Easy A". So, in the comedic cesspool that
has been 2012, filled with half-assed attempts such as "That's My Boy"
and "The Watch", "Pitch Perfect" is not only my pick for the biggest
surprise to come out of the genre this year, but also the funniest
movie of the year (so far); narrowly edging out "21 Jump Street".Written by Markus Robinson, Edited by Nicole I. Ashland Follow me on Twitter @moviesmarkus
