9
Brilliant...yah I said it...tear me apart but this was truly outstanding

First of all let me make clear I don't care about any of the
controversy. I don't care if you want to sit in front of me and trash
talk the historical accuracy, the biblical aspects, or how much you
hate Jesus and therefore this movie inevitably sucks. As one
professional reviewer pointed out, controversy aside this is a good
time at the movies! From the first trailer I was excited and my
expectations only grew. I knew the potential for it being some bizarre
anti-Christian piece was high but I was willing to try it and excited
to do so. Simply put...wow...my expectations were met and exceeded and
this is now the best film I have seen thus far in 2014. I am not fan of
blatant CGI and I thought Noah used it near-brilliantly. The entire
animal kingdom was CGI but it was so blatantly awful that you scoffed
at it. Noah's heart and soul comes from its unique and liberal
perspective of the story. I have great respect for them for looking at
the tradition Christian story and saying, there are issues there but
here is how this could have happened. They incorporated brilliant
religious symbolism and characters, gave Noah a diverse character with
incredible depth, an edge of your seat story of politics and the world
as they know it. No one knows what the world was like then...no one. We
have snippets and conjecture and this is by far the most brilliant
rendition of that time. They liberally create animals that may have
been or the giants that the bible speaks of and the barren, nearly
steam punk world that exists around them. I was floored.I have always enjoyed Russell Crowe though I felt like he has hit some
major speed bumps in his career. This role was perfect for him and he
absolutely nailed it. He is dark brooding, full of faith and love for
his family. He is driven and disgusted with the world and the scenes of
his fighting with his faith are just gut wrenching and brilliant. Crowe
is superb. Jennifer Connelly was good in her role as Noah's wife. Their
chemistry is terrific but I felt like perhaps her character is very
much in the background and doesn't get a lot of chance to shine. She
has some good scenes but her performance lacks some of the power of the
others in the film. Anthony Hopkins was terrific in a much more subtle
way as Methuselah. Hopkins captures an undeniable strength and wisdom
to his character. His scenes are immediately captivating and he doesn't
really have that many but they are so important and so well performed.
(Also I also want to address the many apparently slow IMDb forum trolls
who were wondering about Hopkin's character performing "magic.") He was
performing miracles via the creator as his faith was as strong as
anyones. Emma Watson, Logan Lerman and Douglas Booth were all very good
as Noah's children. They each have a scene or more that was truly
terrific and their chemistry together was really good as it was with
Crowe as well. Ray Winstone was very good in his role...however...he
was also the one major flaw in the film. He was used as the "big"
villain and I think his character was unnecessary and the story of him
getting inside the ark was unnecessary, clumsy and pointless. It was
literally the one thing that made me feel like this was a 9 and not a
10 for me. I liked Winstone, he did a perfectly solid job in the role
but the character was unnecessary.I am not a Darren Aronofsky fan. I thought Black Swan was terrible, The
Fountain was just way out there and The Wrestler was average. Well he
has won me over with this because what he has created here is cinema
masterpiece. The cinematography, the use of CGI, the world he creates.
This is the key. You feel completely immersed in this world that we
know nothing about. This isn't even truly a disaster film. This is a
film about faith, love, family, God and yes there is some blatant
messages about the direction of the world we live in now. This is the
type of film, for me, that I can and will watch over and over again and
get something different from it, notice something more or different or
take something away from it. I cannot figure out why Christians would
be angry and boycott this. This is easily the best example of Old
Testament world ever created. It does take some liberties because it
has to but there isn't anything here to squash the Christian faith or
the traditional story. I absolutely LOVED the fallen angel giants
(Nephilim for those of you wanting to look more into it.) Was the film
completely scriptural? NO. But they also didn't ignore it and embraced
the concepts. Visually stunning, brilliantly acted, and just an
incredible experience. It won't get the accolades it deserves as far as
I'm concerned. 9.5/10
