5
Begins with a lot of promise, but ends with an unsatisfying note

¨A ghost is an emotion bent out of shape, condemned to repeat itself
time and time again.¨Another South American director has made his splash on Hollywood after
the successful debut of Mama in theaters this year. Argentinean
director, Andres Muschietti, made over 70 million dollars in the box
office and received decent reviews for this horror/suspense film based
on a short 3 minute movie he directed in 2008. That short film garnered
the attention of movie executives such as Guillermo Del Toro who
decided to produce and present this film. The fact that Del Toro's name
was used here and that the coveted Jessica Chastain signed on to play
the main character gave Muschietti the tremendous possibility of
debuting on a high note. The formula worked pretty well because critics
and audiences seemed to enjoy this film alike, and we could be heading
to the start of a new horror franchise. I enjoyed most of the movie,
and loved Jessica Chastain's performance, but the ending just ruined
the entire film for me. It is kind of the same problem pretty much
every ghost story film has. I feel like most of the endings in this
genre are pretty unsatisfying and ruin the entire suspense the film has
been building throughout the story. There is no denying that Japanese
films have heavily influenced the genre with films such as The Ring,
The Grudge, Dark Water, and One Missed Call which have all been remade,
but the truth of the matter is the only film that really worked with
critics was The Ring. They have tried to imitate its success, but I
haven't been scared like I was with The Ring, which had a pretty
satisfying ending compared to the rest. I do prefer this type of
psychological horror more than the gory slasher films, but I find it
troubling that they can't find a satisfying ending. My favorites in
this genre will always be the first two I saw: Zemeckis's What Lies
Beneath and The Ring. The rest have all fallen short. Mama was close to
achieving that similar success in my opinion, but the ending really
hurt it.The film centers around two girls named Lilly (Isabelle Nelisse) and
Victoria (Megan Charpentier) who are abandoned in a cabin in the middle
of the woods after their father murdered their mother and was attacked
by some presence inside the cabin. Five years later the search finally
pays off and their Uncle Lucas (Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau) finds them. To
everyone's surprise the two girls have managed to survive on their own,
but they live like animals crawling around the floor and talking to
walls. Lucas and his girlfriend, Annabel (Jessica Chastain) decide to
raise the kids with the help of Dr. Dreyfuss (Daniel Kash) who
continues to treat the girls in order for them to make the transition
from their isolated lives to a normal and nurturing family life.
Annabel soon discovers that these girls might have never been on their
own and that somehow the presence that was with them in the cabin might
be in their home as well. Several suspenseful and horrifying events
begin to take place while the girls continue to talk to shadows in the
walls and call out for Mama.The film has several thrills and suspenseful moments with a great
performance from Jessica Chastain. It was good to see her try out a
different role and she proves she can do about everything. It's hard to
find good performances in horror films, but this may be one of the
best. The movie also has its weaknesses like pretty much all horror
films do considering the protagonists always seem to make stupid
decisions, but that is what makes the genre so entertaining at times.
They are clichés which we have learned to accept. The two girls were
also surprisingly good, they had strong performances as well. I really
enjoyed everything about the movie up to the last 15 minutes which
pretty much ruined everything. Psychological thrillers usually have
this impact: they begin with a lot of promise but end up on the wrong
note, and that is exactly how I felt about Mama along with Sinister, a
similar movie I got to see a few months ago. The film is above average
thanks to Jessica Chastain, and Guillermo Del Toro's influence in the
production of the movie, but that is about it. http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/
