2
Disappointed

Before Midnight is something better erased from the memory. As a fan of
Sunrise and Sunset (the latter upon viewing it several times), it was
hard to swallow what was served in Midnight.Delpy and Hawke are both good actors, and they have returned to their
respective roles well, but why has Celine turned into a bitter old
woman, and Jesse into a selfish ass? They both displayed the seeds of
these traits in Sunset, but in Midnight, all redeeming features have
been deleted.Both characters could have walked out of a bad American sit-com. Enter
a frustrated artist wife, who worries incessantly about her body and
mothering skills, and is unfulfilled in numerous ways. Then add a
guilt-ridden run-away father who talks like a teenager and acts
supercilious in arguments. It's hard to like either of them, but you
end up siding with Jesse, because Celine has become so hard as to be
unbearable.The scenes in which Celine plays the bimbo, ostensibly to attract
Jesse, are cringe-worthy. The final scene therefore deals a death blow
to the series. The Celine of Sunrise and Sunset would never have dumbed
herself down to be found attractive, probably not even in jest. She is
out of love with Jesse completely, and it would have been more honest
for her to suggest a permanent separation! Jesse on his part seems
largely contemptuous of Celine, making numerous remarks about how he
puts up with her, as if he's the only person in the world who could
love her, and as if he has no qualities that might make him irksome at
times.Content-wise, the conversations in this latest 'Before' film are of
much lower quality. Gone are the deep revelations of inner truths, the
pretentious thoughts of youth, and in its place are platitudes and sex
jokes, with a great deal of sexism added. It's like Before meets
American Pie, and it hurts.Better it is to imagine Jesse and Celine had a one night stand in
Vienna, and a short fling in Paris, for Jesse to return to his son in
the US.Linklater, here's a deal: I'll forget all about Midnight, and you'll
stop murdering this series.
