8
Watts and Holland own it...One of the Best Pictures of the Year!

A film that captures real life the way J.A. Bayona captures it in his
newest film The Impossible is a rare occurrence in filmmaking. Not only
does he pay respect to the countless victims that were lost in the
devastating tragedy, he makes artistic choices and liberties only the
most seasoned directors can take. Starring Academy Award Nominee Naomi
Watts and Ewan McGregor, the film tells the TRUE story about a family
vacationing in Thailand when one of the worst natural disasters of our
time separates them.In the opening credits of the film, Bayona tells the audience that the
story is true, but what may bother viewers and critics is how
coincidental and inflated the story can seem. If it weren't in fact
true, the film would fail within the first few moments. It's the notion
that this did occur that demonstrates and heightens the execution of
Bayona and writer Sergio G. Sanchez so brilliantly. The Impossible is
the most emotional and devastating picture seen since Paul Greengrass'
United 93 (2006). In the first several minutes, I was already in tears.
Letting up only for short breaths, I feel like I didn't stop crying the
entire time. I was invested, full body and soul, riding among the
victims in a frightening state of mind. I could only imagine myself
there, terrifyingly so and with appreciation now that I wasn't. The
brave and committed performance by Naomi Watts is the miracle of the
film and possibly the entire year. Watts falls into the role of "Maria"
with perfect precision and accuracy. As a person who's only been a
father for a year-and-a-half, Watts puts me right in the moment of
unimaginable fear and pain. An Oscar-caliber turn as I've ever
witnessed. The entire first half of the film is shared with Tom
Holland, a child actor that can only be described as well beyond his
years. Holland is motivated and equally as afflicting as Watts. A
performance like his can only lead to more roles for him in the future.
Ewan McGregor, who unbeknownst to me as gone this long without
receiving any type of Oscar attention is pure magic. He shows an
effortless approach as Henry, a father desperate to find his family. If
there's one poor criticism about the film it's the first half of the
film, where Holland and Watts dominate, is so gut-wrenching and
brilliant that when McGregor and his story enter the screen, it
unfortunately just pales by comparison. McGregor isn't given the most
of character development to chew through but it's still an admirable
work.Cinematographer Oscar Faura's orange and yellow camera work demands the
utmost attention from the viewer, gaining a near first-person view of
what could have been. It's a technical achievement of the highest
levels. Fernando Velasquez's somber score will only build the tears
even more as your catapulted through this reenactment of terror. J.A.
Bayona's direction is simplistic but delivered with reverence. A fine
directorial turn.This is a film that must be experienced by all. As you lay in your cozy
beds tonight, take your loved ones for granted as they walk by you, and
breath the air you so blindly feel entitled to, think about if at one
moment, one single moment, from now, it was all gone. The Impossible
dared me to be a better human being, a notion not many films will or
attempt to convey. I'll try to listen.It's one of the best pictures of the year!Read more reviews @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com)
