8
A good dramatized telling about arguably the most controversial psychological experiment ever done

This movie is about arguably the most controversial psychological
experiments ever done, which generated a lot of attention in the media
in that time. It is a dramatized version of the experiment that has a
thought provoking aspect to it. This horrifying drama/thriller is a
heart breaker and is told with a slow pace which gives you enough time
to absorb the events that happen in the movie.The movie starts with three professors who interview a few student to
participate on their 2 week experiment. The professors rented a few
rooms and a hallway at Stanford University to simulate a prison. The
selected group of student are chosen based on their mental history and
their ability to endure mental setbacks. Half of the students were
chosen to be guards and half were chosen to be prisoners. The
professors behind the experiment have had a camera installed in the
hallway so they can monitor everything that is happening. At the
beginning everything seems under control. But it doesn't take long
before everything begins to escalate.The movies goes straight to the point fast. The students are getting
paid so they are doing what they are told to do. The guards must
present authority and the prisoners must be obedient. However, the
students playing the guards want more and are creating their own bully
characters during the experiment. The guards are careless and are
humiliating the prisoners most of the time, which make this movie hard
to watch. The first and second act are done with great subtlety. The
mental torturing of the prisoners serves a purpose and isn't just for
shock value. The professors who are watching the proceedings are all
having different opinions about the proceedings that are happening and
are starting discussions about morality, motivation, behavior and
boundaries. The transition from different perspectives on this
experiment is done really well by director Kyle Patrick Alvarez. Tim Talbott does a great job with his writing. The thought provoking
aspect in his writing is one of the strongest points in this film. The
second act of the film builds up really slow to compensate for the
small first act. It is unsettling to watch the guards in their
mistreating behavior, while the professors don't interfere. There is no
motivation for the guards to act the way they are behaving, except for
the fact that they can. A big reason why the film is hard to watch is because of the solid
acting of the whole cast. The young actors portray their characters in
such a convincing way, that it feels real. This movie has a lot of
heating emotional moments where the actors can show their full
potential. This film will be a great addition to their resume. Ezra
Miller and Tye Sheridan get special mentions because both get a lot of
screen time, and they show that they can carry a movie. They show why
they are one of the Hollywood's biggest talents. Even though the first and second act are solid in every aspect of
filmmaking, the movie loses its touch in the last act. I won't go in to
what specifically happens, but the subtlety of the storytelling
disappears and the slow pace kills the momentum of the climax. The last
act relies too much on shock value and the suspense is diminished
because of the repetitive scene transitions in the last moments of the
film. Overall, this is a solid movie that creates discussion between groups
with different standpoints of this subject. The acting is phenomenal by
the talented cast and there is a clear direction. The slow pace is a
tool well used in the first two acts and adds to the suspense the
director wants to communicate. Even though the film falls apart in the
last act, I would recommend this movie to watch. But only to the ones
with a strong stomach.
