9
A sentimental tear-jerker, especially if you're an animal lover!

'MEGAN LEAVY': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five) A biographical drama based on the true story of a Marine corporal
(named Megan Leavy) and the combat dog (named Rex) that she bonded
with. It was directed by Gabriela Cowperthwaite; who also helmed
another animal sympathizer film called 'BLACKFISH' (a critically
acclaimed documentary about the horribly inhumane treatment of captive
killer whales). The script was written by Pamela Gray, Annie Mumolo and
Tim Lovestedt. It stars Kate Mara (in the title role), Ramon Rodriguez,
Tom Felton, Common, Edie Falco, Bradley Whitford and Will Patton. The
movie has received mostly positive reviews from critics, and it's done
well at the Box Office so far. Being an animal lover myself, I really
enjoyed this movie.Megan Leavy (Mara) joined the Marines after failing at many other jobs
where she had to interact with people. Due to her motivation, and
extreme dedication, she exceeded expectations as a Marine corporal, and
due to her less than stellar people skills she also became uniquely
talented at relating to combat dogs. Especially a really hard to manage
military working dog named Rex. They served two deployments together,
in Iraq (in 2005 and 2006), and bonded extremely well; which made them
both very good at their jobs. The two were also wounded together, on
their second deployment, where Rex saved Megan's life.The movie is of course a sentimental tear-jerker, especially if you're
an animal lover (or especially a dog lover), but it's not overly
clichéd at all. It's actually really well made and believable. Both
Mara and the dog that plays Rex are great in their roles, and I think
any compassionate person could really sympathize and relate to their
characters (and their characters' relationship). It's not as important
a film as 'BLACKFISH', or as educational, but it's just as moving and
powerful.Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/K3Maw4akm_o
