8
The untold story? Not quite, but a well-told story? Definitely.

After Spider-Man 3 became something of a critical and commercial
letdown and plans for a sequel fell through, the folks at Marvel
Entertainment and Columbia Pictures developed a case of itchy reboot
button syndrome and immediately put The Amazing Spider-Man into
production to swing in and save the franchise. Many fans rolled their
collective eyes and the web was abuzz with fiery opinions. Early looks
and promotional materials seemed generally underwhelming, and the film
quickly became buried by bigger releases such as The Avengers, The Dark
Knight Rises and Prometheus. However, this spider has become something
of a dark horse and has somehow risen to greet detractors with a shot
of webbing to the face.In spite of the poor first impressions, one would be hard-pressed not
to admit that The Amazing Spider-Man is actually a competently-made,
enjoyable flick. The approach that the aptly-named director Marc Webb
of (500) Days of Summer fame took brings to mind last year's surprise
hit Marvel flick X-Men: First Class, in that in combines the youthful
appeal of teen drama with relatively large-scale super heroics and
action sequences. This film does not repeat the mistakes of Spider-Man
3 – instead, we have character development and interaction and clear
and easy-to-follow plot progression. Spider-Man has always been a hero all readers could relate to, with his
transition from outcast to hero and his various personal, real-world
struggles. Andrew Garfield, sexy nerd incarnate, is an ace casting
choice. The actor has said that playing Spider-Man has been his dream
since he was a young boy and the role went to the right guy. Garfield
has an effortless, genuine charm and his slightly lanky proportions do
seem very reminiscent of the Peter Parker of the comics, particularly
the Ultimate version. For all the strengths of Tobey Maguire's
interpretation of the character, Garfield's somehow rings more true.
Whether he's being a smart-mouthed do-gooder, a teen sorting out his
issues with his well-meaning aunt and uncle or a young lover unsure of
how to go about a relationship with his dream gal, Garfield is in great
form.Speaking of his dream gal, Emma Stone does a similarly good job of
playing Gwen Stacy. Many were confused after Stone was cast and then
announced as playing a different character from Kirsten Dunst's. Gwen
did pop in Spider-Man 3 played by Bryce Dallas-Howard, and is touted as
Parker's first love. In an interview, Stone states that "Mary Jane fell
in love with Spider-Man, but Gwen Stacy fell in love with Peter
Parker". Gwen is smart, kind and funny, surely what every guy looks for
in a girl, and her role in the story is just the right size. Sure
enough, the chemistry between Stone and Garfield is among the strongest
of on screen couples in recent memory and it's no surprise that the
couple continued their romance off the set.One has to feel bad for Dylan Baker who portrayed Dr Curt Connors in
Spider-Man 2 and 3 but never got the chance to transform into the
Lizard after the cancellation of a fourth entry in Raimi's series. Rhys
Ifans fills those shoes, and he marshals a tragic figure who hopes to
better society and to fix his own perceived physical flaw. This
definitely will push the excellent actor further into public
consciousness, and he does a decent job. However, Connors' split-second
snap from rational scientist to raving mad supervillain does seem a tad
rushed and the design of the Lizard, as has been stated before, is
pretty goofy. Also, the relationship between Connors and Parker, while
given some attention here, could have benefited from a little mo re.The rest of the supporting cast is good too. Martin Sheen is easy to
buy as the earnest, down-to-earth uncle and father figure who serves as
an upstanding role model to his nephew, and so is Sally Field as his
concerned, protective wife May. Casting these veteran film industry
stalwarts was certainly a good move, especially since this retelling
doesn't particularly focus on the two but does convey their involvement
in Peter's life. Denis Leary is also well-cast as the Inspector
Javert-type Captain Stacy, who could have been an over-the-top, "squash
Spider-Man dead!" figure. Instead, Leary makes him a stern but
well-meaning authority figure and gives him a good dynamic with his
daughter and Peter. His resemblance to Willem Dafoe, aka Green Goblin
from the first Spider-Man film, is a little distracting though.In terms of aesthetics, the movie looks sleek and dramatic – director
Webb uses his ample experience shooting music videos in the right way.
While it could have been something like the horrid Catwoman movie,
there is instead clever use of lighting and composition and the action
sequences are kinetic yet coherently-shot. This reviewer isn't a giant
fan of the costume, produced by the people at Cirque du Soleil (really)
and the afore-mentioned facial features of the Lizard. The large
amounts of digital effects supplied mostly by Sony Pictures Imageworks
(also responsible for last year's Green Lantern film) are also a cut or
so below expectations for a big-budget superhero movie, but these don't
significantly hurt the end result.The film brings up the issue of Peter's parents but never fully
addresses it, with a slightly ham-fisted mid-credits sequel hook
hinting at what is to come. The Amazing Spider-Man has been marketed as
"the untold story", which is rather bold given that it's only been ten
years since Sam Raimi's Spider-Man and five years since Spider-Man 3.
Still, it defies expectations and is thoroughly entertaining. Untold
story? Not quite, but well-told story? Definitely.
