8
Chix Chat on Film Review: Prepare for take off!

Flight is the story of a commercial pilot Whip Whitaker (Denzel
Washington) who is able to land a defective plane with extraordinary
skill, maneuvering it into an inverted position in order to slow the
decent. We see this inverted flight captured in the trailer, but
believe it or not this is not the most provocative element of this
film. The story is so thought provoking that it will have you walking
out of the theater questioning whether or not you could or would choose
nobility over self-preservation. Most of what takes place behind the
scenes looming like a predator waiting to strike is the blame game,
with Whip continuously asserting that no one could have landed that
plane except him. That point is supported but it's the collateral
damage of his arrogance that is at the forefront of determining
liability. The trailer also lets the audience in on the fact that Whip
is found to have alcohol in his system as is discussed with Hugh Lang
(Don Cheadle) who is the attorney brought in to defend Whip on behalf
of the Pilot's association. Hugh was very straight and very narrow,
which was the case with most of the characters aside from Whip. It was
the dichotomy of Whip's persona so brilliantly conveyed in his
mannerisms, responses, and facial expressions that makes the
performance Oscar, Golden Globe, BET, Trumpet, Image, MTV and any other
awards worthy. If Mr. Washington had uttered eight bars I would say he
deserves a Hip Hop award or a Grammy, he was that convincing. I
recognized this person that Mr. Washington portrayed so true to life,
which is not just a testament to good writing, but mostly to the
phenomenal acting talent that is Denzel. All the characteristics that
made this individual a hero were the same characteristics that could
potentially make him infamous. I will say that I as well as many fans
am always open to greater insight into who Denzel is, however the rear
view was totally unnecessary. The film does a great job of telling a
story about the human condition, nobody is one dimensional and
sometimes extreme circumstances make you write yourself a reality
check. The question is when you cash that check will you be happy with
the results. If you have any fear of flying this is not the movie for
you. It will reinforce that fear and possibly cause you to swear off
flying altogether. I give this film a green light.
