7
Make Room for Daddy

Greetings again from the darkness. Dramatizations are at their best
when actual footage of the subject or event doesn't exist. They can be
an effective way to highlight a particularly interesting story or
person with details we might not otherwise access. Richard Kuklinski's
story is fascinating and frightening. He is known as the mob's most
prolific hit-man/contract killer. Writer/director Arial Vromen has
adapted Anthony Bruno's novel for the screen, and wisely cast Michael
Shannon in the lead. It makes a nice companion piece to the chilling
1992 documentary The Iceman Tapes: Conversations with a Killer.The movie is dominated by the hulking presence of Shannon as Richard
Kuklinski. Shannon is no match for the physical size of Kuklinski, but
his movements and the camera angles capture the powerful and imposing
monster that he was. If you are unfamiliar with Kuklinski's story, he
killed somewhere between 100-250 people. His missions were carried
forth in cold-blooded, heartless and widely disparate manners.
Additionally, he often dismembered his victims and froze bodies and
parts to prevent the actual time of death from being established. He
was good at his job, but hardly a good guy. But wait! Not so fast ...Kuklinski was also a husband a father of two daughters who made up what
appeared to be a lovely, normal family in suburban New Jersey. This guy
had an internal switch he flipped from the street to the dining room
table. When he was captured, his wife and daughter claimed they had no
clue what he did for a living (he had told them he was in Finance).
Sure, they admitted to his having a wild temper and even threatening
his wife a few times, but they never once considered that he was a
cold-blooded killer by day and neighborly barbecue dad on weekends.Winona Ryder plays Deborah, Kuklinski's wife. Before you roll your
eyes, you should know that Ryder is exceptional in the role. Her tease
in Black Swan gave us hope she had returned to form, but this turn
displays the talent we always knew was there. The always dependable and
creepy Ray Liotta is perfectly cast as Roy Demeo, the mobster for whom
Kuklinski worked. The scenes with Shannon and Liotta together are
bone-chillingly frightening. Chris Evans (light years from Captain
America) plays fellow hit-man Robert Prongay aka Mr Freezy. Kuklinski
credits Prongay with valuable insight into poison and disposal of
bodies. It's heart-warming to see that even contract killers have
support groups. Other support work comes courtesy of David Schwimmer as
Josh (Demeo's right hand man), Robert Davi (as Leonard Marks. Demeo's
link to the family head), James Franco (as one of the hits), and
Stephen Dorff as Kuklinski's incarcerated brother Joey.Childhood flashbacks give us the table-setting necessary to understand
the balance of nature v nurture in the Kuklinski household. Still, no
matter how much abuse or misery one has a child, it's difficult to
comprehend the stoic evil that possessed Kuklinski. And to be clear,
Michael Shannon's performance is his best yet ... and that is saying a
great deal. He has become one of the most interesting actors - one who
can take the lead as he does here and in Take Shelter, or as a
scene-stealing supporter in Revolutionary Road, Mud and the upcoming
Man of Steel (as General Zod). He's not a flashy actor, just an
extremely talented one.Vromen captures the gritty feel of the nearly three decades of "family"
life in a manner that reminds of Kill the Irishmen ... the Ray
Stevenson take on Danny Greene. The atmosphere and inner turmoil are
similar, but there is no comparison the Kuklinski evil. Should you
doubt this, I would highly recommend the documentary previously
mentioned. Watching the actual dead eyes of the real Richard Kuklinski
as he talks about his life is beyond horrifying.
