6
A Two Hour Preview of What to Expect in the Final Movie.

You may want to save your money and time seeing this movie and wait for
the last installment to come out next year, instead. Aside from
Jennifer Lawrence, this movie offers nothing more than just a long and
tiring tale of preparation for an impending rebellion.Readers shouldn't get surprised: Mockingjay's first half chronicles
District 13's efforts to groom Katniss as their heroine against the
ruthless ruling Capitol. The process of transforming her into what they
call the 'Mockingjay', a symbol of revolution, is engaging enough to
ignite interest, but only up to a point, when long speeches and
depictions of what the Hunger Games' downfall has caused, have almost
become the only few things eating up the biggest slice of the movie's
airtime pie. There is nothing much to see here, and while its
refreshing to finally see the landscapes to have finally shifted away
from the arenas, lack of action eventually makes the scenes that are
almost only showing the events in the confinements, hard to appreciate,
not to mention difficult to extract sense from.Fortunately, it has Jennifer Lawrence, and that alone, is enough to
pull the entire movie away whenever it leans toward making the audience
fall to sleep. Jennifer's charm proves to be the biggest asset of this
movie, and she alone, singularly saves the film from being a total
nonsense. Toward the end, it isn't clear whether the makers of the film
have made their point (aside from making more money of course) in
splitting the book into two movies. This first half only presents a
preview of what to happen next in the other half, only stretched into
two hours of tiring sameness and boring exchanges of bland dialogues.
The new characters are interesting yeah, but I'm not sure if anyone of
them has offered something more than Lawrence, to spark further
interest. Well, at least we can take comfort from the fact that the
last movie next year will certainly offer a lot more, gripping action
and drama, and that's really something to look forward to.Mockingjay Pt.1 falls below the heights reached by the previous two
films. Minus Lawrence, this film is a real bore, and its hard to seek
something more than her to recommend. I give this film 6 of my 10
stars.
