7
Surprisingly good with excellent performances, writing and camera work

I had no expectations going into this movie. I knew I like the
director, the leading actress and it had an interesting premise.
However, I was pleasantly surprised by this under-the-radar film and am
sure general audiences will as well. The Book of Henry is an
emotionally affecting film with a few fine messages about parenthood
and altruism. The movie actually surprised me. Perhaps it's because I had no prior
knowledge about it, but the twist (I don't think it's supposed to be a
twist per se) in the movie is reminiscent of Psycho, in that the
seeming protagonist has an interesting cinematic journey. That provides
the basis of our catharsis. It's actually very solid writing. We become
invested in this character who has a charm and wit about him that's
irresistibly likable and we fall for him. We become invested in his
relationships with his mother, his little brother and his neighbor. The
plot is already in motion and then the twist happens. After this twist, the true protagonist comes to the forefront and we
become invested in her because we feel for her and root for her cause.
The only issue - her cause happens to be literally unbelievable and
predictably improbable. However, we find ourselves nearly believing it.
I mean, there's a sequence that's utterly Hitchcockian, when there's
cross editing between two separate scenes. One scene is used as the
musical background for the other and the tension is palpable. It's
reminiscent of the concert scene in The Man Who Knew Too Much. It all
comes to a satisfying ending that we all knew was coming and yet, isn't
any less smile inducing. The performances are very good. Naomi Watts is one of our generation's
most consistent actors and the youngsters Jacob Tremblay and Jaeden
Lieberher hold their weight and then some. However the score and
direction deserve a lot of credit. The film is very well paced and
switches between tones so seamlessly. Never are we pulled out of the
film because it gets boring or it goes too quickly or it switches
between genres. A lot of reviews are bashing the film. Don't get me wrong, it has its
flaws. The foundation of the character is never told and is a glaring
hole. A few plot elements are improbable, definitely. However, those
are forgivable in the grand scheme. This film has charm and intrigue. I
believe it'll go down as one of those films where critics and general
audiences just don't agree. With that said, I give this movie 3 out of
5 stars and recommend it for ages 10 to 18. It can be seen at a local
theater when it opens June 16, 2017. Reviewed by Willie J., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic.
