8
A Witches Caldron Of Horror, Humor, and Hellish Delights

RECIPE: Into a large cauldron carefully separate 10 Tales. Add equal
parts of creativity and passion from Directors and Writers Neil
Marshall, Axelle Carolyn, Darren Lynn Bousman, Mike Mendez, Adam
Gierasch, Adam Kasch, Paul Solet, Lucky McKeee, Dave Parker, Ryan
Schifrin, and John Skip. Next, gently fold in the Cast, Grace Phipps,
Noah Segan, Alex Essoe, Pat Healy, Lin Shaye, Sam Witwer, Ben Woolf,
Booboo Stewart, Barry Bostwick, Keir Gilchrist, Joe Dante, and Marc
Senter. Bake for about 97 minutes. RESULT: What you'll wind up with is a perfect anthology of entertaining
stories called Tales of Halloween. Tales of Halloween has the ability to attract a wide target audience,
like it was intentionally made for everybody's enjoyment. Yet
ironically, it probably will not appeal to everyone. It's edgy material
(think Quentin Tarantino rated very R). But it's sweet too in its own
dark little way. The stories, filmed beautifully, include scary
witches, spooky ghosts, nefarious demons, the devil himself, lots of
goblins, a few serial killers and in one hilarious (and quite graphic
episode) an unexpected alien encounter with a tiny Intergalactic Trick
Or Treater! All of the Tales are profoundly entertaining and slick. My
favorite was The Night Billy Raised Hell, a very funny story about what
can happen on Halloween when you elect to "Trick" the Devil (who
coincidentally happens to live in your neighborhood). It's a fiendishly
hilarious story. But to be fair, all of the episodes are wonderful, the
cast is perfect including an unexpected cameo from Director John
Landis, and though each story is different, they seem to compliment
each other visually. Even the sound track is hugely appealing. There
are moments where surf music transports you back to The Endless Summer.
But it's not a pier the characters are shooting. It's monsters and
demons and flesh-eating pumpkins, and, occasionally, humans capping
each other. Nevertheless the sound track is so unrestrained and clever
it could stand on its own (which, incidentally, it does with a CD in
the Tales of Halloween Collector's Set). Some of the stories absolutely ooze nostalgia, like something you'd
remember from a 60's late night Creep Show on black and white
television. There's also a very thoughtful thread of artistic homage
throughout the Tales. For example, the opening sequence is reminiscent
of Tim Burton's Ed Wood, allowing the viewer to get a peek at the
running order of the upcoming episodes. Some of the tales appear to be
filmed simply for the "scare factor," while others seem to appeal to a
more dark and sardonic sense of humor. Yet they all fit nicely together
to deliver ghoulishly delightful themes of pure Halloween Horror. I think Tales of Halloween pairs very well with Michael Dougherty's
wonderful 2007 Trick 'r Treat in terms of slickness, visual quality,
engaging cast, and beautiful photography. (Oh, please Michael, give us
Trick 'r Treat 2 before you film anything else!). Tales of Halloween is
perfect for a Halloween Viewing Party with friends or just to be
watched alone. In the dark. By yourself. At your own risk. With nothing
to protect you from the clutches of Incarnate Evil except a menacing
bowl of buttered popcorn and a ridiculously heavy 36 ounce soft drink. Tales of Halloween Definitely Wants You To Have A Happy Halloween . . .
but only if you dare.
