7
The Founder (2017)

This film is not really what you expect it to be. Upon first glance at
the trailer you would think its the story of the founder of McDonalds
who comes from nothing and works hard to start a global fast food
chain. That's really not what this was about. I would say this film is
quite unique; I never expected the roots of a popular fast food chain
to get a film. I'd be lying if I said I wasn't intrigued to see the
film though. Overall, I'd say its a mixed bag with a stronger first
section than second.Michael Keaton plays Ray Kroc, a down out of luck milk shake mixer
salesman, who one day stumbles upon a restaurant owned by the McDonald
brothers. This restaurant innovative service where orders are made in
30 seconds or less, through the technical setup of equipment, staff,
and assembly line-like practices. Kroc becomes enamored with the idea
of fast food chains and eventually sets into motion multiple stores
around the country, much to the brothers behest. Kroc is not a lovable
guy at all, if anything he is an extremely selfish, self-motivated
snake who betrays his partners and family. Keaton is perfectly fine in
this yet again continuing his acting resurgence.There is betrayal and greed at every turn, thus the films marketing
doesn't prepare you for the type of greedy character seen in Kroc. It
is what it is and this is probably how many business men get ahead in
life. It was interesting to hear the McDonald brothers story and seeing
just how the first store started up. As stated earlier, the film starts
off very engaging but goes through lapses of being uninteresting
despite being in an unfamiliar place from a storytelling perspective.I wasn't sure if this was going to be one of the Oscar season pictures
but after seeing it I can see why it isn't because it becomes too
generic and doesn't really offer much worth talking about besides a
story that may be shocking to people. I'm not really sure if its a film
we needed but at the very least you may be interested to see the
history of probably the most recognizable fast food chain in the world.
They should rename this film The Thief.6.5/10
