3
quiet dull lifeless and ultimately pointless

This seems like an attempt by Coppola to make a commercial film--though
odd as it's a remake of a commercial failure. But these days anything
made once is worth remaking.The film is almost totally bland in every way. There is virtually no
music or camera movement and in a story that takes place largely in
confined spaces this is a deadly choice.It generates no momentum as it goes on and on....Coppola has no feel for the material and key changes from the original
leave plot holes--or if you prefer character motivation holes.If you've never seen the excellent original film the basic story, even
in this watered down version, could hold your interest, but it better
because this is a very polite version of a story that is far from
polite. She leaves out the slave character from the book and original
film and this is a mistake, all the mistakes like this seem to be for
the same kind of reason for fear of the film being about racism or
about sexual attraction and danger or about war and what it does to
people. For fear of the film being about anything that might offend
anyone.So she spends her time in dimly lit interiors with mostly very polite
low toned interactions between people and a music score this is a short
collection of drones that seem like music left out of some 80's horror
movie score.The movie manages to have no point of view, no central character and so
it's just hard to care.This is being sold as a thriller and she certainly has no feel for
that, the best shots in the movie are some moody southern hanging vines
and such,but when she rarely goes in for a shot of anything other than
a bland medium to long shot it seems for little purpose.She seems afraid to break an egg to make an omelet is one way to look
at it. The actors seem like they'd like to break out and get into the
movie but she refused to let them. Now is this a matter of
editing--where to bring the length down key things got left
out--perhaps, as some scenes seem to have no connection emotionally for
the people in them. Someone will be enraged, then in the next scene
perfectly calm as if nothing happened.Or is it in some failed attempt to do something different than the
original. Problem with this is when there is some perfect choice
already done well then what do have you as options? Less good choices
or just no choice is what the do here.If she wanted to make a film of the novel she hasn't, as the book is
told from different characters perspectives this could have made for an
interesting, who is really seeing the truth type of film. If that was
done you could see that one girl thinks the soldier is just trying to
exploit them for his advantage--sexual and or otherwise, while another
girl might seem him as friendly and haplessly driven by extremes of the
head mistress. This element exists to a small degree in the original film but here
it's nowhere to be seen.The film feels and mostly looks like a watered down shot on video
rather cheap TV production from 30 years ago, made by people who don't
care much for the story but are doing it because it's something to do
and let's just get it done with as little fuss as we can.A waste of time.
