6
A few genuine laughs, if you can wade through all the toilet humor.

After finding tremendous success with animated sitcoms Family Guy and
American Dad, Seth MacFarlane ventured into the realm of live-action
comedy with 2012's smash hit Ted, which featured Mark Wahlberg as a
slacker whose best friend is a sex-and-drugs-obsessed teddy bear. While
MacFarlane provided the voice and motion capture for the titular
stuffed animal, he never actually appeared in the film, but takes
center stage in his sophomore effort, A Million Ways to Die in the
West.Set in Arizona in 1882, the film stars MacFarlane as Albert Stark, a
mild-mannered sheep farmer living a mundane existence in the rough and
tumble town of Old Stump. Stark has just lost his girlfriend (Amanda
Seyfried) to a wealthy local businessman (Neil Patrick Harris), and
spends his days drinking away his sorrows with his best (and seemingly
only) friend Edward (Giovanni Ribisi) and his prostitute fiancée, Ruth
(Sarah Silverman).Meanwhile, notorious outlaw Clinch Leatherwood (Liam Neeson) has
dispatched his wife to Old Stump to await his arrival while he and the
rest of the gang pull off another stagecoach robbery. After a chance
encounter during a bar fight, Anna (Charlize Theron) takes an immediate
liking to Stark, and agrees to help him win back the heart of his lost
love, but omitting her true identity could have grave consequences when
Clinch discovers who she's spending her days with.While the plot sounds like it could have come from any number of
Western films, everything that occurs on screen is through the filter
of MacFarlane's unique sense of humor. Simultaneously poking fun at
genre tropes while also paying homage to the classics, A Million Ways
to Die in the West offers plenty to laugh at, including a hilarious
song and dance number about men's facial hair, and an absurd variety of
comedic death sequences.Unfortunately, these moments are overshadowed by the fact that most of
the film's humor is derived from the sort of R-rated content that
MacFarlane can't get away with on television. There are only so many
jokes about semen, diarrhea, and homosexuality that an audience can
absorb before these topics stops being funny, but the film continues
well past that mark, with Silverman coming across as particularly
grating. After years of the exact same schtick, haven't people grown
tired of hearing her talk about her vagina? MacFarlane has proved time and again that he can write intelligent,
thought-provoking comedy, but much like his previous film, he seems far
too willing to cast that aside in favor of dick jokes and lame attempts
to be offensive and shocking, just for the sake of being offensive and
shocking. A Million Ways to Die in the West isn't a bad film - indeed,
I think it's a vast improvement over Ted - but it's still not the
MacFarlane film that I had hoped for. He's better than this, and
hopefully we'll see that in his next flick.-- Brent Hankins, www.nerdrep.com
