1
Mirror, Mirror is just Awful, Awful!!

Mirror, Mirror is just Awful, Awful!! I am in shock and awe that this
$100 million dollar fiasco was ever given the green light to be
produced. The problems with this film are numerous; however, I will
address some of the major issues. The first and foremost problem is
CASTING!!!!! Call Julia Roberts lots of things, but you cannot call her
WICKED or VAIN!!! The story of Snow White is the story in which the
evil queen (Roberts) is so obsessed with beauty that she would spare
not means to rid the kingdom of anyone thought to be any "fairer" than
her. However, Roberts cannot pull off this role, every time she flashes
her pearly white smile, she eludes wholesome and purity and not
evilness nor malice in which the role requires. My second issue with
the film is COSTUME Design. Yes, I understand that is film is supposed
to be a fantasy/period piece;however, the costumes are so over the top;
the kingdom seems to be one step shy of the "KINGDOM of WHOVILLE" from
the movie "The Grinch". My third issue with the film would be SET
design. While the costume design went over the top, the set design was
sadly underwhelming. Every scene(except the forest set) seemed to be so
minuscule and stuffed with extras that it looked tiny on the screen.
The Kingdom looked like a 16x16 seedy alley way, while the "Royal
Wedding" looked to be hosted in a Coleman pup tent!!! However, my
number 1 issue with the film had to be director Tarsem Singh's vision.
Was this film supposed to be a comedy, a fantasy, an adventure, or a
Bollywood reincarnation of a beloved fairy tale... I have no idea; and
after watching this film, neither did he. I know that Hollywood offers
very little for the wholesome family audience to venture out to see;
but it would be shameful for me to recommend this film, which I cannot.
Save your money, this film with quickly end up in the Walmart Bargain
Bin or the Walgreen Redbox $1 Rentals. P.S. Please do not get me
started on the Cirque du Solei Dwarfs; and the Bollywood production
number at the films end....... Enough Said! Please read more of my
reviews at THE FARIS REEL on Facebook.
