3
An Obnoxiously Tedious Exercise in Bad Satire, Bad Parody, and Bad Humor

Let me start off this review by saying I like Seth Rogen. I like
low-brow, shock humor. I love biting satire. By all metrics, I
should've been the target audience for this film. But I couldn't
remember the last time a movie actually made me as angry as I felt
watching Sausage Party.Look, I *get* what this movie was trying to do. Really, I do. Its
admirable ambition is the ONLY reason I give it a 3/10 and not a 1. But
it fails in every place it was trying to succeed. Let me explain.1. It fails as a send-up of saccharine Pixar animated films. Parody
really is an art form of its own. To do it well, the medium needs to
look and feel - at first blush - like something sincere, which allows
the artist to invert expectations of the audience (thus, humor). Just
look at the best satire: The Onion takes on the tone of a daily
newspaper; Young Frankenstein feels like a classic horror film; Weird
Al Yankovic sounds like the musicians he parodies. Parody requires a
nuanced and keen understanding of whatever source material it's
sending-up.Sausage Party seems to think it's a Pixar parody because it a) uses
inanimate objects as characters, and b) is animated. But that's not
what makes Pixar movies Pixar movies. They have emotion, they have
clever characters, and they make unexpected and subtle observations on
humanity.The closest Sausage Party came to giving us Pixar-inspired characters
were the queer taco and the Stephen Hawking-esque piece of chewed up
gum, and neither is on screen long enough to carry the film. The rest
of the "parody" is dependent on the fact that animation as a medium is
most commonly used for children's entertainment, and Sausage Party
clearly isn't for children. If that's parody, then it's parody in its
laziest, most artificial form.2. It fails as shock humor. I get that this is subjective and everyone
has their own meter for "what is shocking," but I'm going to go out on
a limb and say no one over the age of 11 thinks cartoon characters
being vulgar is shocking. South Park busted down that barrier two
decades ago. Adult Swim has been around for almost as long. In a world
of Borat, 4chan, and There's Something About Mary, if you want to go
for pure shock laughs, you need a lot more than f-bombs and sex puns.That being said, for shock humor to actually be, well, shocking, it
needs to come as a surprise. If the entire film beats you over the head
with profanity, drug references, and wiener jokes, then it by
definition can't be shocking. It simply becomes tedium.3. It fails as commentary on organized religion. This was probably the
most disappointing failure because the idea that humans are gods over
food and food has to tell themselves the gods are bringing them to a
"great beyond" to give their lives meaning is indeed a clever concept.
There was an opportunity for Rogen n Co to make an anti- Veggie Tales
that could've been something sharp and brilliant. But it just so poorly
done.Matt Stone and Trey Parker did the anti-belief message beautifully in
The Book of Mormon. In it, the characters grow to question their faith,
and their new-found skepticism pays off with a unique and clever spin
at the end (with lots of smart laughs along the way).In Sausage Party, on the other hand, instead of using religious
skepticism as a vehicle for character development, it was more the bow
that tied a bunch of juvenile jokes to some pseudo-intelligent theme.
There was no organic transformation. It was a forced conclusion to
justify ending on an orgy (because ultimately nothing really matters
and all we have is joy and pleasure in this life yadda yadda ya get
it?! GET IT?!?)The fact Sausage Party had such potential makes the results all the
more annoying. In more skilled hands it really could've been a fun,
acerbic send-up of Pixar AND religion. Instead, what we have is an
over-long, single-joke animated SNL skit with all the charm and
brilliance of a jackhammer. Painful.
