2
There are none so blind as those who will not see

12 Years a Slave — a biopic about a black fiddler in NY who somehow
wound up a slave in Louisiana from 1841 until the law rescued him in
1853—is the nearly universally acclaimed front runner for the Best
Picture Oscar. Yet it's built upon a fourth-rate screenplay that might
have embarrassed Horatio Alger.12 Years a Slave is hailed by critics as a long-awaited breakthrough
that finally dares to mention the subject of slavery after decades of
the entertainment industry being controlled by the South.The message behind the ongoing enshrinement of the rather amateurish 12
Years a Slave is that the cultural whippings of white folk for the sins
of their long dead ancestors will stubbornly continue on until morale
improves. The formula: Stoke it, package it, market it.Steve McQueen directs the film in a sort of minor league Passion of the
Christ manner. Some of the appeal to critics is that Northern whites
are shown as saints of racial sensitivity in the film's preposterous
first 20 minutes.12 Years a Slave opens in 1841 with Northup being effusively admired by
his white neighbors in Saratoga, NY. Northup is a model of ridiculous
bourgeois respectability, always doffing his top hat to his white peers
while out riding with his family in an elegant carriage.How could he afford that? Well, actually, he didn't and couldn't. A
glance at Northup's ghostwritten 1853 memoir makes clear that in 1841,
rather than being a pillar of this Yankee community, he was an
unemployed fiddler dragged down by his own "shiftlessness."In McQueen's often baffling movie, this respectable family man suddenly
decides to run off to join the circus with two fast-talking white men
without even leaving a note for his wife. Later, while dining in an
elegant Washington, DC restaurant with his new friends, he suddenly
takes ill and wakes up in chains.Ironically, his poor family never reported or even guessed that he'd
been kidnapped. They apparently assumed that vanishing was just the
kind of thing he'd do.When word of his kidnapping finally arrived home in 1853, top officials
in both NY and Louisiana were dismayed by the trick played upon this
freeborn citizen and worked together to quickly have him released.Interestingly, it was widely believed that Northup had conspired with
his white cronies to defraud slave owners of their purchase price by
attempting to pull a con on them. Reminiscent of the 1971 comedy Skin
Game, starring James Garner and Louis Gossett, Jr. as traveling
grifters in 1858 where Garner repeatedly sells Gossett into slavery and
then helps him escape.Northup's hometown newspaper, the Saratoga Press, surmised that Northup
had been an accomplice in a scam gone awry:"…it is more than suspected that Northup was an accomplice in the sale,
calculating to slip away and share the spoils, but that the purchaser
was too sharp for him, and instead of getting the cash, he got
something else."This theory that Northup was a man of dubious character rather than the
tediously upright one depicted in the movie might explain another
puzzling aspect of his tale: how little help he got from his fellow
slaves. In general, the other slaves as display remarkably little human
warmth toward Northup. They mostly act completely indifferent whenever
he is around.When Northup finally arrived home, an abolitionist politician hired
David Wilson to be his ghostwriter. Wilson wrote Northup's story in his
own style, and they hit it big in the slave-narrative craze that
followed the 1852 publication of Uncle Tom's Cabin. Not many were sold,
but more than enough to launch Northup on the abolitionist lecture
circuit.Predictably, Northup disappeared from history four years later. Those
who knew him best seem to have assumed that he had become a "worthless
vagabond," as his wife's obituary bluntly phrased it. Almost all of
this is left out of the movie as being far too interesting for Oscar
Bait.I suppose Third-rate Victorian literature such as Wilson's version of
Northup's memoir is tolerable today if the author understands his
limitations. Most of the first-person narration is thankfully
utilitarian. Only occasionally does Wilson have Northup reminisce in
the grand Victorian manner: "Now had I approached within the shadow of
the cloud, into the thick darkness whereof I was soon to disappear,
thenceforward to be hidden from the eyes of all my kindred, and shut
out from the sweet light of liberty, for many a weary year."Indeed, on the rare occasions when Wilson quotes Northup's utterances,
the slave speaks in a more plausible fashion, such as, "There is nobody
I want to write to, 'cause I ain't got no friends living as I know of."Unfortunately, Ridley's adaptation takes its inspiration for its
made-up dialog from the worst prose in the book. Since it would be
racist for Ridley to show slaves ending their sentences with
prepositions, they instead orate pompous speeches toward each other,
like Prime Minister Gladstone addressing Queen Victoria. As the hero,
Ejiofor labors to bring life to these lines, with indifferent, if not
comical success.Hollywood has been waving its celluloid wand over history since its
inception. Unfortunately, studio contrived "reality" usually wins the
emotional battle over the truth --even for those with more than a
tenuous understanding of the world around them. It's all part of the
ongoing, and successful campaign keep all critical theory groups in
their respective consensus trances; instilling grievance focused
identities in blacks, and derivative guilt syndrome in whites. I
suppose once all the altruistic white people who fall for sympathetic
pleas of universal equality have been eliminated via natural selection,
blacks will spontaneously adopt their innate, but perpetually oppressed
Western sensibilities and go on to build flourishing, first world
Utopias? Coming soon to a theater near you!
