10
Good Tales Be Told By Dead Men

After the ordeal of On Stranger Tides comes a sequel that sets sails in
a truly amazing and beautiful fashion.First off the film is a great send up compared to the weakest link in
the series, On Stranger Tides. The cast, effects, and story line are
great. The film as a whole is amazing. Once again we get Johnny Depp as the ever funny and intoxicated Captain
Jack Sparrow. His performance is hilariously outrageous. He is very
good and funny within the film. Unlike his performance in Stranger
Tides his acting a characterization of the titular captain seems to
have great passion and not the feeling of a called in performance. Again my personal favorite character returns to the 5th film is
Geoffrey Rush as the amazingly interesting Captain Hector Barbossa.
Within the Hector still rides high as the captain at the helm of the
Queen Ann's Revenge. When we meet up with him in the film he has become
very wealthy and rich from trade and knocking off ships. He then joins
a false alliance with the films hardcore villain, Captain Salazar.
Rush's performance as the titular captain is great and very touching. A
sad note for many including me is that this is barbossa's last
appearance in the series. He dies towards the end of the film, in a
very courageous and brave manor, trying to save his long lost daughter
Carina Smith, played by Kaya Scodelario.Next We get are new villain, Captain Salazar, played by Javier Bardem.
Bardem's performance as the tortured Captain Salazar is one for the
ages. His performance is gut renchingly creepy and at the same time
sympathetic in a dark sort of way. His story goes like this, he was a
might Spanish general who hunted and killed thousands of pirates across
the sea. During one of his showdowns he was confronted by a very young
(Thanks to great CGI) Jack Sparrow. He is then tricked by Jack and his
ship is sent into the Devil's Triangle where he and his crew are cursed
to stay forever, or at least until Jack screws up and let's them free.Will Turner and Elizabeth Swan return for a very brief time span in
this entry but their presence is very well known. Keira Knightly and
Orlando Bloom return as their titular characters from the previous
installments. Will, now five years after 16 years after he became the
captain of the Flying Dutchman is covered in barnacles and coral, still
not as bad as old fish face, Davy Jones. Keira Knightley shows up
towards the climax of the movie where here and will can finally reunite
again after the trident of Poseidon is broken and all of the curses in
the see are destroyed. Though they are in the film for a very brief
time frame their presence is quite uplifting and good, a true treat
would be to see them have bigger roles in up incoming installments. Are new characters are Brenton Thwaites and of course Kaya Scodelario
as the two young leads of the film. Thwaite's plays Henry Turner, the
son of Will and Elizabeth, who in the film is sixteen. Within the film,
he wants to free his father from the dreaded curse of being bound to
the Dutchman. In doing so he needs the trident of Poseidon. Thwaite's
plays Henry in a very natural way. He seems in place in the film and
does a very good job. Then we have Kaya Scodelario as Carina Smith.
Smith is a women of science. She believes in the simple and factual way
of life. Later in the film we learn that she is the daughter of
Barbossa, who had her at a very young age along time ago. Their
relationship, Geoffrey Rush's and Kaya Scodelario's is very sweet and
subtle. through the film you can feel Barbossa's pain of knowing who
his daughter is and her not knowing who her father is. Scodelario plays
Carina superbly and is one the new standout performances. On a minor charter level we have a new British antagonist, General
Scarfeild played by the brilliant and underrated Australian actor David
Whenham. Though in the film for a short period, Scarfeild is an
interesting charter and chews the scenes he is in. Another new charter
is the films new voodoo witch played by Golihifteh Farahani. In the
film she is the friend of Barbossa and give him valuable information.
She is creepy and interesting as her character. From a film making stand point, the film looks great. The colors in the
film are magnificent, the ships and sea faring parts are extraordinary,
and the special effects are freaking amazing, Salazar and his crew are
beautiful in a creepy dead rotted pirate way. The two new directors did
a very good job, way better then Rob Marshall directing On Stranger
Tides. On an overall look, Pirate of the Caribbean 5: Dead Men Tell No Tales
is an amazing film. The acting is spectacular. The Visuals are splendid
and the story is very impressive. I loved the film, my one complaint
would be that Barbossa Dies. He was my favorite character in the
series. Well, anyways, the film was a great fun-filled ride and i
personally can't wait until the next one. Rest in Peace Captain Barbossa, until we meet again!Two-Peg legs up!
