8
If you love cinema, you'll love this - 8/10

I do understand why people hate it, that also means that I understand
why people love it because I am one of them.This movie was shot by cinematographer Larry Smith who also worked with
Kubrick on 'Eyes wide shut', he made an extraordinary job shooting this
picture because it was mesmerizing and beautiful to watch from the
beginning to the end. It was also an amazing movie experience, it's one
of those movies that you just give yourself over to. If you are a fan
of movies and a fan of Nicolas Winding Refn then I think you will
absolutely love this. I read that a lot of people are complaining about this movie being thin
on story and whatnot, well, let me put it like this; if Refn wanted a
"story" he would give it a "story". He doesn't have anything to prove
on that point because he already showed us that he can do it if he
wants to, and I think once you let go of that then it will be a lot
more easier to enjoy and experience this movie because it is a movie
that is based on ideas which is clearly what Nicolas Winding Refn is
focusing on rather than having a moving plot or story.The atmosphere in this movie was really something, it was almost as if
you were a part of it thanks to this movie being very slow paced, and
that's why I've always been a big fan of slow-paced movies. "Chang",
who is "God", was so coldblooded that even I as a viewer felt that it
will be impossible for "Julian" to actually try to kill him - and then
that last fighting sequence came. All the actors did a very good job
and gave convincing performances, meaning that they didn't have to do
more than what was already in the film. And I loved the fact that our
protagonist got beaten down to a point where we couldn't see his normal
face, and I liked the relationship that Julian (Ryan Gosling) and
Crystal had (Kristen Thomas) because I could feel that strange
mother-to-son love type of relationship even though it was very tense,
that probably has to do with good chemistry between the two actors.
This movie also had very good soundtracks which added another great
layer to it. I guess if David Lynch were to make an extremely violent
movie, I think it would look something like this, there were indeed
some Lynch-moments in there and some Kubrick shots which I absolutely
loved. As much as this movie made me cringe I could not stop enjoying
it, it was all in a positive way. I think Refn at one point called this
a Thai-western about a man who is fighting against god, and I couldn't
stop thinking about that whilst I was watching it because that's
exactly what it is.People can trash this movie all they want, we even had two people
walking out of the theater. But the fact that some critics gave it a
100/100 and others gave it below 50/100 should tell you a lot. But at
the end of the day, I think if you really want to know what you think
of this film, you will have to go and see it for yourself.
