3
takes the audience for a fool

Doctor Strange was a painful movie to watch. Almost forcing myself to sit through the end, I fought the urge to
leave the cinema half way and go home. Now, just to put it out there,
this may just apply to me because people have different values they
look for in a movie, and I just happen to value story, above
everything. Because that's what movies are, visual stories.Visual effects alone have a limit to which they can entrance the
audience. The CG was stunningly beautiful in Dr. Strange, with
buildings folding, twisting, and morphing into unimaginable ways. The
first time it occurred ( the first ten minutes of the movie) I was
struck with awe. But it got old, really fast. Why? Because they lacked
logic. I don't mean logic as in, 'oh that can't happen in real life?'
but as in 'if he elongated the hallways so that Dr. Strange can't run
away before, so why doesn't he do that now, instead of throwing random
things at him that he can obviously avoid?" Yes, I'm talking about the
inconsistency of the characters' abilities to manipulate space just for
the sake of 'plot.' Oh no, the villain is going to become very weak all
of a sudden just so that Dr. Strange can get away, just because he's
the main character! Not to mention that although, the ancient one got
her powers from Dormamu, she can't beat Kaecilius at the beginning of
the movie.Well, this severely weakened the credibility of the plot, but this
isn't the only reason why I would give the story a 1/10. One of the
first scenes of the movie (To be honest I can't remember if it was the
first scene or the second one, that's how memorable the movie is to me)
is of the ancient one trying to catch Kaecilius who steals a few pages
from her book and kills the guard. Of course, here I thought,
'obviously the whole movie is going to be about trying to stop the evil
guy that stole the page from using the pages to do something terrible
to the world, maybe even word annihilation.' and as immediately as that
thought occurred to me, I became terrified that I would have to sit
through 2 hours of a very very cliché plot. I tried to doubt myself, I
really did, and throughout the film, until the very end, I kept hoping
for the best, 'okay, there's going to be a plot twist. Any time now,
any time. Surely a movie can't be this cliché, right?' but it was just
that cliché. And when the movie ended, I was furious.The amazing graphics and fantastic actors (I am a very big fan of
Benedict Cumberbatch, especially because I love the Sherlock series)
was absolutely undermined and practically thrown in the trash because
of the ridiculous, overdone story line. The movie basically ridiculed
the audience and their level of intelligence, by making us sit through
two hours worth of scenes so flashy and meaningless and hoping that
they would enjoy the special effects like some new born baby or an
extremely complex artist that only pursuits aesthetics for a living.
Not to mention that I had the biggest migraine ever after the whole
fiasco ended.Avatar, was an amazing movie because it had everything; it had
originality/creativity, meaning, and steady natural development of
characters. The amazing CG effects that blew the world at the time it
came out was only able to shine because of everything else in the
movie. That's what makes a classic. In comparison, Dr. Strange was just
a bundle of mess with too rapid character development without any base,
(why does Dr. Strange suddenly decide to get involved in the magical
world? There were implied and LITTLE explicit reasons, but they were
definitely not explored in enough depth to convince the audience) and
the romance was so rapid and so cliché it almost seemed like there was
no point to it, except to show the audience how much Dr. Strange
matures, but again, how he matures is barely touched upon (apparently
if you just train a few months and fight with a villain you just mature
all of a sudden?) Maybe I shouldn't be tied to story so much when the movie is produced
by marvel, after all. But I sat through all the avengers movies just
fine, although they weren't exactly my cup of tea. This movie though,
it was just so bad I had to write a review.I may be missing something huge in the movie here, and maybe that's why
I am so thoroughly disappointed and maybe even disgusted with the
movie. If that's indeed the case, please don't hesitate to point it out
and enlighten me on what exactly I missed that makes the movie so
great.Thanks for reading.
