9
Most Explosive MI, Yet.

Even two hours won't be enough for "Mission: Impossible - Rogue
Nation'" to be able to unravel all its exhilaratingly high-octane
action and drama. This fifth installment in the franchise surges with
death-defying action proceedings, riveting and pulsing with the
relentlessness and explosiveness of its spiking adrenaline, to deliver
the franchise's most thrilling outing, yet.That relentlessness is true and screaming right at the opening sequence
of the film, where IMF agent, Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise), is seen dangling
from the door of an airbus, already adrift in the air as it ascends
even further to the skies. That's the first of too many, and you
wouldn't care less of the logic behind such impossible knockout stunt
demonstrations, because once the momentum crashes past the
speedometer's limit, there's no other choice left but to get consumed
by the electrifying influx of near-impossible action setpieces. This
doesn't mean there's barely any sense to take in, in fact you would be
awed to realize that in spite of its speed and strength-defying
physicalities, characterizations are still working along the explosive
chaos, and the behavior of the characters, and the emotional aspect of
the narrative, still follows acceptable reasoning.The whole of 'Rogue Nation' can be seen as Hunt's team desperate
attempt to keep IMF running, and save it, and the world it intends to
protect, from extinction. This time, the major figure of terror, is the
mysterious organization, 'The Syndicate', headed by the despicably
steel-fisted Solomon Lane (Sean Harris) . Ethan is joined by co-IMF
agent, William Brandt (Jeremmy Renner), and suspicious British agent,
Ilsa Faust (Rebecca Ferguson). The comic effort comes mostly from
Hunt's sidekick, Benji (Simon Pegg), and Brandt, who spends most of the
time running and chasing after the shadow-terrorist group, The
Syndicate.Much of the movie's strength emanates from its seemingly unstoppable
delivery of edge-of-your-seat action, but you can't ignore the grandeur
of its camera shots and the palatable efforts of its lead characters
and supports. There's much to say about how inconsistent and illogical
some of the narrative choices that the screenwritersn took are, but
they get overshadowed by the more relevant, and on this case, more
effectively utilized, high-tension action extravaganza.One can inevitably notice how Cruise has aged through the franchise's
almost two-decade history. He's more tired-looking here, but you can't
question his commitment to the franchise. In 'Rogue Nation', he's
definitely back, running after, and wrestling against, the equally
desperate claws of 'The Syndicate'. He hops across the world to trump
the enemy, and in every city, he inevitably gets himself involved in
deadly strangulations. At such moments, cinematography is top notch,
and the breathtaking panorama becomes an exquisite backdrop for the
ever-imminent rumbles. This is where this installment is strongest and
most engaging, a strength that should warrant a sixth outing.
