7
A heartfelt, sincere romantic drama comedy film

Based on the 2004 romance novel 'Where Rainbows End' written by Cecilia
Ahern, Love, Rosie is about a story of two people who were best friends
since they were young. They've known each other for so long and they're
absolutely meant for each other, but could never have the courage to
admit that they have strong feelings for each other. Furthermore, life
is not always how we expect or want it to be, as various unforeseen
circumstances or misunderstandings continuously keeps them apart from
each other.Love, Rosie have the same typical flaws that many romantic drama
comedies have: several unavoidable clichés and contrivances, a
predictable ending. However, as in all romantic comedies, it's the
whole journey that truly matters. The film takes the audience through
the ups and downs of their relationships and how it affects their
friendship over the years. Things didn't happen the way you expected
them to be on some occasions, which is rather surprising and refreshing
at the same time. The film is filled with occasionally nice witty jokes
and heartwarming moments, combine with charming, likable performances
from the lead characters. The two leads have great chemistry on screen
and it gives the believable feeling that they've known each other for
years.There's a real genuine, non-manipulative, non-domineering relationship
between the leads as we witness several loving, selfless acts on both
sides when tragedy strikes one of them. However, I have to admit that
there's a rather unrealistic depiction about this "friendship" - men
and women can't be close friends because the sex part always gets in
the way (A famous quote from another romantic comedy film, When Harry
Meets Sally...). In reality, it's virtually impossible that a
beautiful, attractive young lady can be close friends with a strikingly
handsome man without hardly any sexual tension at all, especially when
both of them are heterosexuals and they've never think of each other as
siblings either.Overall, the film succeeds in finding the heart and soul for its
characters for the audience to relate with, despite its shortcomings.
It's a lovely, heartfelt film that doesn't disappoint and it's well
worth a watch. Rating: 7.5/10
http://yjcool.blogspot.com/2014/11/movie-review-love-rosie.html
