1
Not the Movie I Paid to See

CRITIQUE 



1. If you want to know what this movie is about, then simply watch Star 

Wars Episode IV (A New Hope), because the story is nearly verbatim with 

elements thrown in from episodes V and VI for good measure.



2. The leads who take the rein from the old Star Wars Universe are: 

Hispanic, black, and a woman. There is nothing wrong with this in and 

of itself, but when it is done simply to be politically correct, then 

the story suffers. I think one critic describes this best when she 

said, "For the first time in Star Wars history, a franchise will be 

built around the adventures of the sort of people that Hollywood 

routinely overlooks: women and people of color. So even if The Force 

Awakens sucks, it's made one big diverse achievement for Hollywood." 

This means the only place you will see an honest review of this movie 

is in the user reviews here at IMDb



3. Luke is now Obi Wan, his long lost daughter is the new hope, and his 

nephew is the new Darth Vader



4. They broke nearly every rule established by the original Star Wars. 

Jedi talent no longer takes years of training, nor does one need to be 

strong with the force to hold his own in a light saber battle against a 

trained Sith lord, etc.



WHAT THEY COULD HAVE DONE



There are 100 places they could have taken this story. They could have 

made Jar Jar a secret Sith lord who was playing dumb all these years, 

they could have worked in elements of Star Wars Rebels and made Ezra a 

Sith lord, or they could have had it where Luke turned to the dark 

side. I even heard early rumors that they were going to have Finn find 

Luke's severed hand with a light saber in it.



To me, it would have made the most sense to do a story where the 

Republic is now the political force of the Galaxy and the First Order 

are the rebels. Luke could have been training a new Jedi order and they 

could have shown a growing Sith threat, with a real villain and not the 

weanie in panties that we got in this movie, throughout the battles 

with the First Order. They could have made Hans more distinguished 

(after all he was a King and it's been 30 years, so he should have 

grown up by now). Instead, we got the same Han Solo from 1975 but who 

looked 40 years older and disheveled. I'm sure Harrison Ford had no 

intention of doing another Star Wars movie and insisted that this would 

be the last one. So he would have been killed off no matter what. 

However, it could have been far less predictable and more creative and 

touching. If they wanted to keep the story line they went with, then 

they still could have started this way and shown how Kylo Rey was 

turning to the dark side.



Any of these would have been far better than the trash I saw tonight. 

It's amazing how I could think of these story lines (as I'm sure can 

1000s of other Star Wars fans) but none of the so called talented 

writers, producers, and directors in Hollywood can do this? This simply 

amounts to lazy writing and oversight.



CONCLUSION



Because everything was so predictable and the story was a rehash of 

what we already saw, the movie was BORING! It's amazing how Hollywood 

can continue to put out movies like this, cheat their viewers, and then 

wonder in astonishment why everyone stays home to stream or pirate 

movies. Maybe it's because more and more movies these days simply 

support overpaid political activists whose only creative effort is to 

make a political statement at the expense of entertainment.



I'm done with Star Wars. I don't need to see episodes VIII or IX, 

because I already know what is going to happen. Episode VIII and IX 

will be remakes of the Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi with 

Ren as Luke, Luke as Obi Wan, and Kylo Rey as Darth Vader. I'm sure 

VIII will have the surprise statement by Kylo Rey when he battles Ren 

saying, "Ren, I am your cousin," and IX will end with Ren bringing Rey 

to the good side with little furry creatures celebrating in tree tops 

and the ghosts of Luke and Han looking approvingly over the scene. 

Yeah, been there done that, there is no sense in my wasting money or 

time to do it again.



Star Wars is Dead! Thanks Disney and Abrams and you politically correct 

whackos. Thanks a lot!



A NOTE ON POSITIVE REVIEWS



After reading many of the positive reviews, I can only come to the 

conclusion that 1/3 of them are written by hard core Star Wars fans who 

will rave about anything with the "Star Wars" logo attached to it and 

will refuse to their dying day that they were wrong about this movie, 

1/3 by people who never saw Star Wars and accept this cheap rip off 

because it is the only version of the story they have seen, and 1/3 by 

studio hacks.



The positive reviewers have also resorted to calling the negative 

reviewers "Haters." It's amazing how convenient it is today for people 

to throw that word around to discredit anyone who has a differing 

opinion. That should tell you everything you need to know about the 

character and honesty of the positives reviewers.
