8
The First Big Screen Adventure of Captain Underpants is Beautiful, Funny and Pretty Weird

*Minor Spoilers Ahead* George (Kevin Hart) and Harold (Thomas
Middleditch) are two elementary school kids that write and animate
comic books in their tree house. Their favourite character is Captain
Underpants and we get an introduction to his comic origin in the
beginning. Moving back to George and Harold, their friendship is as
close as it gets and they spend their days making these comics and
pulling pranks on the faculty. To any adult looking in, they're a pain
to deal with but they bring life to their dull and dreary environment.
Principal Krupp (Ed Helms) definitely is in the camp that believes that
these two are a menace and he makes it his goal to put an end to their
shenanigans. He's unable to catch them in the act so he has to endure
their constant misadventures until the school tattletale Milton (Jordan
Peele) records them messing with his project for the science fair.
Krupp sees this as the opportunity to move them into separate classes,
effectively destroying their friendship. There's little hope but in an
act of desperation, George tries to hypnotize Krupp using a Hypno-Ring
that he found in his cereal. Against all the odds, it actually works
and he falls under their command. They come up with the idea to turn
him into Captain Underpants. It works but Krupp gallops out of the
office to fight evil with George and Harold running behind him trying
to get a handle on the situation.I got a chance to read a few of the books when I was younger and while
they're very much geared towards kids, the books were pretty funny and
surprisingly creative. To my surprise, they change the story around a
little but Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie is very faithful to
Dave Pilkey's work. The characters all have the same spirit, the
message of the books carry over and perhaps most importantly, the movie
shares the same adventurous sense of humour. I was laughing constantly
in this movie despite being an adult and most of the kids in the
theatre were laughing along with me. The movie has a very fast pace and
the jokes are firing at a mile a minute clip. On the downside though,
although I thought this was one of the funniest animated movies I've
seen in a while, it is definitely more geared towards kids. There's a
lot of potty humour and while they pay respect to the Captain
Underpants books by including so much of it, there's only so many times
you can laugh at Professor Poopypants as an adult. I was familiar with
the material so I knew what to expect but to the uninitiated it might
be a tad jarring. Some great kids movies include some jokes to tide the
adults over, this movie has some meta humour but there's not as much as
I would have liked.While the plot of the movie is pretty simple and it's carried by the
comedy, the animation is awesome. Dreamworks really did a great job of
following the art style of the books but presenting a great looking
movie. It reminded me a lot of the Peanuts Movie that was put out by
Blue Sky Studio in 2015 (I mean that as a big compliment). It's hard to
find a balance between calling back to the source yet compete in a
crowded big budget animated movie market. Dreamworks normally deliver
solid entertainment but I was pretty blown away by what they
accomplished with this property.Looking at the voice acting talent, you've got some big names filling
these roles which is typical of Dreamworks. I wasn't sure that Kevin
Hart and Thomas Middleditch would work given that their characters are
supposed to be kids. But they were both really good and they both
flawlessly delivered the jokes yet brought warmth to their characters.
Ed Helms was impressive as Principal Krupp/Captain Underpants. I
wouldn't have though he'd be a talented voice actor but he definitely
got the job done. Nick Kroll is fresh off Sausage Party and after this
I think he's definitely becoming an authority in this area. Jordan
Peele and Kristen Schaal round out a solid voice cast and they were
good in their supportive roles.I think my favourite part of this movie was the fact that it wasn't
afraid to be really weird. They don't just stick to conventional
animation or conventional storytelling. We get portions of the story
told through George and Harold's comics, sock puppets and regular
puppets. They have different animation asides and they even incorporate
one of my favourite parts of the books in something that was completely
unexpected (I can't spoil what). They also have parts where they break
4th wall and explain things to the audience directly. I loved those
aspects of Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie and it helped make
things different and memorable.This movie won't be everyone's favourite movie and I can completely
understand that. This is going to work for kids and adults who remember
these books but this movie also puts in way more effort than it had to.
The movie even has a decent message of friendship and trying to look at
issues from different sides. This isn't Dreamworks best movie (I would
still give that to the original How to Train Your Dragon) but I would
put among their best movies ever. If you're a fan of Captain Underpants
you're going to love this and I think you'll get enough out of this
that it won't be a pain to see this with the kids.
