8
Is that even legal??

Hangover/Due Date director Todd Philipps makes a film base on the true
story of young, entrepreneur gun-runners David Parkouz and Efraim
Diveroli who managed to secure a ridiculous contract to supply arms to
the afghan army via the pentagon. Miles Teller plays the struggling and ambitious David who bumps into
his childhood buddy Efraim played by Jonah Hill who is somewhat of the
opposite, a loose cannon, fearless and a little trigger-happy. Now,
Efraim has found himself a little niche in the market, the market of
arms dealing and strikes up small deals with the US military. David
needs a job to support his expecting girlfriend, the stunning Ana de
Armas who looks a little like Penelope Cruz only more beautiful and has
one of those exotic accents. Efraim sees an opportunity for David and
the two team up to what leads to the deal of the century for all
parties involved. Now, the film has plenty of other film references most notably
Scarface, even one of the promotional posters is a respectful nod to
the DePalma/Pacino's film. But it's actually Lord of War Efraim is a
huge fan of in real-life and it's probably more like Lord of War than
Scarface, yet it has tinge of Pain & Gain, another crazy true story
movie. Maybe it's Miami? But it has that vibrant and funny yet serious
storytelling style that makes the film almost unbelievable and
shocking. The rest of the cast does include Bradley Cooper who also produced the
film, playing the harden, borderline war-criminal, pretty much the
Branson of the arms market and someone you don't really want to be
messing with. There's Kevin Pollack playing the bankroll and an awesome
cameo of venture capitalist playboy millionaire Dan Bilzerian. It's accompanied by a great soundtrack with tracks from 50cent, Beastie
Boys, Iggy Pop, UB40 and CCR but the awesome score threw me completely
thinking it was Harry Gregson-Williams or Steve Jablonski, no, it was
Cliff Martinez with those ambient sounds. The film is highly entertaining, funny in parts but this is not a
comedy; its perfectly paced with some great scenes like the duo
gun-running across the triangle of death and some nice camera work.
However it's not to epic portions, not that it should put anyone off
watching this, it's still a very watchable and enjoyable film and I
don't think they could have done it any better. Running Time: 8 The Cast: 8 Performance: 8 Direction: 8 Story: 8
Script: 8 Creativity: 8 Soundtrack: 9 Job Description: 8 The Extra
Bonus Points: 5 for a slick story, good editing and a great
score/soundtrack to boot. 78% 8/10
