6
Clichéd and too familiar but entertaining and sweet

"I will look, if you'll look"-ChantryIt's been a long while since i first heard of the this film, it was
more than a year ago when it premiered at Toronto. God damn it's been a
year and this year's edition is already gone. It's the biggest film
festival of the year, of all the pictures that were there i have now
seen a massive fifty, which tells a lot about the Festival's quality
(since most were good). Though more than done a year ago, the film has
only been recently released with a nice warm embrace from critics and
audiences. I didn't expect one of the year's best but still hoped it
would be a worthy romantic comedy.What If is Directed by Michael Dowse and it stars Daniel Radcliffe, Zoe
Kazan, Rafe Spall, Megan Park, Adam Driver, Jemima Rooper and Sarah
Gadon. "WHAT IF is the story of medical school dropout Wallace, who's
been repeatedly burned by bad relationships. So while everyone around
him, including his roommate Allan seems to be finding the perfect
partner, Wallace decides to put his love life on hold. It is then that
he meets Chantry an animator who lives with her longtime boyfriend Ben.
Wallace and Chantry form an instant connection, striking up a close
friendship. Still, there is no denying the chemistry between them,
leading the pair to wonder, what if the love of your life is actually
your best friend?"Well What If does end up being a worthy romantic comedy i guess. This
meaning that's entertaining and charming enough to be worth a watch, no
questions asked but i don't really know if it can be much more. I did
have an overall good time with it, the movie has enough laughs and the
stars are quite brilliant too, the thing though is that i felt as
though i had already seen it. This is a fine time at the movies but it
does feel way too predictable and overly familiar.It makes me sad not to really like this feature because, you know, i
actually really wanted to. Mainly because of the two leads who are
quite charismatic and have a good on screen chemistry, but also because
it's so clear that the film's intentions are good and that made me
overlook some flagrant flaws. And the movie has many of those.I'm having a battle within me right now, a battle between my cynical
and cold side who thinks (and rightfully so) that this picture is way
too familiar and foreseeable and the other side of me who was quite
entertained and charmed by these characters and performances. In the
end i think i met somewhere in the middle. Because albeit this is
always an enjoyable film to be watching, i did get some moments where i
couldn't help but to roll my eyes. It's full of clichés and it's a
shame. Full of sub-plots (and the premise too) and supporting
characters that felt way too conventional and plain. I mean really the
supporting characters though amusing, are little more than card board
pieces in the movie's screenplay.So yeah the film is basically saved by it's two lead performances from
Potter Daniel Radcliffe and Ruby Sparks Zoe Kazan. I really liked both
here and i thought they were also good together on screen. Radcliffe
plays his characters well, never makes him too weird or annoying, he
gets the right tone of his character. Zoe Kazan is just so cute...i
mean how could you not like her. Big blue eyes, i had already liked her
in the better and more original Ruby Sparks and she once again charms
the screen.What If is undeniably a pleasant movie going experience but
unfortunately it does fall short from being much more than that. The
two lead performances and a screenplay that ha some funny gags in it,
elevate a material that's overall not that great and was made with an
approach that wasn't really that inventive. Still i had a good time and
i would feel a bit guilty giving a negative score to a film that didn't
impress but didn't leave a bad taste in my mouth either.Rating:C+
