4
Adventure is out there if your name is Ben Stiller

The Secret Life of Walter Mitty; one of many movies released over this
holiday season is about a timid photographer who works for Life
magazine and sets off on the journey of his lifetime to find a missing
print and photographer Sean O'Connell (Sean Penn). The movie's motive
(at least it seems) for audiences of today is to experience new things
and find what you're looking for in your life. If you're as shy as
Walter, find that experience or excitement and fill that hole, yadda
yadda yadda. That message is all fine and dandy, but to what cost? The
Secret Life of Walter Mitty becomes so extreme that it takes away from
it's original motive; and it suffers. There is just too much riff raff
going on in this movie for me to enjoy it.Ben Stiller portrays Ben Stiller, excuse me I mean, Walter Mitty, a shy
Ben Stiller *SORRY* ahem, photographer who can't seem to break out of
his awkward shell and ask his cute co-worker Cheryl (Kristen Wigg) out
on a date. He has a hard enough time communicating with her, but he
also has serious day dreaming issues, slipping to and from fantasies
featuring exotic mountain climber guy and saving kittens from burning
buildings. These fantasies are exciting. They're a great thing to build
the plot around, however what seemed to be a bright idea gets shrugged
off by the second act. Once Walter abruptly flees to Europe, these
fantasies have vanished. What seemed like an everyday problem for Mitty
is now magically replaced by shark wrestling skills; climbing mountains
and evading volcanic eruptions. Stiller also has one backpack but a
bottomless wardrobe(?). The events get so ridiculous, at times you
wonder if they are Walter's fantasies or not; which they aren't, and
another seemingly clever plot device falls flat. To top it all off, I
didn't give two shits about Ben Stiller or his character, Walter
Stiller, who was wooden as all hell in his performance. Kristen Wigg's
part wasn't large enough for me to care if Mitty ended up with her or
not, and the blatant product placement for eHarmony at the end
completely sealed the deal for me. Walter Mitty goes on a remarkable,
life changing journey and supposedly does some amazing things; yet he's
barely a changed man by the the end of the film.Walter Mitty wasn't an awful movie; but I could tell it was Ben
Stiller's artistic moment and nothing else. It didn't sell for me.
There is some beautiful cinematography with shots of Iceland and
Europe; but that isn't enough for me to call your picture any good, Mr.
Stiller.From http://bbman94.wix.com/brandonsmoviecorner
