9
Dawn of the Planet of the Apes transcends the Hollywood blockbuster. Rich, beautiful and haunting filmmaking.

Sequels can be a worry when coming from big studios. Greedy cash-ins
are all too familiar, where rather than stepping further into the world
established by the predecessor and exploring unlimited opportunities in
character and themes, they just add more antagonists, more action and
more noise. It can also be worrying when the original director who
helped see a great film through till the end is replaced in the next
film. Rise of the Planet of the Apes was a refreshing and involving
take on an old franchise and director Rupert Wyatt set up such promise
for its sequel. Matt Reeves takes over the reins here on Dawn...and
thankfully has taking the film to a rare, brilliant new level.The film is set ten years after the first film. The ALZ-113 virus has
continued to evolve Apes. Led by Caesar, they have made their home in
the woods and bred. On the other side of the island (and the world),
humans are scarce. The virus has had the opposite effect and spread,
killing billions. Those thousands we do see remaining are struggling to
survive. When an unfortunate situation occurs between the two sides,
war is imminent. But not all humans and Apes agree with the potentially
devastating results.Whereas Rise of the Planet of the Apes was a stripped back study of the
science at the core of the story, whilst investing us in the human
drama, Dawn of the Planet of the Apes throws us head first into a very
different world. The scope is immense and multi-layered. At one view,
it's a dead, frightening post-apocalyptic world. At another, it's
brisk, dynamic and visually arresting. Matt Reeves has such a masterful
handle on every string and creates brooding scope, claustrophobic
tension and powerful action sequences; all amongst a basic, but
incredibly rich morality play which is raw and powerfully spoken. What
is most fantastic about the character approach is nothing is clear cut.
Good vs. Bad meet in the middle and spirals out to both sides. I could
sit here and blabber about the complete awe I had of the major step up
in visual effects of the Apes, but that's not what caught my attention.
Right from the opening scene of an extreme close-up of Caesars eyes, I
felt the characters. The performances from all stunt men and actors
bringing life to these apes transcend the visual brilliance. It is
collective. It is immersive. It is terrifying. Andy Serkis delivers one
of his most satisfying performances to date. His dedication and his
understanding of every thread and fiber of Caesars being are in every
frame of this film. And I cannot forget to mention the all-out,
aggressive performance from Toby Kebbell as Koba. He breaks the barrier
of something quite terrifying and strong.Dawn of the Planet of the Apes transcends the Hollywood blockbuster.
Not only does it deliver that rare sequel explores its world and
characters further, but it's also richly told, beautifully and
hauntingly portrayed and truly exciting and terrifying in equal
measures. Quite possibly one of the best films of 2014.
