6
Great build-up, but...

Remember 'Jaws'? Remember the way you only got to see little glimpses 

of the shark or just the remains of his victims for nearly half the 

movie? Instead, you got to meet half the town first and all the main 

characters while fear and paranoia slowly spread across the whole 

community, and when the great white guy finally did make his entrance – 

boy, what an impact he had. Now, that was 40 years ago – but would it 

be possible to make that kind of movie today? To show restraint despite 

a budget of 160+ million dollars and all the latest state of the art 

CGI-effects the blockbuster factory has to offer?



As it turns out, it's not quite possible; at least not as far as this 

latest version of 'Godzilla' is concerned - but that's probably not for 

lack of trying on director Gareth Edwards' part. The young director 

('Monsters') has stated many times that 'Jaws' was a huge inspiration 

for him on this movie, and it is hardly a coincidence that the (human) 

hero in 'Godzilla' shares the same name with the hero in Spielberg's 

masterpiece (they're both called Brody). Edwards made it very clear 

that he wanted to take an "old school" approach – and as far as the 

beautiful, haunting build-up of the first half of the movie is 

concerned, he actually succeeds. The atmosphere of mystery and dread is 

tangible; the human element is there, the acting and the dialogues are 

solid, and the production design is breathtaking (especially the 

apocalyptic images of an evacuated city in Japan which was left to 

decay for 15 years, overgrown with plants and with packs of wild dogs 

running in the streets).



The "muto" design - when we do get a first glimpse at a creature – is 

otherworldly and frightening (as good monsters should be), but as the 

movie progresses into the second half and the creature-action 

increases, the quality of the pacing, the dialogues and the acting 

inexplicably decreases. The movie sadly starts to feel flat, and 

although there is one great creature scene after another, and although 

those scenes get more and more intense as the storyline steers towards 

the inevitable showdown, it's hard to stay invested in the human side 

of the story. After the first act (when there was actually still some 

real acting required from the actors), there are virtually no 

interesting moments anymore when the human protagonists interact, let 

alone lingering scenes where the characters get to talk long enough to 

one another to even try to build such a thing as chemistry. So when the 

finale does arrive (which looks absolutely beautiful, by the way), you 

admire its epic scale, but since there is nobody to care about, it's 

hard to feel thrilled. Sure, you kind of root for Godzilla, but since 

you only just met the guy, you don't feel too much attached.



Ultimately – despite a great build-up and a fantastic looking finale – 

'Godzilla' is a valid effort but only rarely a thrilling one. Unlike in 

'Jaws', there are no interesting human characters here who could help 

create the kind of tension-heavy atmosphere or sense of impending doom 

the way Chief Brody, Hooper and Quint could 40 years ago. Trying to 

show restraint alone is not enough to create a sense of wonder the way 

seventies cinema did – you also need the kind of character-driven 

scenes where someone says: "We're gonna need a bigger boat!"


