6
Grieving and Mourning in Port Sunshine

Never done a film review before, but felt compelled to put something
down.. As 44 year old that grew up in Glasgow and left in early my
early 20s I always had an infinity with Welsh's novels. Through the
nightmares of marabou stork, the spiraling world of Detective Bruce
Robertson and the exploits of 'Juice' Terry. But it was with
Trainspotting that it all started. And even with the early stage shows
I was hooked on the dark world of welsh's grim characters. By the time
I heard that the film was underway I had already moved to London and
was eagerly anticipating 'the arrival' from the posters. I came out of
that first showing a bit bewildered. That's not an image of 'General
Franco'. Mikes Foresters a wimp (sorry Irvine!) Renton from the stage
is now the 'catboy' and where is second prize and the others? But as a
film, the characters, the pace the and the lines.....'He's always been
lacking in moral fiber..." But' he knows a lot aboot Sean Connery'
'That's hardly a substitute!!' And the music score, from IPs intro lust
for life through to pulps mile-end. It just worked, it so worked. It
was not the book, couldn't be. It was something and it was genius. fast
forward 10 years later I'm waiting for 3 hours in the rain outside a
bookshop to get a signed copy of 'Porno'. And I loved it. So you can
imagine the Anticipation I had when Boyle announced the return of
Granton Star express and the first of the trailers started to appear.
for 2016 I forget Bourne, Rogue in the sequel world one nothing else
mattered and Stupidly I had built things up in my head to a level that
that was never going to to be matched. I was actually starting to dread
it following the 'premier' comments that it does not disappoint. But as
I sat there and watched things unfold from early on it felt labored and
disconnected. I just so want this to work. I'm trying trying to force
myself to love it, we trundle into the 1690 episode and what's Scotsman
doesn't love a good sectarian joke & with sick-boy on the ivories. But
it starts going downhill again an by the time we reach Marks updated
choose life monologue it's there because it's expected. Nothing
spontaneous and it's like the words are even dubbed. Where's this
going? Spuds now looking more like the author of the skag boys and
Franco has now started to monologue
#nocuntleavesheretillwefindwhatcuntdidit. I'm losing this next minute
we're going to see Mark 'hypnotising chickens.' Amidst the final scenes
we get a glimpse of a school playground and there's young kids that we
start to recognise as once friends and I'm getting a bit choked up when
the curly haired blonde kid appears in a freeze frame. it maybe tommy
it may not. But it starting to feel like a funeral and I just want to
leave the cinema now. Is it the film, the stark reality of my own life
in a mirror through addiction, bad choices and lost youth? Should it
never have been revisited in the first place, are some things so good
you should never ever go back? 2 hours after leaving the cinema I'm now
sat watching there them running out of WHSmiths down princess's as
opposed to choosing mind numbing spirit crushing game shows... just
made it worse. Days later and I'm still haunted by the film. What's up
with me? I'm not reading this from other fans? Honestly I'm not having
a go at the film, it's probably my own stupid expectations.
