1
The Force Awakens, The Death of story driven Star Wars?

I hate to be the one to point this out, but in the spirit of truth the
movie is complete garbage. Once you get past the real sets and
practical effects, the only thing done right, this movie is simply
terrible. It has no depth at all. In the prequels with bad acting,
terrible special effects and lack of real sets sucked yes, but at least
they had a good story.1. The entire story is basically the original 3 films mashed together
into 130 minutes of rehashed fan appeasement, no original story other
then killing of Han Solo, which was rehashed from the Luke/Vader empire
fight scene but far less spectacular.2. There is absolutely no back story to the Republic or the First Order
and what's been happening over the last 30 years.3. The new bad guy is a whiny immature kid with daddy problems that
throws literal temper tantrums whenever he does not get his way, even
worse than the fan hated prequels.4. The new bad guy wears a mask for no reason other than to apparently
look and sound cool? I mean he takes it off and shows his face several
times in the movie so it's obviously not to hide his identity. If it's
for simple armor then show him only wearing it in combat and protecting
him from a blaster shot to the face or something.5. The new bad guy goes bad for seemingly no reason at all? He has his
mom and dad in his life and they love him very much, yet he wants to
follow in the foot steps of his evil grandfather who died before he was
even born? Darth Vader went good in the end and saved Luke by killing
the emperor and becoming a force ghost like Obi One, so why doesn't he
just appear to his force sensitive grandson and explain the truth of
what happened to him and explain to him he is being misguided by a
lie!?6. Why was Gwendoline Christie even in the film? She literally had 2
scenes more then the trailer showed and served no purpose, must be
because she's a bad guy woman and that's different and cool right?7. The 3.0 Death Star only bigger, but with the exact same weakness as
the first 2 and destroyed the exact same way, really!!??8. As this director showed in Star Trek, he does not care at all about
destroying the major cornerstones of a franchise story such as having
Romulus destroyed in the very beginning of his rehashed Star Trek
series and killing off nearly the entire population of a fan favorite
planet/race. The new bigger more powerful 3.0 death star destroys
multiple planets, the entire Republic and its fleet in one shot killing
billions of people!!?? 9. Clear liberal Hollywood feminist propaganda, I don't mind a strong
female lead at all! But did they have to make her a completely
unrealistic super woman!? She learns she has force powers, figures out
how to use said force powers by her self in what could have only been a
couple days at most and beats the hell out of the multi year trained
bad guy apprentice!!!10. A waste disposal storm trooper uses a light saber no training
necessary?11. A one day old Jedi with no training can use a light saber the first
day she holds it as good as a multi year trained apprentice when Luke
had to train for at least months with Yoda and still had his ass kicked
by Vader, must be because she's a super woman right?12. Ray knows more about the technical aspects of the Millennium falcon
and can fly it better then Hans Solo can even when she has never flown
a star ship before, just like a 9 year old did in the prequels flying a
fighter and destroying the droid control ship right? Oh ya she's super
woman, I forgot.
