9
Not what you expected and that's a good thing

As greginess7878-already noted, there are a lot of brief generic
disparaging reviews for this film, and I strongly suspect it is anti
LGBT trolls.I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, the only criticism I would make is the
catchpenny title change from the original Comic and with the trailer
and marketing. This was hyped up to be a distaff Bond/Bourne with a
streak of Terminatrix. That's not what it was and an honest ad campaign
would have served it better.As it is, it owes more to LaCarre than Fleming. I found it more
realistic than most of its genre, a real spy movie set in the turmoil
of the Berlin wall about to fall and the impact that would have on the
new world order. Parts of it captured the grimness and the cold war
lack of trust between allies and dark deals of real politik with
adversaries.I think the trouble with some of the reviewers is they are a generation
that doesn't have the frame of reference to comprehend this film. They
didn't experience the cold war, the threat of nuclear war or how much
the European allies thought Reagan was an out of his depth populist who
was going to get us all killed. How times have changed, eh? I am not a
fan of Theron, I've not understood how she got credibility as an action
star since Aeon Flux. But she does actually a do a pretty good job of
this. The acting is good, I would have criticized her too generic
English accent if it hadn't been for the reveal. Her story makes sense,
in the context of the cold war coming to an end when a lot of people
liked it just the way it was. The fight scenes are realistic, she is
not superhuman, she can only take so much of a beating before being
exhausted, she relies on brief impactful viciousness and improvisation.
But she doesn't just shake it off by the next scene like they do in so
many action films where the baddie goes down with one punch, one stab
or one shot. She's convincing as a spy the way that Bond isn't, she
changes her look, she sexes it up to manipulate, she acts and manages
her emotions. It's not clear initially if she play the lesbian
seductress because that the way she is or as another spy tool to get
information. I take it as presented that she does grow to care in a way
she knows she shouldn't.It has the right look for the time, the right music and nothing is as
it seems, which is also right for the time.This film has more layers than it appears, they should have kept the
original title, it's a great spy film in the tradition of Harry Palmer
and Smiley. Personally, I'd love to see a sequel.
