6
If there's one thing horror movies have taught us, it's that ghostly old dears and kids are a recipe for new underwear.

30 years and several retools on from Susan Hill's now seminal pocket
novel comes the big screen adaptation of The Woman in Black. Swapping
the lingering, life-spanning impact of Hill's Dickensian book of the
dead for a hollow yet effective house-of-horrors yarn that'll have you
stirring in your seat- and out of it.The film's set-up is more or less identical to the book but with a few
baffling tweaks; Arthur Kipps (Daniel Radcliffe) is a solicitor and
widowed father of one who's summoned to a remote town and manor on an
eerie northern marshland where he's to settle the estate and will of a
recently deceased old hag. Somethings wrong with the place, though. An
ominous figure stalks and taunts and haunts the townspeople. A child
falls whenever it is seen; a woman in black.If there's one thing horror movies have taught us, it's that ghostly
old dears and kids are a recipe for new underwear. And what do you
know, The Woman in Black has them both in droves. All of which reside
in a haunted, Victorian mansion in the middle of nowhere. The film
charts Kipps' probe into the strange happenings from inside the damned
estate in this simplistic yet effectual horror gem that's as playful
and frightening as it is enjoyable.As a stand-alone picture, director James (Eden Lake) Watkins' Woman in
Black is as sound a horror of this ilk and purpose come; the
haunted-house caper has been done to death then done again over the
course of cinema's history. The Woman in Black is the best of its kind
for quite some time. When measured against the book, though, it comes
up short. Despite remaining faithful to its source through large parts
and absolutely nailing the location, Jane Goldman's screenplay omits
certain key scenes as well as the haunting bookends that made Hill's
novel one the finest ghost stories of all time. Fans of the book will
find it hard to fathom why these decisions were made. Maybe Goldman and
Watkins wanted to stamp their own, uplifting mark on the tale. Shades
of Kubrick's Shining? Not quite. I won't reveal what transpires in
Hill's novel, but if the film had followed suite, it would've had
greater substance and longevity.Grafting Harry Potter onto its set-up ensured Watkins' film spun a
profit before it hit a single screen. In an undemanding role that
require Radcliffe tread cautiously and look scared, the boyish Brit
does what's expected of him but fails to impress; to say he's
believable as a father would be stupid. He isn't. If Radcliffe is
looking to break free from his Potter persona, it's going to take a lot
more than a 12A, British horror film to do the trick. Albeit a damn
good one; the Evil Dead 2 a la Dickens without the gore, gut laughs and
satire. Jumpy, jittery and fun. Yes, fun. The Woman in Black is by no
means a black comedy but its clichéd set-up and slow-boiling pots of
suspense are so well conceived and cooked you'll be scared silly and
amused at the same time. Nervous laughter? You bet. Watkins' delays the
unveiling of the shadow shrouded woman to the bitter-end but when we
finally see the bitch, its no laughing matter.Think The Shining without the depth. Think Paranormal Activity without
the realism; a minimaliststic, nail-biting scare-fest primed for the
big screen that joins the likes of The Others and The Village as well
crafted mainstream horrors fit for young and old. See it.
