10
Never a dull moment, a beautiful and captivating film

Blue is the Warmest Colour has become one of the most controversial
films of the past year on the basis of its frank depiction of lesbian
sexuality alone, but the film is so much more than that. The sex is
merely a device used to accelerate the plot and enrich the realism of
the film. The film presents a very beautiful and ultimately devastating
love story that far transcends the hyped bedroom proclivities of the
two main characters.Its central character is Adele, played by Adele Exarchopoulos in a
fearless, breathtaking performance. Ever word she utters, ever
expression on her face, it all felt so sincere. She is the heart and
soul of this film. We get to know her insecurities about her
appearance, her experimentation, confusion and ultimate
realisations/awakenings with sexuality and her development from girl to
woman. Her relationships, with the break ups and make ups, her plans
for her life all become the focus of the 187 minute run time.
Honourable mention goes to Lea Seydoux, who provides an enchanting
performance as the free spirited, artistic Emma. She provides an
interesting contrast to the indecisive and sometimes confused Adele in
that she knows exactly what she wants in life - what pleases her and
what doesn't.The film is quite heavy on symbolism with the colour blue. It is very
prevalent in the film, appearing most obviously in Emma's hair, in the
club Adele visits, in the fare she uses at the rally, in the classroom
she teaches, in the dress Adele wears during her last encounter with
Emma. The cinematography itself is beautiful and rich, full of earth
tones and exquisite colour, giving the film a dreamy haze. The rather long run time may detract you, but don't let it. There is
never a dull moment and the movie progresses like a breeze, every
single scene is crucial and well constructed. Do not miss this, it
could arguably one of the best film's of 2013 and certainly one of the
most honest depictions of a relationship between two people in cinema
in recent memory.
