6
If you enjoy seeing Tom Cruise get the living snot beat out of himthen this is the movie for you!

The first of Universal Pictures' new 'Dark Universe' movies, The Mummy,
doesn't exactly bode well for what's to come...assuming further movies
even happen after this. Hoping to create an interconnecting universe of
classic monsters doesn't work if you haven't thought things through
properly, and as others have speculated, this feels like it's not been
properly planned out at all. The previous iteration of The Mummy, the
1999 version starring Brendan Fraser and Rachel Weisz, might not have
been a 'masterpiece', but it was a good old-fashioned action/adventure
movie that was at least FUN and *entertaining*. This one? Not so much.Things get off to a rocky start with a rather dull/boring opening
featuring a crusader buried with a red jewel which will become
important later. We're then treated to what feels like a rushed
backstory to the movie's title character, the mummy herself, Ahmanet
(Sofia Boutella, who deserves so much better than this to show her
talents and was the only reason I even saw this movie). The backstory
isn't anything new/exciting. She did something bad, tried to raise some
ancient evil, but the ritual was interrupted and she got mummified for
her trouble (in a surprisingly less gruesome flashback than Imhotep's
from the '99 movie). We're then introduced to one of the least heroic 'heroes' ever, Tom
Cruise's Nick Morton, and his offsider, Jake Johnson's Vail, in a
typical shoot-'em-up/explosions aplenty action scene that somehow
manages to not be exciting/interesting at all. They're 'liberators of
precious antiquities' (ie. looters/thieves) and Nick is kind of a jerk.
Annabelle Wallis' Jenny Halsey agrees, and her entrance involves her
delivering a well-deserved slap to Nick's face (he slept with her so he
could steal from her). They're soon thrown together by Courtney B.
Vance's man-in-charge, Colonel Greenway, and descending into a big hole
where...you guessed it, they unwittingly awaken Ahmanet. As they're transporting said corpse via airplane, things start getting
hairy when Vail (looking the worse for wear after earlier being bitten
by a creepy-crawly) turns all murder-y and Nick's forced to put him
down. Then birds start hitting the plane and it plummets. In a
seemingly heroic move, Nick gives the last parachute to Jenny and saves
her life (it'll later be revealed this wasn't in fact entirely the
case) and he next wakes up in a morgue. Before you can say "An American
Werewolf in London", Nick's seeing Vail looking all corpsified and
gross as he delivers snark/ominous messages to Nick who is also
experiencing visions of Ahmanet. Seems he's been 'chosen' by her for a
second attempt at raising that ancient evil with the ritual she was so
rudely interrupted during the middle of previously. It involves a
dagger and that red jewel.Cruise and Johnson attempt to convey camaraderie between their
characters, but their 'banter' falls flat. There's not much humour in
this movie, and what little it has rarely works. The biggest laugh in
my theatre came from Jenny's reaction to seeing Ahmanet straddling Nick
at one point. I think calling her character 'useless' is a bit unfair.
She saves Nick at least once or twice (which is kind of her,
considering he was going to ditch her/leave her to fend for herself
against the mummy's minions at one point) and is certainly less of a
jerk than him. The romance that Cruise and Wallis try to make work
between their characters doesn't really succeed much (there's a line
uttered by Nick to Jenny towards the end of the movie which Wonder
Woman did SO much better). Meanwhile, as mentioned elsewhere, you'd think that a movie title 'The
Mummy' would, you know, have more of the actual MUMMY in it. Alas, poor
Sofia Boutella is underutilized. She does what she can with the
material she's given (probably her best/most effective scene was the
one she shared with Jenny after having been captured/imprisoned). I was
almost on Ahmanet's side rather than Nick's. Sadly, Ahmanet's powers
aren't as interesting as Imhotep's were (except for the neat trick with
the irises/pupils in her eyes splitting in two). Though at one point
she does pull the same face-appearing-in-sandstorm stunt as he did. At
least she gets to toss Nick around like he's a ragdoll...so that's
something. Here's hoping she's better utilized when/if she appears in a
future installment.Russell Crowe feels like he's acting in a different movie as Dr. Henry
Jekyll. At least he looks like he's trying to have some 'fun' with the
role, but even when we're introduced to Mr. Hyde (who isn't really much
different to Jekyll, other than having a different accent/looking all
veiny), it's not enough to save this film. There's cameo appearances by
some of the 'classic' monsters (in the form of pieces of them in jars),
but the movie as a whole lacks cohesion. The ending's especially
WTF-worthy, as the impact of certain character's deaths is completely
undone (not that they had much to begin with), how Nick 'saves the day'
is rather anticlimactic, and what happens to/becomes of him is somewhat
vague.As much as I wanted to like this film, it's just hard to find anything
particularly memorable about it. The action scenes aren't anything
special (the only half-decent one is the plane crash sequence), the
characters' dynamics aren't that interesting, there's no snappy
dialogue, not much depth and nothing really that makes you go "Wow!"
(unless your "Wow!" is immediately followed by "That was BAD!" in
reference to the movie). I don't mean to sound so harsh, but it feels
like all this movie achieved was setting up what's yet to come, and
even then it doesn't appear as if they have a clear idea of what
exactly is going to happen. If the 'Dark Universe' is to become a
thing, they're going to have to try harder than this subpar first
outing. Do yourself a favour and see Wonder Woman instead (and if
you've seen it already...then see it again).
