2
The Second "comedy" this year without any comedy

Wow was this a disappointment. This movie reminds me of the extremely
disappointing "Hail Ceasar", a great Cast, advertised as a comedy but
utterly devoid of anything remotely funny. It is sort of like a horse
race without any horses, a bar that does not serve alcohol, a
basketball game where there is no basketball. Just some people standing
around talking. The first scene telegraphs how this film is going.
There is a meeting between Isla Fisher, Zach Galifanakis and their
neighbors, Matt Walsh and Maribeth Monroe. Monroe talks about a number
of euphemisms for making love. You could tell it was supposed to be
funny and absolutely was not. At all. A portent of things to come.
Fisher and Galifanakis play a boring couple who live in the suburbs.
They are very boring. This is a change of character for Galifanakis,
who usually plays a wild man, think "The Hangover" movies. Here is
broadens his horizons; He plays very boring. Not a good move. The
boring suburban couple only excitement is the new neighbors moving in
next store. They are handsome and sexy, but not funny either. John Hamm
and Gail Gadot try to recreate Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolee in "Mr. and
Mrs Smith" only without the chemistry or wit. The plot is extremely
predictable. Fisher is suspicious of her new neighbors. Galifanakis
works at a top secret defense contractor, but he is clueless as to the
real motives of Hamm. Of course Hamm and Gadot are spies, I mean they
make James Bond look like a butcher. The worst scene is the conclusion.
Walsh is supposed to meet with a crime lord known as "The Scorpion"
played by Patton Oswalt. Spoiler: the big conclusion makes no sense.
The Scorpion pays a suitcase full of cash for some microchips. But he
finds out he is dealing with Galifanakis instead of Walsh, he decides
to shoot him and Fisher. Some questions arise. Why? The Scorpion has
what he wants, who cares who he was dealing with? It would make more
sense if he wanted the cash as well as the microchips. And why was
Fisher there? She wasn't needed and she was put in danger for no
purpose. And then Hamm and Gadot are brought into the standoff with no
explanation. The Scorpion and his goons have all these machine guns and
are ready to kill all four of them. Fisher thrawts that by grabbing a
butter knife, which she sneaks to Gadot. Oh that changes everything,
Gadot has a butter knife which trumps 8 guys with machine guns.
Seriously.The 4 stars then get away from the goons by jumping out the window into
a swimming pool. Everyone know that goons with machine guns are
powerless to shoot people who are in a swimming pool. Galifanakis is
afraid to jump, until the Scorpion shoots him twice in the chest. Then
he decides to jump into the pool. Again, everyone knows that pool water
cures bullet wounds in through the heart.The script is stupid, predictable and unfunny. If you gave a 1000
chimpanzees 1000 typewriters, they would produce 1000 screenplays
better than this one. Why 2 stars? The reason I went to see it in the
first place. I like all 4 stars. But shouldn't they have been able to
tell that the script was not funny or interesting when they read it?
How can they make such crap?
