3
Refn is possessed by a demon that feasts on all that is trite and shiny

As a viewer who has enjoyed a handful of Nicolas Winding Refn's works
like Drive, Bronson, Valhalla Rising, and even Only God Forgives –
which I defended wholeheartedly in a 2013 Amazon review – it pains me a
little to kick off my review with the following statement: It is
difficult to decide what I dislike most about Nicolas Winding Refn's
The Neon Demon. Critics giving Demon positive reviews and arguing that
its monomaniacal focus on style is intentionally on par with the film's
message are missing the reality that NWR's creative juices are simply
dried up at the moment.So what is the least admirable trait of Refn's latest? Is it the
paucity original thought? The onslaught of the routinely neon- drenched
Kubrickian imagery? The fact that a good sixth of the movie feels like
the director got away with making fetish porn with an Amazon Studios
(and about a half dozen other production companies) budget? I'm not
even going to start in on the film's literal blood baths, but I think
that the lack of originality is probably the worst part.Audiences have already seen everything that The Neon Demon has to
offer. Cinematically speaking, there is nothing more than the usual
slew of rehashed Kubrick frames (including a groan-worthy Shining shout
out within the first few minutes). Aside from a memorable strobe- light
inspired scene of a performance at a model- populated L.A. party, Refn
adds nothing new to his aesthetic arsenal that he has not already
splashed on the screen with his previous four films.From a narrative standpoint, one should not expect a fully-formed,
fleshed out story or characters. These are not Refn's preoccupations
when making a movie, and there's nothing inherently wrong with that.
That is, if the film's style and themes can compensate. Stylistically
(see paragraph above), it does not hold any substantial weight.
Unfortunately, there is even more of a thematic drought.At one point in the film, the increasingly narcissistic protagonist
Jesse (Elle Fanning) says that other girls will cut, carve, inject, and
do anything else to their own bodies just so that they can look like a
second- rate version of her. The girl from the small town who seemed so
nice starts becoming a bit conceited by her time in the fashion
industry. Can you believe it? Imagine that! Wow, what is the director
trying to say about fashion? Hollywood? The male gaze? SOCIETY?If there is one thing that 2106 films like The Neon Demon and Zoolander
2 should be teaching would-be blockbuster directors and art-house
auteurs alike, it is that the fashion industry has become one of the
stalest targets for satire in any artistic medium or genre. It's not
that superficiality doesn't deserve it, but at this point if a writer
or a director has nothing original to say about it, then they should
not be saying anything all.To be fair, the trite and shiny cloud of unoriginality that is The Neon
Demon does have its silver linings. I have never felt so badly for a
film score than I do for Cliff Martinez's excellent work on this
soundtrack. While the message of the movie will blend in with the
mental smoothie of other Hollywood/superficiality parable flicks, I
will not easily be able to excise Martinez's thumping synths from my
ears. I will also never forget the intensity of Abbey Lee's stares.There are also less silvery scenes involving Jena Malone taking the
tired psycho lesbian trope to whole new level and an absurdly Nicolas
Cage-esque Keanu Reeves as an acrimonious motel manager that I will not
forget for other reasons (primarily the random shock-less "shock value"
senselessness of them). I wish I could recommend The Neon Demon as a
startlingly original work from a gifted auteur, but it feels like Refn
simply isn't challenging himself or the audience in any meaningful way.
Here's hoping that this kind of trite and shiny would-be shock fest
will not be the only thing that Refn has to offer cinema in the future.
