8
Good entertainment with something to say about the sons of god

If this had been headlined by anyone other than Dwayne Johnson then I'm
not sure I'd have turned up at the cinema. Even then it was a bit touch
and go. What could this sword and sandals flick offer that wasn't
already covered by many others the last fifteen years? It turns out
Hercules is pretty unique in its attempt to say something important
about the world we live in, layered beneath the many coloured
imagination of director Brett Ratner and the needs of a PG12 rating.Hercules is one of the great legends of ancient Greece, the half human
son of Zeus. The slayer of mighty beasts and a single man able to face
down whole armies. Or so the legend says.It has been three years since Hercules was banished from Athens for the
alleged murder of his wife and children. He now roams the lands around
the Aegean sea, a mercenary for hire, along with his small band of
loyal soldiers. When a beautiful princess asks Hercules to save her
father's once proud kingdom from marauding centaurs, the offer of
payment in gold to Hercules weight is too good to refuse. As Hercules
trains the rag tag army of this beleaguered nation and leads them to
battle, Hercules and his men realise not all is it what it seems. When
Hercules's past turns around and confronts him face on he has to also
face the reality of his own legend.Despite an often flat first half carried on the very broad shoulders of
our man Dwayne, we realise at the mid-point a quite interesting premise
has been played and the second half is quite something. Dwayne is
always charismatic if not possessed of the ease Rufus Sewell and Ian
McShane have in front of camera, both of which almost steal the show.
Hercules small band of warriors work well together although Ian McShane
in particular has all the best lines and moments, memorably towards the
end.Ultimately this is very watchable, a good way to spend a few hours on a
Friday night. It has a very worthwhile message, is underpinned by great
actors and is clever, at least in the second half. But there is
something missing. This is a PG12, which means for all the violence, of
which there is a lot, there is nothing to ground it as real violence.
Hercules has heart but it's a long way short of Conan (1982) and a
league apart from Gladiator (2000). By giving it such an unrealistic
context, violence without reality, to achieve a younger audience it
detracts from the core message, so painstakingly woven through the
story.Hercules is good entertainment with something important to say if
you're willing to overlook a few shortcomings, mostly around catering
for a younger audience.
