6
Spoof or serious gangster drama?

¨I always knew I'd die in Burbank¨Gangster Squad walks a really thin line between being a terrible film
and an entertaining one. First of all it has a really great and
talented cast; it also has a good production design and is very
stylized reminding us of some epic gangster films. On the other hand
the film only looks gangster-like on the surface; it is not really a
serious neo- noir gangster film but more of a light comedic gangster
movie. This is director Ruben Fleisher's follow up to his hit comedy
Zombieland, and in a way it does feel like a satire of sorts of
gangster films, but in some strange way it fails to find its own
personality. You never know if you're supposed to take the movie
seriously or not because something is missing in the mix between drama
and comedy. One critic defined the film better than I could by claiming
it is ¨LA Confidential without the script.¨ It has the look and the
tone of a serious gangster film, but the script which was loosely
adapted by Will Beall from Paul Lieberman's book just fails and the
dialogues seem cartoonish at times. The violence is pretty heavy as
there are plenty of glamorized gunfight scenes and a large body count.
Sean Penn plays the villain a little over the top, but it works if you
view the film as this sort of spoof of the gangster genre. And really
in my opinion this approach is what works best because it is
entertaining if taken lightly as a spoof. I feel sorry for those who
went into this film with high expectations because they will mostly be
disappointed, unless they can live with a mindless popcorn action flick
with some good performances. The story takes place in 1949 Los Angeles where Mickey Cohen (Sean
Penn), a mob king from Chicago, has taken over the city and is planning
on controlling all criminal activities there with the help of corrupt
officers and judges. He will eliminate whoever stands in his path. Sgt.
John O'Mara (Josh Brolin) on the other hand is a WWII veteran who is
determined to do what he can to clean up the city. When Chief Parker
(Nick Nolte) hears about O'Mara's heroics he decides to assign him with
a special underground task: to form an elite squad of police officers
that will take down the mob King. Thus O'Mara begins his quest to find
the right officers for his special team with the help of his wife
Connie (Mireille Enos) who is worried about his wellbeing and wants him
to be protected as best as possible. O'Mara chooses Officer Coleman
Harris (Anthony Mackie), Max Kennard (Robert Patrick) and his partner
Navidad Ramirez (Michael Peña), Conway Keeler (Giovanni Ribisi) who's
the brains in the operation, and finally Sgt. Jerry Wooters (Ryan
Gosling) who decides to accept O'Mara's proposal after a member of the
mob kills a kid he knew from the streets. Together these officers begin
to try to intercept and disrupt Cohen's operations working as an
underground hit squad. Wooters also happens to be having an affair with
Cohen's love interest, Grace (Emma Stone), which could or could not be
a good thing. And so the action begins as the squad tries to disrupt
Cohen's reign and clean up the city.As I mentioned before this is an entertaining film which sometimes
borderlines on the bad side considering it does have some pretty bad
writing and underdeveloped characters. But it did work for me as a sort
of spoof and light hearted film with a very stylized look to it. It has
some fun action sequences with some strong performances, especially
from the always reliable Ryan Gosling who continues to reinvent himself
in every movie. I absolutely loved him here once again. Josh Brolin
gives a pretty solid performance when he is not asked to do the voice
over bit (it was a bit annoying at the beginning giving it a sort of
fake Sin City vibe to it). The rest of the cast is pretty good although
not getting enough screen time or story lines to develop their
characters. Sean Penn plays the stereotypical bad guy a little over the
top, but I enjoyed his performance as well (it wouldn't have worked if
you were expecting a serious gangster drama film). In the end Gangster
Squad did work for me and I was entertained with this shoot-em up
gangster film, but I know it isn't for everyone.http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/
