3
Looks Like I'm the Only One Who Didn't Like It

With a current user rating of 8.3 and with ten - yes, 10 - ratings of
100 from the critics, I feel crazy not liking this movie. Critic
Richard Roeper writes that "I can't imagine anyone who loves movies not
loving THIS movie." I wanted to leave the theater and do something else after 45 minutes.
No one else felt this?When flipping through a friend's screen writing book recently, I read
that the most important thing a movie has to do is have a main
character that the audience sympathizes with, a main character that the
audience roots for. Even in a complex case - such as the protagonist of
August Wilson's wonderful play "Fences", whom we both detest and
sympathize with - the audience must be drawn into actually caring about
the main character.This film didn't have a protagonist (that's not a fault - Shakespeare's
"Twelfth Night" doesn't either), but still I could not have cared less
about any character in this film. What was very strange, and a little
unsettling, to me was that I felt this immediately, within the first
five minutes of the film. Another thing you'll learn from screen writing books is that amateur
screenwriters use too much dialogue. This movie is a classic case in
amateurish, dialogue-heavy scenes. Constant, ceaseless dialogue really
bogged down the film for me. This film didn't have a single bone of
subtlety in its entire body. Dialogue, dialogue, dialogue.I saw in one of the trailers that this is a comedy - really!? I
chuckled twice, and one of the occasions was in the film's first 30
seconds. There were several jokes that not a single person in the movie
theater laughed at. So, in summary, I guess I'm the only person in the world who didn't
care for this one. Contrary to Mr. Roeper's assertion at the beginning
of this review, I love movies but I strongly disliked this one. My
favorite movie is Stanley Kubrick's "Barry Lyndon" - so maybe that
explains it.jacobnunnally.blogspot.com
