5
More marshmallow than Martian!

The crew of an American base on Mars are forced to make an emergency
departure leaving one crew-member behind presumed dead. But he is
alive! Can the stranded astronaut find a way of communicating his
plight to those on Earth and survive while he awaits rescue? A fairly standard 'castaway' plot but one which offers many dramatic
possibilities. Unfortunately few of these are realised in this
pedestrian movie which fails to generate any significant dramatic
tension. This is partly because the characterisation is thin but also
because the challenges the stranded astronaut faces seem to be so
easily overcome. Starvation? Grow potatoes. Punctured space-helmet?
Sticky tape. Mars rover vehicle lacking power? Wire up a few solar
cells. Communications equipment destroyed? Motor over to a handy Mars
lander. We never sense that the 'Martian' (Matt Damon) is in a
desperate, mind- and body-sapping struggle against the odds
(conveniently he is a botanist).Damon effectively portrays the 'Martian' as a likable guy but the
problem is how to fill the two hours of the movie that remain after he
is stranded? When a character is alone and unable to communicate it
needs something exceptional to keep us glued to the screen. Maybe
what's going on back home will do it. Not really because the cast of
characters there are verging on cardboard cut-outs. The returning crew?
Likewise. And the script is written on the assumption that the audience
is a little dumb, e.g. A: It will be 500 Sols (Martian days) before we
can rescue him. B: But his food will run out in 300 sols. C: So he'll
die before we get there. Indeed! And so may we. The movie has some good FX and the Martian landscape looks convincing.
But there's nothing exceptional here to compensate for the lack of an
effectively told story.In essence this is an American feel-good fantasy film, celebrating
ideals of technical omnipotence, racial harmony, gender equality and
international collaboration (with those cool Chinese guys and gals). If
only it were so. No wonder the credits rolled to the tune of The O'
Jays singing 'Love Train'. School-kids will probably join in! But, to
quote Sam Goldwyn, 'Include me out!'(Viewed at the Odeon, Warrington, 06 October 2015)
