6
Expected More From A Nicolas Sparks Adaptation

When you walk into a Nicolas Sparks movie, you expect certain things.
The Lucky One follows a storyline similar to most of Nicolas Sparks'
other adapted novels. This is neither a good nor a bad thing. So long
as the movie can stand on its own feet, it deserves recognition. On
that ground, The Lucky One does hold its own. The acting is great and
the story held my interest. In the end, specific problems make this
movie much worse than it should have been.The main fallback of the story is the characters. Stereotypes are
abound. The mayor-to-be is the same as any story that tries to cover a
trapped-in-a-small-town feel. The father is an incredibly flat
character that is in no way believable. Even Zac Efron's character is
too mysterious for his own good. Although Efron pulled off the role
quite well, it was the way the character is presented that is the
problem.The other problem with the film is its climax. I won't give it away,
but I have seen the same climax more than once. It was an unfortunate
low point in a movie that was incredibly well acted. The rest of the
storyline was quite unique and enjoyable. Even the modern setting of
PTSD and soldiers who have served too many tours was a fascinating
setting for the movie. Unfortunately, the amateur screenwriter dropped
the ball.I must point out an unfortunate fact of this movie. It's only 101
minutes. Since it is so short for a complex drama, it drops the ball on
many occasions. In the beginning of the film, Zac Efron's character
walks from Colorado to Missouri. This fact is almost addressed at one
point, but then dropped and never brought back. Things like this happen
throughout the film. These holes could have been filled with 15 to 20
minutes more screen time. Unfortunately, the push to keep films shorter
made The Lucky One significantly worse.If you are a Nicolas Sparks fan, this movie is worth seeing. If you
enjoy romantic dramas, I would recommend renting The Notebook, A Walk
to Remember, or Dear John. If you don't like romantic dramas, there is
no reason for you to see this movie. Nicolas Sparks is one of the few
authors who deliver consistently good plots. Unfortunately, his last
two films have fallen flat. Maybe it's time for him to stop using the
same formula again and again.reillyreviews.wordpress.com
