2
"Sleeping with Other People" is an uninspired mess.

Sometimes you can make a movie title into a funny sentence – if you
word it just right. For example, I could tell you that… I spent good
money to check out Lily Tomlin's "Grandma" (her September 2015 movie),
and I was very disappointed with what I saw. The previous spring, I
decided to go to "Get Hard" (the Will Farrell – Kevin Hart comedy). A
couple months before that, I watched "The Boy Next Door" for about an
hour and a half… and I'd do it again. But I'm fickle. Even after
looking online and finding "The Perfect Guy", I still found myself
looking forward to "Sleeping with Other People". Unfortunately, my
significant other was not amused when I texted that that was what I was
doing when I didn't come home on time one evening. Equally unfortunate
is that this paragraph is about as funny and clever as the movie
"Sleeping with Other People" (R, 1:41) is able to manage in nearly two
hours of screen time.Lainey (Alison Brie) and Jake (Jason Sudeikis) met in college and ended
up losing their virginity to each other. About a dozen years later,
they run into each other after attending a meeting for sex addicts.
They each had people in their lives who suggested the group as a way of
dealing with their respective obsession with sex and proclivity to
cheat. After catching up and discussing their lives over dinner, they
both hint that they're still attracted to each other, so they agree to
just be friends – with a safe word for times when one says or does
something that the other thinks could result in things getting sexual
between them. This way, they can enjoy each other's company while
still… sleeping with other people.This arrangement works pretty well… for a while. Lainey and Jake treat
each other as best friends, but carry on with their own romantic
relationships, and even discuss details with each other. Lainey is
trying to get past a long-term obsession with her college boyfriend –
turned gynecologist (Adam Scott) who is about to get married – to
someone other than her. Jake is pursuing his new boss (Amanda Peet),
but his friend and co-worker (Jason Mantzoukas) and his wife (Andrea
Savage) are convinced that Jake wants to sleep with Lainey. Lainey's
friend, Kara (Natasha Lyonne), is concerned that she's spending too
much time with (or obsessing over) unavailable men. Soon, even Lainey
and Jake have to admit to each other that they're acting like a couple
and they need to figure out what to do about that mutual realization.You've likely seen this story before. It has elements of the very
similar 2011 romantic comedies "No Strings Attached" and "Friends with
Benefits", with a touch of 2013's "Thanks for Sharing" and "Don Jon"
(also very similar), but this film's biggest influence seems to be
1989's "When Harry Met Sally…" Unfortunately, unlike that rom-com
classic, "Sleeping with Other People" lacks likable characters whose
actions make sense. Instead, with this movie we get crude sexual
discussions between two people who are each such a mess that we don't
really care if they get together in the end or not."Sleeping with Other People" was written by one person (Leslye
Headland, who also directs), but feels like it's written by about five
different people – who never conferred with each other. The script
shoots off in several different directions, seemingly randomly. Jason
Sudeikis is usually pretty funny and Alison Brie is pretty… pretty, but
they don't make a very cute couple. These two actors do have some
chemistry between them, but it seems to be theirs alone. Even as these
characters bounce between their various emotional extremes, they
somehow seem to be in sync with each other. That means there are at
least two people who know what's going on in this movie. The romance in
the story only shines through in brief moments and the humor, even
less. I enjoyed catching the frequent movie references tossed around by
Sudeikis' character, but I stopped caring about the plot when it became
clear that I was basically watching the 2015 versions of Harry and
Sally, but not enjoying them nearly as much. "C-"
