8
Innovative horror that gets deep under the skin

Jay (Maika Monroe) is a young, attractive girl coming-of-age who lives
in the suburbs and, like pretty much every other young person, is
finding out who she is through trial, through error, and with her
friends for company. She is seeing a guy, Hugh, who acts a little odd
sometimes but otherwise seems nice and trustworthy so one night she
consents to his advances and they share an awkward but intimate moment
in the back of his car. However, her post-coital bliss is cut short
when Hugh inexplicably chloroforms her. She wakes up tied to a
wheelchair in a derelict building where Hugh is rambling an apology
about how he is doing this to her to show her that it's real, that it
sometimes takes the form of someone you love to mess with you, and that
she has to sleep with someone to pass on the curse. She is convinced he
is maduntil she sees "it".The rest of the film sees "it" stalking Jay. Fortunately, she is able
to demonstrate the reality of "it" to her friends who band together
around her, without the help from any adult authority, as they try to
understand the nature of this thing and how they can help her friend
given her reluctance to merely pass it along by sleeping with another
poor unsuspecting horny teen.Honestly, the culmination of the first act of the film, in the derelict
building, came as a complete surprise: the scene showed me a fresh
vision of horror which was genuinely scary and discomforting despite my
jaded tastes. The slowness of the preceding scenes matured into a
crushing, intense uncertainty when I realised that it wasn't what I
expected from a horror and felt, for the first time in a long while, a
sense of not knowing what I was watching.The rest of the movie doesn't quite live up to this chilling reveal. To
be frank, I can't think of how it could. Rather, the themes and
references that led to the reveal are unpacked to flesh out the film's
universe. We see multiple scenes of urban decay and adult authority
figures are conspicuous by their absence. In addition, the refreshingly
natural colour palette (not that grungy green which seems to
characterise most horror movies these days) and a creepy score create a
palpable sense of alienation and loneliness which mirrors the
characters' confusion as they attempt to battle this malevolent force
in the middle of the standard sexual and identity confusions of youth.What's more, as the film progresses we realise that despite being set
in the present the cars, TVs, and clothes seem to be imported in from
the 80s. At first incongruous, as the film progresses I saw that these
choices could be seen as an homage to the slasher movies of the late
70s/early 80s, especially John Carpenter's 'Halloween', with their
subtexts of the dangers of unsupervised teenagers having sex which is
clearly much of what 'It Follows' is concerned with. The result is a
film which appears bold and fresh, but under closer examination reveals
a fertile heritage of horror which it gains much from drawing upon and
referring to throughout the runtime. However, all this is so artfully
executed and to such a great effect that a familiarity with this
lineage is not required and, moreover, the film still has much to offer
those that are.As it seems to be the case these days, horror movies without the
tiresome jump-scares or which don't regurgitate haunted houses, creepy
kids, or possessed girls get a lot of abuse from certain sections of
the horror audience. If you like those tropes, avoid 'It Follows'. If
you like fresh, daring, and thoughtful horror which lingers long after
the film ends, watch it. Now!
