8
A thrilling spectacle that ties together the Bond of old with the new.

Whether you like Daniel Craig as Bond or not, you can't deny he has
been an integral part of the series' highest points. Casino Royale is
one of the greatest action thrillers ever, let alone Bond movie, and
Skyfall is right up there with Goldeneye as a quintessential Bond
adventure. Following the magnificent Skyfall, Spectre had some huge
shoes to fill, and for the most part, it delivers exactly what you'd
expect. An attention-grabbing, tense opening fight scene, a lovely
title sequence (whether the song is good is debatable), and an
elaborate sinister plot surrounding James Bond that puts him up against
his inner demons more than ever. Does it surpass Casino Royale or
Skyfall? Definitely not, but as far as reintroducing the villainous
organization SPECTRE into Bond canon after 40+ years, the film does
more than a serviceable job, giving us a stylish action-adventure to
boot.SPECTRE is revealed to have been affiliated with some of Bond's biggest
threats - Mr. White, Le Chiffre, Raoul Silva - all under the control of
one puppeteer, the head of SPECTRE and James' archnemesis, Ernst Stavro
Blofeld. It isn't much of a spoiler, as speculation was rampant ever
since the first trailer (and hell, when the name of the movie was
released). What's important is its execution, and Spectre leaves
breadcrumbs for you to follow all the way through the belly of the
beast. Not only is Bond under SPECTRE's crosshairs, but MI6 itself is
experiencing a merger led by Max Denbeigh (Andrew Scott) who wants to
eliminate the 00 division and focus solely on global intelligence. It's
apparent early on that Blofeld has eyes everywhere, and while he works
primarily in the shadows (Christoph Waltz only having 20 or so minutes
of screen time), he poses a looming threat to Bond because of his sheer
cunning and a past secret that unravels itself when the two finally
meet.Many parts of the film feel like a throwback to classic Bond. The icy
environments, the car chase and gadgetry, the use of a massive
threatening henchman, a train fight that is heavily reminiscent of From
Russia With Love, and of course the modern birthing of Bond's greatest
adversary. The acting all around is fantastic, with Craig continuing to
impress as the suave womanizing secret agent. Thomas Newman turns in
another wonderful musical score. But perhaps the most impressive
feature is Sam Mendes' directing. The shots in this movie are
absolutely gorgeous - the action scenes are incredible to watch and
easy to follow, the landscapes are fresh and vibrant, and even the
simplest of scenes - Bond and Blofeld walking up to each other for the
first time - are quietly introspective yet palpably tense. Tension
lingers throughout every moment of Spectre even when not much is
happening, and the suspense is high enough to hold your interest for
the full 2-and-a-half hours.Spectre is not perfect. Much of what happens narratively is
predictable, a few lines don't go over too well in context, and you
eventually find something out about Blofeld that is pretty ridiculous
taking previous Bond canon into account. Also, given Waltz's reputation
for knocking villainous roles out of the park, he's noticeably
underused here. But these flaws don't tarnish the pure entertainment
value to be had. What you want in a James Bond movie is over-the-top
action surrounding the world's greatest spy who's up against unbeatable
odds yet still comes out on top thanks to his charisma and general
badassery, and this is precisely what Spectre delivers. Daniel Craig
may or may not return as Bond, and if he doesn't, this movie serves as
a perfect send-off. But as the series constantly reminds us, "James
Bond will return...," and Spectre is just another welcome chapter in
the immense story of everybody's favorite super spy.
