3
Takes a promising premise and butchers its execution.

The fact that Wrong Turn became a franchise in the first place is
baffling, not that I'm complaining. The original was essentially The
Texas Chainsaw Massacre meets The Hills Have Eyes, and it was great for
what it was, but hardly original enough to warrant the franchise
treatment. Then it got an action-packed, direct-to-video sequel
featuring Henry Rollins kicking all sorts of inbred cannibal ass, and
it was awesome. Then the sequels kept coming and coming; Wrong Turn 4
has some merit in its own trashy sort of way, but 3 and 5 are among the
worst "films" ever made. So going into Wrong Turn 6: Last Resort, you
know not to expect top shelf cinema. But at the very least, you hope
for some camp value, gratuitous nudity, and brutal kills.Wrong Turn 6 tries something unique to the franchise, though: a
psychological angle. It's a story about a guy who inherits a large
mansion from an unknown relative, and the mansion turns out to be the
home and breeding grounds for the grotesque inbred cannibals we've come
to know and love. The psychological aspect comes into play with the
mansion's caretakers, distant relatives to the protagonist, and how
they gradually lure him away from the reality that he once knew,
represented by his oblivious group of friends, and eventually seduce
him into their demented family culture. It's quite disturbing actually,
and there are plenty of wince-inducing scenes here. The problem is the
writing, directing, and acting - the bare necessities for a good film.The dialogue is horrendous; sadly, not in a so-bad-it's-funny sort of
way. Things aren't much better acting-wise. It's not like great actors
could have done much with a script like this, but these people are so
unconvincing in their performances that the dialogue-driven scenes
become downright aggravating to sit through. The sole exception is
Sadie Katz as the caretaker Sally, who gives an unsettlingly sensual
conviction to her character. She's by far the most alluring part of the
film and deserves props for adding some credibility to the otherwise
irredeemably bland cast. In regards to the directing, it can feel like
you're watching a soft-core porn in one scene and then a graphic,
torture-porn ridden snuff film in another. This may be due to the
writing, but there's not even an attempt at building suspense. It just
transitions from scene to scene with no regard to consistency in tone,
pacing, or atmosphere; until finally, the movie ends.Again, there are admittedly great ideas buried under the disastrous
execution. The plot is a nice change of pace for the series, the deaths
are gruesome, and the ending is no doubt unnerving. Sadly, Wrong Turn 6
is bereft of production value, and the subject matter is too bleak to
be enjoyed in a campy, fun way. It's a dreary exercise in gratuity;
from the glorious nudity to the grisly gore, it's all shock and no awe.
If you've seen the previous five installments, you might as well watch
this one - it's a hell of a lot better than 5. But don't go in hoping
for a return to the schlocky entertainment value of 2 or the genuine
terror of the original because you sure as hell won't find either in
Wrong Turn 6.
