1
Insulting

Do not trust any review above 2 stars. I think such users are payed
reviewers.I went to watch this "movie" not expecting much, but what i get was a
total frustration. I'd like to get a refund for the ticked i payed because i felt cheated.
The movie is insulting to human intelligence. Totally pointless,
superficial and from a scientific point of view, is an insult to every
scientist. In addition i hope the NASA will call the production to a
courtyard for how they have been represented in the movie. Acting is quite often terrible too, no psychological immersion, all is
a joke and with a little montage everything become possible... this
movie is a waste of money and time, i want my money back!!!Do not waste money and time over this one!THE SPOILER PART REAT AT YOUR OWN DISCRECTION: Think about : 1- growing potato over a soil not tested fertilized with
astronauts "poo"... what about bacteria ? What about soil minerals and
PH ? ... why he had potatoes in a martian station? (that's a joke)2- why there is no scientific team studying and calculating ? Just a
bunch of guys wandering around saying "yes" to the big boss or the
minor actor acting like the "genius" ?? 3- No information control at the NASA center??? Are you kidding me ???
An astronauts left alone over mars, does a real-time chatting with a
"guy" (not even a psychologist) and such conversations are real-time
public shared !!!! ARE YOU F*****G KIDDIN ME????? 4- sorry i forgot to mention that in such movie radiation are totally
ignored, as you will never see the reflecting visor down even in "free
space" while glancing at sunThere are tons of those nonsenses in the movie... i just have time to
write down 4, but all the movie is 2 hours of such nonsenses.TO CONCLUDE: this "movie" is an insult to the viewer, who liked it does
ignore even the basic concepts of science, a terrible superficial plot.
This "movie" is a scam, a fraud to steal our money. I've been cheated,
listen to me and don't be fooled keep you time and money for something
better.
