1
It is just another pretentious, mediocre film

Guardians of the Galaxy is just another mediocre film. Under the
pretence of future, it sneaked in embraces of the past. Perhaps it
tried to be both, but it was neither a serious film nor a comedy. It
failed to trigger any deeper emotion inside me. Its humour was out of
context. There were too many characters, most of which were not
properly developed. The purposes of existence of those figures were
very confusing. I'll comment in detail on the triggering of deeper
emotions and the humour in the following 2 paragraphs.Someone commented that the films like the Dark knights series set a
standard that superhero films must be deep and thoughtful. That person
further commented that this film, Guardians of the Galaxy challenged
this standard. I generally don't like dogmas. But here it's not at all
about dogmas. It is just the fact that those "deep" ones could trigger
deeper emotions, or provoke thoughts, or inspire the audiences, or help
the audiences learn something, or help the audiences learn themselves
better. By these, the audiences like, think about, involuntarily
recall, remember and give high scores for those "deep" films. Of course
different people have different opinions on deepness. So, I don't
comment on the deepness of Guardians of the Galaxy. Just commenting on
triggering deeper emotions, or provoking thoughts, or inspiring me, or
helping me learn something or learn myself better, unfortunately,
Guardians of the Galaxy did none of these to me. So, it just didn't
make me feel that way, that it was one of those all-time great films.Someone commented that Guardians of the Galaxy was not a serious film,
but rather, it was a great, light-hearted comedy. Even for this, I
don't think I could agree. Great humour exists in context. In the right
context, something plain could be hilarious. Out of context, brilliant
jokes were just nothing. In Guardians of the Galaxy, too much humour
ran out of context. For example, the raccoon said later, that he asked
for one prisoner's prosthetic leg was just a joke. What did this
convey? It was clever to play such heartless jokes on your partners
when it was time to be serious? No. How about it tried to portray a
figure, the raccoon, who was unfazed in front of great danger? But then
you had to make the situation look dangerous. Even in The Wizard of Oz
(1939), the scenes felt more creepy than here in the prison. The prison
here felt just like a noisy second-hand market. So, I didn't find the
joke funny and didn't know why it was in the film otherwise either.
There were many such lines. I knew they were intended to be something
to make people laugh, but I just didn't feel that entertained at those
improper moments.All in all, Guardians of the Galaxy has no place on the all-time great
list. Perhaps it was the last joke it could play, on itself, being put
into the Top 250 list. Among those great films, its mediocrity would
just manifest itself. Just within the first month of its release, it
dropped 20 places on the Top 250 list from the 34th to the 54th. As
time goes on, this film will likely drop further when the enthusiasm
fades after its initial surge. There are great films, like In the Name
of the Father (1993), A Beautiful Mind (2001) etc. They were not on the
Top 250 list before, but gradually rose up and emerged into the
all-time great list. Just on the contrary, Guardians of the Galaxy will
gradually drop out of the Top 250 list.
