1
Horrible

Words can't describe how disappointing this film was . Cassandra Clare
effed this up . it had the potential of being something good.. lets
start with the characters Alec (Kevin Zegers) Is your character going thru a language dilemma ?
Are you British , or American..& No one other than the fans of the
books got the gay vibe off him, so it was balls confusing to everyone
else when Clary outed him . 0/10Isabelle (Jemima West)Pretty enough for the character, but why change her entire personality
from the book? & not to mention her height.. 4/10Simon(Robert Sheehan) Perfect Simon , from top to bottom But Cassandra
Clare,why would you allow an entire story arc change for this
character. again other than the fans , no one had a clue why he didn't
need his glasses anymore.. and why all of a sudden he is a day
walker... where was the rat , where was the birth of a vampire , where
was his Jewish jokes!!! this character was the seconded most
disappointing portal. 5/10 Jace (Jamie Campbell Bower)what the eff ... this , this is not jace. Jamie looks like he is a drug
addict , scrawny , unflattering , and not to mention the lack of
chemistry between jace and Clary on film. Disgusting performance.. #1
most disappointing thing about this entire film was him . 0/10Clary (Lily Collins) sigh , obviously this was a money grab of a
casting choice.0/10 Valentine (Jonathan Rhys Meyers) If you make such a fuss in the book
about his white hair ....WHY DOESN'T HE HAVE WHITE HAAAAAIR!!! arg. JRM
, was a terrible Valentine . He made that character into a stubborn
child , and not the sly evil devil valentine should've been . And
really hodge makes up the idea for jace to be your son REALLY ?!?!?!?
bull just bull ! 0/10Jocelyn (Lena Headey) She wasn't that bad actually , stayed true to
character , but i blame the script and how is was made that made her
character look like a fool. & Oh , and she has a bad case of the duck
lips.. 6/10Now to talk about the movie itself ( i'll keep it short)Too fast , did not stay true to the book of characters , horrible
cinematography, the cheesiest soundtrack, and way too jumpy for fans
and newbies alike . Sorry for the harsh review , in fact its my first and most likely my
last.But after watching this movie i was heartbroken and i needed to
share my frustration with anyone willing to read this, My grammar &
spelling are very poor i realize this , so take it as it is and if you
go and see this movie go in knowing its not what your wanting to see. -Dancia
