1
Absolute Rubbish, no story, no characters, just special effects

It is unbelievable that JK Rowling's name is even attached to this
film.The discipline and thought that went into the Harry Potter characters
and story certainly wasn't applied to this catastrophe, which, like the
Hobbit and so many other Hollywood regurgitation(s), merely seeks
massive profits by piggybacking on a successful franchise while being
utterly devoid of substance.It isn't even worth going into detail. There is only one truly likable
character, though you can't relate to ANY character as we know
absolutely nothing about them, nor do they have any developed
relationships with each other. The entire script is built around the magical creatures doing damage to
NYC, again, a ridiculous premise, as the damage is massive and there is
no backlash. The complicated boundaries between the magical and
non-magical worlds and people, so well laid out in HP, are completely
absent. The most ridiculous example of idiotic, careless detail is that
for most of the scenes on the streets of NYC, it is practically a ghost
town, whereas in reality, NYC in the 1920s was nearly as densely
populated as it is now. Perhaps more so, not worth it to fact check
this. And Eddie Redmayne as the lead was totally inaccessible, not engaging
and half of his speech literally unintelligible. Fully one third into
the movie it is finally established that he, the lead character, is
closer to magical creatures than humans, but by then, not only do we
not care about him or like him, but really the script gives him not ONE
real relationship wherein to show forth his character. Who is he? Where
does he come from? We don't know. Anyway, a horrible choice for a lead
character, someone who has no emotional connection to any characters.
Even his relations to the animals is explored surface level, there is
no one relationship with anyone or anything that develops throughout
the story and makes the audience care about the character. Only
superficial plot-related details are given and there is no emotional or
human life at all.This is the same way all the characters, every single one, is treated.
They are merely 2 dimensional props, there to perpetuate a plot that is
mostly centered around special effects and hubris action, magical
creatures rampaging here and there, and, as I said, unrealistically,
going on undetected.Literally, not one shining point to this film. Another disgrace to
storytelling, devoid of all substance and creativity, pumped out of the
Warner Bros fecal-making factory. Utterly disappointed.
