2
Second Worst Movie Of The Year

When I initially saw the trailer to this movie I immediately knew that
this movie was going to be absolute garbage. Making a movie just to set
up future sequels is a horrible idea since it removes all tension in
the movie. Although I expected the movie to be bad, I didn't expect a
contender to Worst Movie of the Year (first is XxX: Return of Xander
Cage). Almost everything this movie does is horrible due to bad acting,
despite having big actors, bad cinematography, bad plot, and horrible
characters. One mediocre thing about this movie was the special
effects. So let's begin by talking about the worst thing of the movie:1.Characters: The characters in this movie are the absolute worst.
There is not one likable or memorable character in this movie except
John C. Reily's character. All the others are uninteresting, stupid,
and not memorable in the slightest. One example of this would be San,
played by Tian Jing. Despite San being a "main character", she is never
introduced (if she was it must have been a second long) and is always
in the background saying about two lines in the whole movie. The only
reason I can think of why her character is introduced is to appeal to
the Asian crowd the studio was marketing this movie to. The rest of the
characters are just as boring as San with everyone doing a horrible job
at acting. It is apparent that the director was trying to make the
marine characters likable. However, unlike movies that had likable
marine characters like Predator and Aliens, Kong: Skull Island's
marines are the most boring characters ever and don't evoke emotion
when they die, except maybe happiness. The only good character in this
movie is John C. Reily. Even though he would occasionally stop the
movie's pacing with his joke's, he was clearly the only one who tried
their best.2.Setting: Another weakness of this movie is its setting. After my
viewing of the movie I realized that there was no reason for this movie
to take place during the Vietnam War other than to give an excuse to go
to locations in Asia to appeal to Asian countries. However, the island
is interesting and has a variety of environment, which does add some
anticipation. 3.Kong/Creatures: Now it's time for the meat n' potatoes of the movie,
the creatures. In Peter Jackson's portrayal of King Kong, the creatures
fit in the story. However, in Kong: Skull Island, it seems like the
director went outside and made whatever he saw big. Another problem is
that the creatures are always alone. In 2005 King Kong, we saw the
creatures in big packs that showed how large the population was.
Another problem was the main bad creature which didn't fit with the
real life creatures featured in the film.4.Inconsistencies/ Stupid plot devices: One main problem with this
movie is all the stupid devices that keep the story more exciting. One
example would be how bullets don't hurt the main evil creatures but a
sword does. Also, Kong being immune to fire is very distracting and
ends up making the ending ridiculous. One distracting inconsistency
would be the scene when they head towards the storm that supposedly
hides Skull Island. When they are on the ship it is clear that there is
about five choppers on the ship. However, when they start heading into
the storm there are about twelve choppers. One reason for this is to
inflate the number of casualties after Kong destroys all the
helicopters. In the end, Kong: Skull Island is a very bad movie. However, if you are
able to turn off your brain and not realize everything bad about the
movie, then you will enjoy it.Final Verdict: 2/10
