1
Mistaken

Oh, sure, there are a ton of sequels that both "take" down a series,
but also "take" it too far. Taken 3 is the A Good Day to Die Hard of
the series and by God, I hope both movies end the two franchises. I recently gave Taken 2 another chance after not liking it the first
time it was released. Wow. If anyone thought that movie was bad, just
watch the third chapter I initially was hoping would be the Last
Crusade of the series. False. And I actually like Taken 2 the second
time a whole lot more than the first viewing.This absolutely atrocious sequel that has nothing to do with the
series, let alone anything to do with "TAKING," is basically a
sometimes action script that was altered to piggyback on the successful
series. Yes. Just like Troll 2 and just about as bad.After an incredibly stale opening that, again, feels nothing like a
"Taken" movie, it continues with basically, the same dumb opening of
Alien 3. What follows is an amazingly predictable movie where a
wrongfully accused 62-year-old actor acts like someone as athletic as
someone a third of his age and can escape explosions as easily as
Batman dodging a nuclear explosion in under 5 seconds. It's no wonder
Liam Neeson starred in The A-Team movie – he never has a scratch on him
after unbelievably surviving multiple car wrecks that would easily kill
999 out of 1,000 people.What this movie should've done was to fire Liam, hire Jason Statham,
rename this as Transporter 4 and acknowledge the silliness like that
series did. The decision is clear: Watch 2008's Taken and repeatedly. No need to
see #2 or #3. Dear God, please let there be no fourth Taken. I can't
possibly "take" this anymore.* * *Final thoughts: Lesson learned – to clear your name from a crime you
didn't commit, kill as many people in cold blood while leaving more
than enough evidence behind – not to mention, admitting to the police
that you murdered someone – and then you can live happily ever after.
For shits and giggles, run a car into a plane taking off that's holding
the very person you're trying to protect. Don't worry, it'll survive
the explosion, as, um, most planes do.
