1
This film needs to be chainsaw massacred.

I don't usually rate films a 1. I'm fair with my ratings. A rating of 1
is saved for the worst of the worst, extremely bad movies. And this is
one of those movies. Where to begin?Going in a different direction than the last two installments which
were reboots of the franchise, this movie is a direct continuation of
the 1974 film, ignoring all of its four sequels that followed. News
flash: if you're going to ignore sequels, make sure your film is better
than those sequels.The film had some obvious plot holes, which I could forgive if the
movie weren't so bad. The main character, having been born in 1974 when
the events of the original took place, is played by a 26-year-old
actress who could play a 20 year old. And yes, the movie is set in the
present, as shown with the newest iPhone. I guess the writers didn't
think anyone would notice. But I don't even have an issue with that.
That would be perfectly passable, if the rest of the movie wasn't a
cancer-ridden train wreck.This film, unlike all of the past installments, only features
Leatherface without his infamous cannibalistic family. Leatherface just
isn't the same and doesn't have enough charisma to carry a whole movie
by himself. What made the past incarnations decent horror movies, was
the entire cannibalistic family with Leatherface as a side character.
Here, no cannibalism goes on, which makes the TCM movies what they are.
The writers try to turn Leatherface into a solo killer the next Jason,
Michael Myers, Freddy Krueger (as if we have a shortage of those) and
it's not going to fly.The acting is atrocious. There are no good performances in this film.
Not one. The dialogue is cringeworthy; there are one-liners in this
film, such as "you get em cuz!" and "welcome to Texas mother*cker" that
will cause most to get that embarrassed feeling in their stomach.And then, that ending.*SPOILERS*In a quick change of events, Heather, the lead in the film, transitions
from running from the sadistic killer that is Leatherface into SIDING
with him. Yes, you heard right. She gets on Leatherface's good side.
Why, you ask? Well, she is Leatherface's cousin and all, and apparently
she has a change of heart when she finds out the town torched her
cannibalistic, murdering family members back in 1974. What a horrible
town to do such a thing...Which leads us to the climax, where now, Leatherface and Heather are
after the corrupt mayor and police force of the town. Apparently, the
movie wants us to sympathize with Leatherface, a guy who just murdered
all of Heather's friends a few minutes prior, but she seems to have
forgiven him for that. All of the sudden, Leatherface is put in the
protagonist role, and the new enemy of the film becomes the corrupt
mayor, who torched the cannibalistic, murdering family years ago. I
mean, they deserved it right? Well, the mayor acts like a jerk, so I
guess we're supposed to hate him.This film makes the 2003 version look like a great contribution to
cinema, in the same way watching Mortal Kombat after Mortal Kombat:
Annihilation will make you appreciate it so much more.
