7
***SPOILER*** the documents should have revealed more

the premise for the story is fantastic but the makers should have
worked harder to make things clearer (than the play) as the movie
progressed. this is my own theory of what happened in the film. (BTW i
totally think the movie has a lot in common with Japanese horror flicks
including the ghost who is determined to stay evil and all the dead
kids). Anyways, back to my own theories now:when Kipps stays at the house overnight. he had access to a tonne of
documentary evidence that could have been used to expand on why
jennet's sister took her kid away and why she wouldn't let her see him.I'm guessing most probably because jennet was already mentally unsound
before the child was born and the child was born out of wedlock because
the father did not want to marry a crazy chick or the affair was broken
off before the wedding causing her to lose her mind. (the father's
surname is on the birth certificate). at the house, Kipps finds a picture of the Drablows where jennet is
seen in one of the windows which would suggest that she lived with
them. also, she hangs herself in the nursery at the same house which
cements the fact that she was living there when the child was alive. so why does she send Alice letters instead of saying things to her
face? since she was already living there, jennet might have had access to the
child though she may not have been allowed to have him call her mom or
to even get to meet the child often enough which might have strained
her unsound mind even more. now they never really showed how Nathaniel was left to sink into the
marsh when everyone else survived. a boy of 7 is definitely agile
enough to be able to jump over the back end of a coach or to hang onto
his mother's enormous dress to avoid drowning. and his body is found right in the middle of the carriage too which
would suggest that he was probably incapacitated or sedated/really ill
and was already on the floor of the carriage and not moving when the
carriage was sinking. since he wasn't accepting jennet as his mother, perhaps she drugged
him/made him ill before this mishap occurred and since his body was
never recovered, they couldn't confirm a poisoning or grave previous
injury. or maybe jennet tricked him into eating something poisonous or
jump off a floor or some other way tried to make him kill himself and
Alice and her husband were just rushing him to a doctor when the
carriage fell into the marsh. this would explain why jennet hates kids
and has them kill themselves. she did it to her own kid too. and the
guilt and the insanity made her blame her sister and commit suicide.and the reason why she hates her sister is not because Alice doesn't
let her see the child or give him her cards, it's because she is
jealous of her and wants a husband, child, house, the whole shindig
which her poor mental health and premarital affair and having a child
out of wedlock made impossible.jennet kills kids to exact revenge on happy families because she
couldn't have one herself. and the reason why she keeps the souls of
the kids with her is because none of them accept her as their mother
(the daily's kid keeps visiting his mother)however, in the end, the joke's on jennet as Joseph's soul is saved by
the soul of his father and the family is reunited in death. in the end
she shows her face and that of the other dead kids to Sam so he too
becomes a believer and possibly starts to take his wife's claims that
their dead son contacts her more seriously.in the sequel, I'm guessing jennet and the kids haunt soldiers and they
(adults) die which means that her curse (kids will die) was broken off
by Kipps.
