8
Powerful story, will move you to tears. Be sure to bring plenty of Kleenex.

Just saw this at TIFF . I saw the trailer a few days before the
screening and I have to admit the trailer alone made me a little
emotional. I mean just the thought of a 5 year old separated from his
family for 25 years is bad enough, add in the fact that he was lost in
India, a country of over a billion people and was the child of an
uneducated poor single mother and you are looking at a very stressful
situation.This happens there everyday..and most children never find their way
back. They either end up dead or in the hands of heartless people who
use children for various illegal / unethical operations. The fact that
one boy survived this situation and went on to tell his story is very
inspiring and this fantastic film did justice to showing it on screen.There wasn't a single scene in the movie which doesn't suck you in.
Hats off to Dev Patel. He managed to make you feel the character's pain
just by the way he looked at a jalebi (indian sweet that his brother
and him fantasized about back in India). Special shoutout to the young
actor who played little Saroo. His performance blew me away. It would
be difficult to watch any child go through what he did and the fact
that he was absolutely adorable looking made it even harder. The movie explores some great themes: What happens to lost children in
developing countries? How do poor, illiterate citizens of a country go
about finding their lost children...who helps them? What are the
dangers faced by these lost children? Why do certain people choose to
adopt? How do adopted children adapt to their surroundings? Especially
when they're transplanted so many miles away from home where they do
not even speak the language. Do children every fully recover from
traumatic childhood experiences? Does one forget their original family
if they never see them again after the age of 5? As an adopted child do
you ever completely feel like you fit into your new life? What is the
bond with your adoptive parents like? The film touches upon all these
themes while primarily being about the physical and emotional journey
of a young man finding his way back home with very few clues to work
with.I kid you not, I could hear the whole theatre crying during several
parts of the movie and most people had tissues in their hands. So be
prepared. If you're in the mood for a heart wrenching drama with an
uplifting ending, go watch this one once its out! The lead cast as well
as supporting members have all done a wonderful job. You will not be
disappointed!
