9
The Amazing Spider Man 2

Initial Review: The Amazing Spider Man 2 is definitely one of the best
movies of the year! I also believe that it is the best Spider Man film
to date. Marc Webb masterfully fuses action, romance and comedy into a
film that is fun and moving for everyone.The Positives: I liked the first "Amazing" that was released, but there
were some problems I had with it. I think this film took these
challenges head on. I felt like there wasn't much fighting in the first
movie, but this was vastly improved. The romance was top-notch much
like the first film, and the special effects went above my
expectations. *(Spoiler)* I may be hated for this, but I thought it was
a good move to kill off Gwen Stacy this go around for two reasons: it
needed to follow the comics and it set a much darker tone for the rest
of the franchise (which will be needed for future films like "Venom
Carnage" and "The Sinister Six." Towards the middle of the movie I was
really getting the vibe that this was mostly a kid-directed movie, but
the death of Gwen brought it back to the tragic feeling of Spider Man
that was so popular in the comics (God I'm going to miss her). I really
enjoyed the villains which added to the fun of the movie.The Negatives: Now this film wasn't all roses but it was exceptional.
One problem I had was the little screen time provided for the Green
Goblin (after transformation) and the Rhino. Critics often referred to
the film as having three villains, but it really felt like one with two
side battles to tease the next film. The character who dons the rhino
suit has all but 12 minutes and the Green Goblin (once again, after
transformation has like six minutes of screen time (approximately).
However, I do agree with the critics that the back story for Harry
Osborn felt awkward, and there was one two many story lines running
through this movie.Conclusion: I gave this movie 9 out of 10, due to the facts that it has
so many positive aspects and with minimal negative issues (that are
really more of a nuisance than anything else. I highly recommend this
film for everyone.
