8
Look At You with Your 48 Percent Body Fat

This is not your typical Arnold Schwarzenegger film that most of us are
use to from the 80s and even the 90s. Instead we get a film that relies
mostly its its good story with very good action scenes here and there.
Some may be disappointed by this as we are all use to those amazing
summer blockbusters that Arnold was in in the past. Arnold is not
getting any younger. I know this and we all should know it. However
this film is a very fun film to see at the theaters.The story in my opinion is very strong. With twist and turns throughout
the film it will leave you guessing. Written by Skip Woods who is known
for his intense action films deliveries another solid outing with his
script. While weak at times I felt it flowed nicely throughout the
course of this nearly two hour long film. Also written by David Ayer,
who directs the film as well, is hot off of his popular, and very good
mind you, End of Watch. You can tell the deeper parts of the story was
crafted by Ayer while Woods set up the amazing action scenes.As I just mention David Ayer directs the film in addition to writing
the film. Ayers handles the film amazingly. While this film is not wall
to wall with action scenes when the action hits the screen you can tell
Ayer had great command of the action in front of him. The action is
bloody, and that is putting it lightly. This is a rated R film, and
this genre as of late has been forced feed watered down PG-13 action
films. Thankfully Ayer does away with that in this film.Acting is top of the line. Schwarzenegger pulls off another great film
in terms of his acting. You can feel the pain he is going through
throughout the film. Other members of the cast such as Sam Worthington,
Joe Manganiello, Josh Holloway, Terrence Howard, Max Martini, Mireille
Enos, and Olivia Williams round out a very amazing cast of actors in
the film. They gel perfectly throughout the film, and when the plot
curve balls come they are believable.Overall while its not your old school Arnold Schwarzenegger film, it
sure provides a deep story, with amazing acting, and while few action
scenes, the action we see is done amazingly. Fans of the action genre
who like to see real R rated action will likely enjoy this film. Others
may be turned off since its not your average 80s or 90s Arnold film. To
you I would say wait for rental. For people who hold opinions I do this
is a must see right away. As always Arnold throws out some amazing one
liners, so keep a look out for them.
