4
Where the comedy fails, the action will keep you entertained

The now infamous "wolf-pack" needs no introduction. Bradley Cooper, Ed
Helms and Zach Galifianakis return for the third and final sequel of
The Hangover. Breaking the pattern of the first two films, the story
doesn't begin with a bachelor party and morning after hangover wherein
the pack is left to try to recall what happened the night before and
find the missing wolf. The Hangover III begins instead with a funeral.A funeral is a good way to introduce it's audience into this much
darker world the wolf pack finds themselves in. Thankfully the comedy
doesn't seem as desperate, trying to squeeze laughs out of us with
shock and disgust, as the previous sequel did. No, Part III focuses
more on a revenge story filled with almost non-stop action.The original Hangover film is a classic and introduced the world to the
genius that is Zach Galifianakis. It was fresh, original, shocking and
hilarious fun. The Hangover II was not only one of the weakest sequels
ever made but also one of the saddest excuses for a comedy. It lacked
any originality and came off more as a bad remake than a sequel. For
instance, instead of Las Vegas it was Bangkok. Instead of a baby, they
had a monkey. Instead of a rooftop, it was an out-of-order elevator.
The only bits that weren't the same as the original, as I mentioned
above, were additional low-brow shocks.The Hangover Part III, though not nearly as bad as the second film,
still doesn't stand out as a great comedy. In fact, it's more of an
action/thriller with some very dark comedy mixed in thanks to Zach
Galifianakis' character. What truly holds the film back is the
character of Mr. Chow, who, as in the previous films, is as irritating
and degrading as a character can get. He only works as a villain yet it
seems director Todd Phillips isn't sure whether to make us hate Mr.
Chow or glorify this cocaine-loving, sexual deviant with absolutely no
redeeming qualities.The funniest part of The Hangover III is that as an action/thriller, it
is better than anything else Hollywood is currently producing in the
genre. So where the comedy fails, the action and thrills are guaranteed
to keep you entertained. It's also refreshing to see a Hollywood film
with action that doesn't seem to be secretly funded by the CIA.
