6
There is a lot to admire here, too bad a couple of bad casting decisions and a flimsy story almost ruins the party.

Sam Raimi's excursion into the Land of Oz is somewhat of a sight to
behold, with great sets and wonderful use of CGI that does not over
power the senses or your cinematic tastes. Too bad for this film, bad
casting decisions on two of the characters and a way too simplistic
story sets it back somewhat. Raimi does not throw up too many
computerize affects and a great deal of Oz is old school charm with
grand sets and costuming. That benefits this film greatly and makes Oz
a real cinematic treat. The performances are for the most part spot on
with great turns by Rachel Weisz (Weisz has the most fun in her role)
Michelle Williams, who gives a noble performance as Glenda the good
witch and the third best belongs to the voice over of Zach Braff, who
gives a funny performance as a talking monkey sidekick. With these
performances and Raimi's technical savvy, the film almost takes off,
almost. What keeps it from being any better is the story, which is fine
but flimsy and predicable. Yes, it is a sort of prequel and you know
what is going to happen but there are no surprises to be found here and
most of the so-called surprises are ruined thanks to the marketing if
you have been following this movie. Another factor that keeps this
movie from soaring to better heights is some of the other casting,
which is baffling to say the least. Mila Kunis is disappointing as the
younger sister Theodora, who of course becomes the Wicked Witch of the
West. No flare in her part and just looks miserable through out the
entire film. The biggest casting violation is James Franco who comes
across as sleepy and somewhat creepy as the main character Oscar (Oz).
He overacts in some parts and under acts in others and is with out a
doubt the weakest member of the cast.While there is a lot to admire with this film, the problems it has
(Mainly the story and the miscasting of Kunis and Franco) keep it from
achieving a better grade from me.B-
