1
Does Whatever A Spider Can't?

From someone who has followed the adventures of the webslinger for
decades, I believe that this may just be the worst Spider-Man movie
ever made. It takes an established character who has over 60 years of
history to draw from and tosses out everything that makes
Spider-Man...well...Spider-Man.Everything about this characterization can be summed up in one word:
incompetence. This goes beyond bumbling or stumbling due to growing
pains - this is a Spider-Man that can't seem to remember that he is
freakin' Spider-Man! For example, when climbing to the top of the
Washington Memorial, he suddenly becomes intimidated by the height that
he standing at. Consider that for a moment - Spider-Man scared of
heights! Isn't his most famous power the fact that he climbs and swings
between tall buildings? Considering that there are over 100 buildings
in NYC taller than the monument, surely he's been this high before.I don't think he actually wins a single fight in this movie as well. If
not for the interference of others (or their mercy), he would have lost
every time. In fact, he doesn't actually beat the main villain at the
end of the movie! If not for the fact that the Vulture decides to grab
a crate of tech (that explodes) rather than finishing him off, then the
villain wins and the hero is destroyed.Tons of other internal inconsistencies abound - he's strong enough to
catch cars but he can't punch through glass - he knocks himself out by
jumping into the top of a tractor trailer but can have an entire
building dumped on him without injury, etc.He also lacks any concern whatsoever for protecting his identity - a
problem with every Spider-Man movie before this to be sure - but here
it is taken to new heights. By the end of the film, we have 6
individuals who know who Peter Parker is including the villain who
figures it out within the length of a car ride. Not surprising
considering he and his friend are always casually discussing it in the
middle of crowded school hallways and cafeterias.If you love the source material (comics), then do not watch this film.
It will give you bleeding ulcers.
