10
A short review with a longer explanation of why its OK that this movie didn't have any "characters"

Dunkirk is, in my opinion, yet another masterpiece from mastermind
Christopher Nolan. Since everything that is brilliant about the film
has already been said I will briefly write what I think of the film and
also touch on a topic that some people are criticizing the movie for.The fantastically directed film is told from 3 perspectives non
chronologically. It superbly tackles the narrative and the non linear
story doesn't at all pull you away from the intensity of the events
happening on screen that don't stop from 00:00 to the last scene. Hans
Zimmer most likely gives one of the most fitting scores for a war film
ever. Sometimes there is only one note playing followed by heartbeat
sounds and a ticking clock while other times a massive orchestra is
interpreting what is going on on screen. The movie brilliantly projects
the feeling of each and every soldier on the beach to the audience.
Confusion, turmoil and fear. The cinematography was breathtaking and I
felt anxious throughout most of the run time. There is no lead in this
film and I can't really say anyone stuck out as giving a brilliant
performance because it wasn't needed and I'll explain why.The biggest criticisms of Dunkirk that I've heard of so far are that
the characters are lacking in depth and that we aren't given anything
to be invested in them. I feel like Nolan was trying (successfully) to
make the audience care for each and every one of the men on the beach.
He needed to have some form of "main characters" to be in the story so
that we can see the events unfold from the direct perspective of all of
the soldiers. Usually in war films (I'll use saving private Ryan as an
example) the plot revolves around certain soldiers (like Cpt. Miller
and Ryan) being in a war and doing things in the war but its still
about THEM not THE WAR as much. In my opinion Dunkirk is a telling the
STORY OF DUNKIRK. Not of Harry Style's character or Tom Hardy's
character but of Dunkirk. What any of the "main characters" felt, every
other soldier felt. Nolan resorted more to film-making techniques to
tell the story rather than dialogue and that is why some people might
have had a problem with the lack of character depth but realistically
this type of terrible event wouldn't be a place for someone to
"develop" as a character but rather a event where MEN WANTED ONLY
SURVIVAL, and Nolan showed that perfectly. As for what the top review
of Dunkirk on IMDb says about 'lack of emotion' in the film, I believe
this to be a completely incorrect statement. Maybe he was referring to
the lack of 'brotherhood amongst men' or the feeling of moral or
something epic like that. Again the longing for the 'Saving Private
Ryan' format of war films. What the reviewer fails to see is that
realistically there was NO emotion on that beach besides fear and
confusion. And I can safely say that Nolan and Zimmer and the DP all
successfully gave us those feelings.9.5/10
