6
Fun, Family, and Friends Make It Feel Like Home

Not in the mood for scares this weekend? No problem, Hollywood has got
you non-horror movie goers covered with another romantic comedy. This
weekend, the legendary Reese Witherspoon stars in another Hallie
Meyers-Shyer work, in hopes of tickling your romantic fantasy on a less
risqué scale. Robbie K back again with another movie review on Home
Again. Will this film be another mundane addition to her lineup, or do
we perhaps have something special with this flick? Let's get started to
answer that question, shall we?LIKES:Charming/Cute: Like her works in the past, Meyers-Shyer has done a
fantastic job building an adorable world/situation for our characters
to play in. No major tension, violence, or heart- stopping shock
moments, exist in this movie. Instead it is just a simple tale that
will pull at your heartstrings while portraying those romantic morals
many wish to see. Such a positive atmosphere certainly offsets the
horror atmosphere of the other movie most likely to be in your theater. Fun: With that positive atmosphere comes a fun movie, filled with small
sequences that are wholesome, innocent, and surprisingly entertaining.
Like a Hallmark Movie on steroids, Home Again takes on plenty of life
lessons that are tested against the modern society trends today.
Loyalty, romance, job work, responsibility, and child rearing are just
some of the things you'll get in this movie. And while tasteful, and
certainly predictable, the journey to addressing the obstructions in
our character's life brings about some simplistic laughs, a plethora of
smiles, and a few tears for whose hearts are warmed by Meyer-Shyer's
writing. Acting: Despite what some say, I found the acting okay and well-fitting
given the environment of the movie. Witherspoon herself felt very
natural in the role of a single mom looking to find herself again. She
brought great energy to the film, all while keeping herself grounded
amidst the chaos of all the relationships. The kids were an adorable
addition, each playing their parts well to offset the romantic drama
loaded into this film. I particular liked the older daughter story and
how it integrated a different side of the guys to help solve a
different problem. Speaking of the guys all three "eligible" bachelors
were decent in playing their assigned roles, from younger brother
bringing peace, to the stud that caught Reese's eyes. Of all them, Jon
Rudnitsky was my favorite and the most dynamic of the characters being
integrated into the film. A nice blend of comedy and drama, Jon's
character kept the characters well integrated into the mix. The short run time: A predictable tale like this can get old, fast.
Fortunately, they had the foresight to cut this movie to the shorter
end, telling the tale in enough details to get the job done. A plus on
my side, though many may feel robbed of a full story they pine for
given her past films. DISLIKES:Rushed elements: Despite the short time being a nice gift, Home Again's
brisk pace leaves some key development scrounging for a rebound. So
much potential to really give more layers to the movie, and perhaps get
a few engaging story lines out of the mix would have been the better
route. Especially when it came to the challenges at hand. No major obstacle: Home Again felt like a movie with little struggle,
few challenges, and in all honesty a lackluster tale all in all. It
played a little too close to home and left me just milling about as the
problems seemed to iron themselves away. With all the complicated
relationships crammed into this tale, one would expect a little more
resistance from the awkward shuffling this cast played. Even most
Hallmark movies push back more than this film did before they get to
that mushy-gushy ending that millions fall in love with. Perhaps a
larger challenge might have made for more engaging characters and a
feeling of accomplishment. Characters: Sure they are charming, cute, admirable, and responsible in
many ways, but I have to face the facts the characters are rather one
dimensional. The actors did well with what they were given, but much of
the movie's puppets were a bit boring to me. Much of my fellow audience
members like their physical appearances the most, but this reviewer had
difficulties attaching to them because of their stunted growth. Even
Reese's character seemed a bit dull, caught in a whirlwind of
indecision before suddenly flipping sides. Even worse, the characters
(like the plot) were predictable, further dulling the film's
entertainment value. Little Candice Bergen: When you sell Murphy Brown in the trailers, I
hope to get more of the spunky actress. Not the case, as Bergen is
reduced to a few nugget lines of dialog that is lost in the "romantic"
tide. Had she been integrated into the movie, I have no doubt the
characters could have grown stronger with her pushing Reese's character
to better herself. The VERDICT: While certainly cute, Home Again was a bit too simplistic for my
tastes, missing the potential to be one of the better romantic
comedies. A rushed story with limited character growth, no real
obstacles to keep you engaged, and some missed comedic elements doesn't
bode well for this predictable tale. However, it is still a fun, feel
good movie that will do its job of entertaining target audiences with
eye candy, simplistic laughs, and an overall warm your cardiac pump
moment that will make you feel good at the end of the day. Not a bad
feeling, but not worth the inflated movie ticket price. My scores:Comedy/Drama/Romance: 6.0 Movie Overall: 5.5
