7
the life of the demented

Crime boss is the name of the game. And there is no hero in this. No
savior, and no happy tales at the end of the rainbow. This is blood and
grit all the way through but it's not all in it. This movie shows the
nature of man, a person, as we were shown the gradual change that
happened to him as tragedies after tragedies happened to him, and thus
show us the unraveling, the change that took him over through out the
course of the movie.There is the love of the father, love of a son, and love of a brother.
This things are what held him to the ground. It's what held him to be
sane in my opinion. And so in the end, we were shown what it is that
made him what he is, but still, I would guess many is with me in this
that this is no excuse, for the crimes, unforgivable and most
unthinkable. In fact, it was in my impression that the character that
Johny Depp played was a psychopath. I mean he was calm, and smiling and
unsuspecting, till the second he pulls a gun on you. That's how I call
those types, not that I've associated myself with those kinds, or so I
think, you never know.But since kids, I have got the sense that they were living in a rough
neighborhood. And it is Brooklyn in the 70s and early 80s, so it seems
justifiable to speculate that it is the kind of environment that would
produce someone likely to be listed as FBI's most wanted list.As I said, there is no hero in this, just pure truth, and as it usually
is, with a changing society where leaders, us secretary attorney, and
some dude that'd take over, there is always, without a doubt, change,
either for the good or bad and this is what I have observed in this
movie. A change of leader, made this criminal group more deadly, but
also, due to that same reason, that same group, meet an ugly decline.
And since this is a society, that caters the good, I must say that it'd
produce well, outstanding law enforcing, disciplined citizens, and as
time goes by, ruthless, evil groups get disinfected. It's not really
that black and white but what I mean is pretty simple.
