6
Neither imaginative enough to stand on its own nor inspired enough as a successful remake, Spike Lee's 'reintepretation' is unlikely to find much of an appreciative audience

Spike Lee's 'reimagining' of the Park Chan-Wook cult classic 'Oldboy'
is a queer creature despite the notable absence of the original's
iconic octopus-slurping scene. Those unfamiliar with Park's original,
which itself was based on a late 1990s Japanese manga, will likely find
it bizarre and even off-putting; and yet those who have seen and loved
Park's 2004 Cannes Gran Prix winner are likely to dismiss this as mild
and underwhelming compared to the original. But most of all, there is
something distinctly Asian in the tale's themes of revenge and solitude
that feel an odd and therefore unsatisfying fit for an Americanised
"reinterpretation".Yes, to call Lee's version a remake will be – if you take the
filmmaker's words for it – akin to blasphemy. According to Lee, he and
his writer Mark Protosevich had not sought to remake Park's movie;
rather, they have returned to the manga by Garon Tsuchiya and Nobuaki
Minegishi to shape a similar yet somewhat different story that keeps
the essential baroque details intact. And so the setup is the same – a
cold- blooded businessman is drugged and held captive in a windowless
hotel room for 20 years, before being let out in a suitcase in the
middle of a field.The ever dependable character actor Josh Brolin plays the titular
character named Joe Doucett, which we are introduced to as a boozy
advertising executive who blows a make-or-break deal by propositioning
his client's wife at the very meeting. His sentence for the next two
decades while in captivity includes watching a ripped off version of
'America's Most Wanted' where he is held as the prime suspect for his
ex-wife's murder, in between being fed the daily news as well as
Chinese dumplings. The question upon his release is not who, but why –
as 'District 9's' Sharlto Copley plainly puts to him after revealing
himself very early into the movie as Joe's captor – which forms the
core of the mystery behind his unusual circumstance.Joe is aided in his subsequent quest for punishment and redemption by a
bartender friend (The Sopranos' Michael Imperioli) as well as a kind-
hearted social worker (Elizabeth Olsen). He has a timeline too – Copley
threatens to kill his daughter in the next 48 hours if he fails to
figure out his identity as well as the reason for his imprisonment.
Neither should be unfamiliar to those who have seen Park's version;
indeed, despite what Lee and Protosevich claim, they have only sought
to vary the details from their predecessor.So instead of an exercise in dentistry when Joe confronts the caretaker
of his prison (Samuel L. Jackson), we are treated to an equally
grotesque sequence where he slices bits of skin from off the man's
throat. Instead of gobbling an octopus live and whole, Joe merely
stares hard at the animal in a restaurant aquarium. And perhaps most
significantly, Joe gets to restage the original film's iconic extended
sequence where his character takes on an entire army of thugs with no
more than a claw hammer and pure rage - a three and a half minute scene
rehearsed for six weeks which to Lee's credit, loses none of its
predecessor's visceral thrills. Notwithstanding the distinct sense of familiarity with the proceedings,
there is just something lost in translation. Park's original was the
second and perhaps most famous instalment of his "Vengeance Trilogy"
whose exploration of redemption and salvation was firmly set against a
unique cultural context; unfortunately, the motivations for Joe's
imprisonment lack that dramatic heft when yanked out of that context,
especially since the inherent familial concepts make much more sense
within an Asian setting. Lee also does himself little favour by
undermining an otherwise grim and thoughtful story with cartoonish
elements, most notably Jackson's garish performance (complete with
blonde ponytail we may add) as Joe's chief jailer turned tormentor.Thankfully, Brolin anchors the titular role with his compelling
presence, built on a single-minded embrace of his character's
vengeance. His transformation from self-pity to determination is a
testament to his prowess as an actor, not to mention his dedication by
having gained and then lost a lot of weight. Olsen provides a
surprisingly warm emotional centre to the movie, especially in
portraying the love angle between her character and Joe - which happens
to be one of the ancillary additions Protosevich has brought to this
adaptation. Copley is similarly excellent as the demented mastermind
behind Joe's depravity, in particular when the two finally confront
each other's demons in the operatic climax.Yet call it what you may, but Lee's "reinterpretation" can never quite
dissociate itself from Park's festival cult classic. Not only do the
key elements remain similar, Lee also retains the iconic touches of the
South Korean original. But beyond the graphic brutality, there is just
something too culturally specific about the story's twists on revenge
and redemption that defy a cross-cultural interpretation. It won't
satisfy fans weaned on Park's version, nor for that matter is it likely
to win over new converts with its uneven mix of fantasy and stylised
naturalism. They'll be baffled, they'll be astonished, but it is
unlikely if you are encountering this tale for the first time that
you'll be impressed.
