8
A Pygmalion tale for this generation.

Warning : This Review Contains Spoilers Wonderfully witty and whimsical movie that Mae Whitman carries and
steals the show as Bianca a clumsy yet sassy and funny nerdy, girl
next-door character who follows the right path focusing on school and
friends not style or guys and her chemistry works well with Wes (Robbie
Arnell) the popular jock who is struggling with science.Another great film initiative of her best friends Casey (Bianca A
Santos) and Jess (Skyler Samuels) are her friends despite her looks and
style. However, Wes clumsily tells her what she was clueless about and
really was not the case of her being the 'designated ugly fat friend.'
That spurred enough incentive for Bianca to leave her friends and get
Wes to help her get a new look and dating dos and don'ts in order to
get the wannabe musician Toby (Nick Eversman) to like her.Yet as any popular girl has a posse of spies like Blair Waldorf. Here
the Queen Bee Madison is Wes's ex (Bella Thorne) with a trashier dream
of reality TV and dating older men as opposed to Chuck Bass and
Columbia. But for now Madison is on and off with Toby and her
reputation will be tarnished if her ex was seen with a geek and people
speculated they're dating.This movie is definitely not "She's All That" but it's good enough for
this generation and anyone for that matter. It's a timeless issue of
popularity, love, friendship, etc. with a few changes in television and
technology references and style. There is a lot of mentions of
hash-tags and videos going viral and what not on screen which shows how
bullying is nonstop today. Also, another issue again for instance,
'Gossip Girl' or most teen romantic comedies if you exclude excess
technology such as, 'Mean Girls' or 'Never Been Kissed.'Not quite realistic but beautiful and shows how foolish and mean youth
can be. This is as close to reality a comedy should be otherwise it
would not be. The script is snappy and serious yet silly which teaches
us that we should not take life too seriously just live in the now and
be as present as we could be. This movie teaches a crucial life lesson
that confidence is key not popularity but education and real
relationships not a fake million friends. Timeless lesson must be put
into consideration. At the end of the day the word duff does not define
a person.
