8
Pacific Rim goes berserk with a great sense of wonder, camp and old-school action.

We all carry a great sense of wonder. It seems to hide away as we get
older, but was always strong and persistent when we were children. We
could sit down and really make something out of nothing physical, or
tip our toy-box all over the floor and just go mad. Pacific Rim is
Guillermo Del Toro at his most unleashed. He's been given the toys for
his sandpit and has gone completely bonkers, but he has also created a
sense of wonder from completely nothing.The plot is simple. Kaiju (monsters) from another dimension break
through to ours and wage war on the planet and us humans must do what
we can to stop them. So we build giant machines called Jaegers. General
audiences are doing the worst thing by comparing this to Transformers
or Battleship simply because of some simple image traits. Well I'm here
to tell you that you're way off and also working comparisons in the
wrong league. Del Toro has crafted an insane amalgamation of Sci-Fi,
old-school thrills, special effects and brilliantly entertaining set
pieces that all meld together in beautiful harmony, with just enough
satisfying human moments and arcs that carry a nice balance of emotion
and camp. It all blends well with the loopiness of it all. Its
Guillermo Del Toro's trademarks turned up to 11, all while going nuts
and having fun with his toys.There's just so much to love, that not even some minor pacing problems
or a couple of sub-par performances can destroy the experience. Mainly
its in the lesser background characters, but for me I'd say that
Charlie Hunnam doesn't quite shine in the lead. He's certainly more
than commendable, but he just doesn't break out here. Idris Elba steals
the spotlight with a look and a bellowed delivery and its amusing to
watch and Rinko Kikuchi has such an incredible skill with her mannerism
and in her eyes, that's its a shock that she isn't in more films. Ron
Perlman comes and goes and works his usual incredible moments.Pacific Rim is triumphant above the rest of the blockbuster herd. It
knows what is missing from the norm and just goes crazy with it. Its a
big, giant load of awesome fun. Prepare your jaw muscles, because
you'll be smiling throughout.(Hint: Stay a couple of minutes into the end credits for an awesome
additional scene)
