8
Monster Mash is a Graveyard Smash

Hotel Transylvania was surprising good. Adam Sandler plays Dracula, the
over bearing father trying to protect his adventurous world traveler
dreamer daughter Mavis (Selena Gomez) from anything human, while at the
same time tries to keep his hotel business running. Adam Sandler's role
as the father figure, is a great new look into the actor's skills
unchecked since Punch Drunk Love and Click, it's nice to see him
playing something else than an annoying stupid voices, immature
characters in movies aimed at teens and men who never grew up. I just
glad he didn't play the "nails scraping on a blackboard"
cringe-inducing way man-child. He is put to the test to try to protect
his daughter Mavis when an young free-spirit, bag pack hostel, human
named Jonathan (Andy Sanberg) walks into the hotel. In fear of losing
his hotel business due to the presence of a human being, he has to
figure out a way to quickly get him away. Dracula is force to dress up
Jonathan as a monster, so he can freely able to get rid of him without
his guest knowing. Before Dracula can get rid of him, his daughter and
his guests find Jonathan as the life of the party, and very friendly to
the point, that Mavis starts to have feelings for him. Jonathan and
Mavis sub-plot relationship isn't as remotely as cheesy as Twilight.
The movie even has a scene taking a jab at the Twilight movie in it.
The movie is a lot of fun. There is a few sprinkling of potty humor,
but it's doesn't detracts from an otherwise fun ride. Full of
interesting-to-look-at characters and zany, hectic animation, it's a
feast for the eyes with enough jokes thrown in for the parents in the
audience, especially in Sandberg's character. The guest of the hotel
made out of Frankenstein (Kevin James), Wayne the Wolfman (Steve
Buscemi), Griffin the Invisible Man (David Spade) and Murray the Mummy
(Ceelo Green) are play their roles great and gives something new to
each of the old school monsters. The film is directed by Genndy
Tartakovsky well known for his work for Dexter's Laboratory, Powerpuff
Girls, and Samurai Jack. The computer animation is Pixar level. From
all the animation monster-related movies put out in 2012, this one was
worth the money paying. So check in to "Hotel Transylvania" to find
Adam Sandler and his pals playing the greatest monsters in movie
history.
