7
solid war drama

The assassination in Prague in 1942 of Reinhardt Heydrich - 'protector'
of Bohemia and Moravia and one of the planners of the 'final solution'
- was one of the most spectacular events of WWII. Although it did not
change dramatically the fate of the war, it had a strong impact on the
moral of both the German as well as the Czech and other nations
fighting on the allies side, proving that the Nazi occupiers were not
immortal and that punishment was to be inflicted on the heads of their
regime. It also led to savage reprisals that destroyed any hope of
cooperation between the German and the occupied Czech areas. 'The Man
with the Iron Heart' based on a novel by Laurent Binet and directed by
Cédric Jimenez carefully describes the main characters of this
historical drama as well as the events before and after the attack on
Heydrich.A few weeks ago I have seen 'The Zookeeper's Wife' which figured as
central character the wife of a Polish Resistance hero who helped him
in saving the lives of hundreds of Jews in occupied Poland. The first
half of 'The Man with the Iron Heart' had the chance to develop as a
'The Holocaust Planner Wife' with a description of the biography and
ascension to power of Reinhardt Heydrich, from an immoral officer in
the German navy to the highest ranks of the SS under the influence of
his wife. We are used to think positively about love stories, and this
is a love story of a different kind, the one between two mean people,
united by an ideology of hate, deeply corrupt despite the cultural
polish of their education and hobbies. This part of the story and the
film is supported by the splendid actor work of Rosamund Pike, with
Jason Clarke also giving a convincing performance as the hateful and
hated ReichProtektor. I liked less the 'punk' version of Himmler
created by Stephen Graham, it was supposed to be sarcastic, but hard to
laugh about such an horrific historic character. Over all this part of
the film is the best in my opinion, and maybe would have deserved to be
developed more. The authors of the script however decided to cut the
action in the middle and focus in the second part on the resistance
fighters who prepared and executed the assassination, the consequences
of their deeds and their fatal fate. It was not bad, but closer to the
beaten paths.Events of WWII like this one seem to continue to be a source of
inspiration for film makers - best proof is that 'The Man with the Iron
Heart' is released less than one year away from 'Anthropoid'. Each
brings a different perspective, and some of them succeed in creating
solid stories, with heroes we care about (sympathize or hate). It's the
case of this film as well, a film that I recommend.
