10
Nolan's Perilous Masterpiece That Never Lets Up!

Christopher Nolan. That name alone has the star-power of an acting
giant. A name that once heard, turns the heads of an audience, whether
it be a superhero movie, a science fiction epic... or a war drama, a
typical moviegoer (even those less cinema-savvy or those who lack the
traits of a "cinephile") will instantly be attracted to his movie at
hand. We saw this with 'Inception', we saw this with 'Interstellar',
and now we're seeing this with 'Dunkirk'. And my God, what a film it
is. No film is truly flawless, but if a war film comes close to it,
it's Nolan's new epic that does so.We've seen the tale of Dunkirk undertaken several times on screen
before, whether back in the 1950's or during that stunning and sweeping
shot in 'Atonement', but none have come close to the realism, the
grittiness and the intensity that 'Dunkirk' bestows upon the audience.
The tale of a retreat that was seen as heroism, wait what? Yes, you
read that right, the retreat at Dunkirk became one of World War II's
greatest tales of heroism in the face of adversity. How Churchill had
asked to ensure that at least 30,000 troops made it home... that number
instead came in at a steady 300,000, and not just British soldiers.
French, Belgians and some Dutch, it was a tale of spectacle that truly
required an honest account from an auteur capable of bravura
direction... well that auteur is Nolan.We're all now used to Nolan's use of non-linear storytelling, and once
again he utilises his famed formula to stunning effect, with three
stories, each from the land, sea and air, all focusing on a different
time frame, but effectively intersecting throughout. Our three heroes
are newcomer Fionn Whitehead (land), Mark Rylance (sea) and Tom Hardy
(air), each providing near-flawless performances. Lacking of actual
dialogue, the sequences instead thrust the audience into a world of
visual splendour and build the narrative through the use of sound and
peril, the haunting and deafening sounds of diving Stukas, the ripping
roar of the Spitfire's engine and the sudden silence, building to
impending doom. The sound is this film's highlight, with Hans Zimmer
returning once more to unleash yet another stunning score. Now, the
cinematography, well what can I say? Hoyte Van Hoytema, take a bow, the
imagery is both stark yet beautiful, its gritty yet serene, its
claustrophobic yet sweeping... it's utterly encapsulating, from the
opening shot, it draws you in, it takes you to that beach, it places
you in the thick of it, and all the while avoiding the sight of the
actual enemy in person, they're just lingering, unseen to the naked
eye.One side note that I'd love to delve into is Harry Styles, wow what a
shocking achievement. Alike Heath Ledger as The Joker, Nolan has turned
an unlikely cast member into someone of true talent.In the 17 years of cinema-going during my life, I have seen some truly
amazing movies, some that completely stunned me, many of which have
been by the director at hand, including a fantastic IMAX experience of
'Interstellar', but never before have I left the cinema so awestruck,
so silenced by the intensity of a movie. 'Dunkirk' isn't a typical
movie, it isn't your typical war movie, this is more, much more. This
is a film about the prevalence of heroism, the prevalence of
Britishness, and how fear can strike drive and willpower into a human
entity. This is a visual masterpiece, it is more than a movie, it's an
experience, and one that should be witnessed by all!
