1
Convoluted Nonsensical Garbage

This movie should be called Starwars 3.9, A Convoluted Plot involving
the Deathstar.Here is the plot so you don't have to waste your money: The Deathstar
project manager, clueless as ever, decides to employ a man as chief
architect of the Deathstar despite knowing that he ardently against it
and despite the fact they he just had his wife brutally killed in front
of him.So in the first 10 minutes we are given the premise 1) That Darth Vader
would be happy about a potential saboteur designing the Deathstar 2)
That this guy is the only person capable of building the Deathstar in
the entire universe 3) That anyone in the Empire would believe this guy
had had a change of mind after his wife had been brutally killed.Fast forward a decade or two and we have an hour of irrelevant story
involving Jyn and some rebel dude, who I have to say kills more people
than Darth Vader. They all run around meeting (and often killing)
irrelevant people, Forest Whitaker. They plot to kill Jyn's father, who
we all know isn't really evil, but none of the characters know that.
Since the Deathstar is already fully functional, the only purpose for
this seems to be a good old revenge killing. It's nice of the rebels to
leave Darth Vader alone.After they achieve their goal, and with his croaky dying breath, Jyn's
father reveals to Jyn that he only agreed to build the Deathstar so he
could engineer in a secret weakness - because if he hadn't built it,
someone else would have ... which destroys the entire premise (see
above).However, his secret engineered weakness is so secret that he decided
not to tell anyone, and instead was relying on some rebels turning up
so he could tell them before they killed him - the rebels do a lot of
that. It was just luckily that he was only mostly dead and got to tell
them before he was completely dead.Unfortunately, since Jyn was the only person to hear this croaky
confession, no one will believe her. So she and a small group, the
rebel rebels, head off to find the proof from planet archive. Meanwhile
Peter Cushing has returned from the dead to do some acting that Keanu
Reeves would be proud of thanks to CGI.There is a big battle, they get the plans, no one cares because both
sides seem as murderous as each other, Jyn and rebel dude kiss,
everyone is killed, and Pricess Leah flies off with a Wifi version of
the Deathstar plans. The end. And we don't even get any of the original
Starwars music to enjoy.Whoever wrote the story to this utterly boring film should be sacked!
