7
I thought this movie was fascinating

"This is different. I've never had a muse before. I don't remember
painting this. It's like it's, it's like somethin'.. It flowed through
me."I won't beat around the bush. I thought "The Devil's Candy" was
unparalleled. And not because of the demonic story itself. But because
of the appearance of Jesse Hellman (Ethan Embry). A true metal-head who
throws himself, stripped to the waist, on a canvas cloth with spray
cans during the night. A prehistoric looking guy with lank greasy hair,
gleaming because of his with oil smeared muscles. He tries to put the
energy he receives from listening to squealing and howling guitars into
his artworks. In a way he reminded me of Rob Zombie. The day the family
Hellman (appropriate name!) decides to move into a sweet-looking little
house somewhere in Texas, Jesse doesn't realize that the dark forces
that are present there, will inspire him in a very different way.It's never really frightening so to speak. No paranormal events or
sudden jump-scares that'll spook you. The eerie part is developed in a
more subtle way here. The demonic character of a former resident who's
either possessed by satanic forces or simply mentally disturbed, is the
thing that makes for some scary and eerie moments. I'm talking about
Ray (Pruitt Taylor Vince). A somewhat fuzzy and labile-like person. Not
long after the Hellemans moved, this retarded person shows up at the
door and claims that he needs to return to his former home, so he can
produce a deafening sound on his red Gibson Flying V again. Noise he
needs to produce in order not to hear those adjuring voices. Voices
that incite him to perform disgusting acts.Although it's a horror, it's not really bloody. You can imagine what
dreadful murders are happening. And at some point when Jesse is
painting again, you'll see fragments of red paint mixed with seemingly
bloody fragments. But it's never explicitly shown. There are moments
when you can feel the helplessness of a future victim. The
powerlessness and the realization what's waiting for them, provide an
uncomfortable feeling. Ultimately, you can ask yourself the question
whether it's really Satan who's ordering Ray. Or is he just a mentally
disturbed person who hears voices and is guided by them. More or less
it's explained a bit by the preacher in a religious television program.
Satan isn't only that metaphysical character with horns and a pointed
tail. It's not only that mask that's being worn at Halloween or the
character you'll see in a movie. It's an aggressive anti-Christ who
lives among us and uses us to carry out his unspeakable deeds. In a
less religious context it simply means the evil that proliferates in
humans.The story isn't very original, but the undertone of the film is
fascinating. The fact that the film is filled up with brutal metal
sound, creates of course an extra satanic dimension. Personally I still
think it's absolutely ridiculous, but the association of Satan with
metal is never far away. Well, probably there still are some blockheads
who think that Ray's actions are a result of listening to heavy metal.
Ultimately, the film balances between a psychic, demonic story, and the
story of a serial killer who's guided by an evil influence. I thought
it was fascinating enough anyway!More reviews here : http://bit.ly/1KIdQMT
