5
Disappointing and Predictable Story

The geneticist Bertrand Zobrist (Ben Foster) is hunted down by three
men and commits suicide from the top of a tower in Florence. Zobrist
believes that the Earth's population that has an exponential growth
should be reduced in 50% to save the other 50%. In Florence, Professor
Robert Langdon (Tom Hanks) awakens in a hospital with no memory of the
last two days and with daydreams and dreadful visions. Dr. Sienna
Brooks (Felicity Jones) explains that he has a head trauma cause by a
bullet that scratched his head and he would recover his memory in a few
days. Out of the blue, a doctor tells that the police wants to
interrogate him and a police officer, who is indeed the killer Vayentha
(Ana Ularu), shoots the doctor but Sienna and Langdon succeeds to
escape to her apartment. Langdon finds a Faraday pointer in the pocket
of his jacket and when they project the image, they see the Map of
Dante's Inferno by Sandro Botticelli. They contact the American
Consulate but give the wrong address nearby the apartment. Soon the
area is under siege of the World Health Organization (WHO) agents and
the local police, including Vayentha, and Langdon and Sienna conclude
that Zobrist has created a virus to annihilate the world's population.
But who can be trusted?"Inferno" completes the trilogy of Dan Brown based on the adventures of
Professor Robert Langdon with a totally disappointing and predictable
story. The screenplay is a mess and the camera work and edition are
awful. Robert Langdon is a superman since he is wounded and with
amnesia, but capable of run, jump over the walls, recalls details such
as hidden passages and door in different locations etc. The plot point
with Sienna Brooks is totally predictable and it was obvious that she
had teamed up with Langdon to find where the virus is. The romance
between Langdon and Elizabeth Sinskey, performed by the unknown Sidse
Babett Knudsen, has no chemistry. In the end, "Inferno" is absolutely
forgettable. My vote is five.Title (Brazil): "Inferno"
