9
Great Action Movie!

Wow, this is one of the best action movies that I have seen in quite
some time. It is really what I was hoping for in a good old fashion
action movie that was done entirely on hand to hand combat and gun
shootings. This is a wonderful kick-ass movie where the killings were
done so brutally with lots of bloody scenes. It also kind of remind me
of the various one man army movies in the 80s played by Sylvester
Stallone or Arnold Schwarzenegger. If you have seen John Wick the
original (which I hope you have seen it before you see this one), then
you will be amazed with this sequel. It was bloodier, more fighting,
more assassins trying to kill John and longer running time. What I can
say is this is an even better version than the original movie. Although
in term of story, there is a bit of a more complexity in the sequel as
opposed to the simplicity of the original movie.All the fighting scenes were choreographed wonderfully according to my
opinion. The guns shooting scenes were entirely cool. I loved all of
them and there were no fighting scenes that took too long to finish.
Keanu Reeves' portrayal of a retired hit-man who had no choice but to
come back was really spot on. There were also some minor characters
from the original movie who appeared in this sequel and also new
character played by Laurence Fishburne whom I believed would play a
large part in chapter 3. Yes, there would definitely be another sequel
based on the ending of this movie, which really made me so excited and
cannot wait for it to be released.Aside from the very cool amazing action sequence, the sound effects of
this movie was very good such as the sound of cars screeching, guns
blazing and the voices of John and Cassian's heavy fight which I
thought sounded very original. My recommendation if you want to watch
this movie, it should be watched in a theater with good sound system. Since there were many bloody brutal killing scenes (including 1 suicide
scene), the Indonesian censorship body had given 21 years above rating.
So yeah, this movie is definitely not for kids. For those of you who
want to enjoy a pure action movie with Keanu Reeves as the main star,
this one should not be missed. Don't forget to watch the original movie
first so you would understand the story line. But for those who do not
really enjoy this kind of movie (or cannot stand the bloody fight
scenes), then this might not be suitable for you. This is one heck of a movie and I for one truly enjoyed it and would
recommend this movie to any fans of action movie.for my complete review, pls see michaelnontonmulu.blogspot.co.id
