8
Undeniably disturbing and unapologetically cynical, yet surprisingly funny.

When we first meet Louis Bloom (Jake Gyllenhaal), he's cutting sections
of chain-link fence from a construction site to sell for scrap. It's
not exactly the ideal way to make a living, and Bloom certainly aspires
to greater things - he even lobbies unsuccessfully for a job at the
scrapyard, but the manager isn't keen on hiring thieves. But while
driving home, Bloom comes across an auto accident, with emergency
personnel working frantically to free a woman trapped in the wreckage
while the entire scene is being filmed by an independent cameraman
(Bill Paxton) hoping to sell the footage to a local news station.Something about this profession strikes a chord with Louis, and it
doesn't take long before he's armed himself with a shoddy police
scanner and a cheap camcorder, trying to get his feet wet in his newly
adopted vocation. Louis quickly learns that the veterans don't take
kindly to newcomers, and they're not about to share any tricks of the
trade, but Louis's lack of experience is more than balanced out by his
cunning and ingenuity. In one early scene, as late night news director
Nina (Rene Russo) tells him that she already has footage from the same
incident he recorded, Louis smiles warmly and informs her that he was
closer to the subject, with a better angle - but he's not trying to
bargain with her, he's just merely passing along information, with just
the right amount of aloofness to pique her interest.With her station struggling desperately for ratings, Nina strikes up a
deal with Louis, giving her first option on whatever footage he
captures from his late-night escapades. The relationship bears fruit
quickly, with the station boasting a steady string of high-rated
scoops, and Louis trading in his beat-up hatchback and low-grade
equipment for a Dodge Charger and a GPS-enabled police scanner complete
with a touchscreen interface. He also acquires the services of Rick, a
homeless "intern" that assists with navigation and operating the second
camera in exchange for a paltry thirty bucks per night, and Louis's
constant promises of developing his skills to further his "career."As Louis continues to outrun and outsmart his fellow nightcrawlers, he
comes obsessed with recognition, and the power that comes from it. He
demands that the name of his "news company" be read by the morning
anchors anytime his footage is shown, he insists that he be introduced
to the TV station executives and credited with Nina's ongoing success,
and he subtly threatens to offer his footage to rival news outlets
unless Nina yields to his romantic advances. And he does all of these
things, and plenty more, with a frighteningly genial disposition, his
face always lit up with a cheerful grin.While roles in Enemy and Prisoners afforded Gyllenhaal the opportunity
to play characters that inhabit some dark spaces, there's something
even more compelling about watching him disappear into the mind of a
complete sociopath. No matter what deplorable and horrific action Louis
takes over the course of Nightcrawler's two- hour running time, he
never shows the slightest hint of guilt or remorse, remaining
singularly focused on achieving his goals at any cost. Combined with
Gyllenhaal's dramatic physical change - he lost over 20 pounds for the
role, with his hollowed eyes and gaunt appearance adding to the
creepiness - it's a fascinating performance, and among the actor's best
work to date.Undeniably disturbing and unapologetically cynical, Nightcrawler is
also an acerbic derision of what passes for "journalism" in today's
society, where actually reporting the news has become far less
important than providing ghastly imagery for the public to devour en
masse. One of the film's best sequences plays with this very idea, as
the stomach-churning choices that Louis makes after arriving at the
scene of a home invasion are justified when Nina agrees to the
exorbitant price he places on the footage. The exchange borders on
outrageous, and yet we can't help but wonder how authentic it might be.
After all, as Paxton's character says wisely, "If it bleeds, it leads."
