6
Gets better after 20 minutes, tries to be different

Firstly, the film has a slow start. We see almost motion comic footage
of Hercules doing his 12 labours in slideshow form, with Hercules face
hidden in silhouette. So I felt a little cheated. Then we have a scene
which tries to set up what makes this version of the main character
different than any other version we have seen before. I wont give it
away, as its basically what the film is about. But it tries to play
with our knowledge of him. It doesn't ignore the back story of his wife and kids, but glosses over
those parts until it becomes necessary to divulge that information.
Again, i think it would have been better to see it, rather than be told
what happened. I knew his history and so was wondering if they would
portray this properly. Instead they do something to set-up a villain
for the end which I wont give away. Just know that they do tie up all
lose ends as needed, but a prior knowledge of who this character is and
what he has done does help the viewer understand his motivations and
his life up to this point.Its when the big war starts that you really sit up and start paying
attention. Somehow watching the Rock talk doesn't interest you, but
when the fighting starts with the epic 200 people battle sequences, you
suddenly see where the budget went, the fights are fantastic!What is really great is how Hercules and his band of merry men (and
woman) use smarts to outwit the enemy rather than simply use strength
each time. That was clever. From the moment of that first fight the
film moves up a notch and becomes excellent entertainment. Its a historical film and tries to be serious about its overall
message. Dwayne does a good job but he's not going to win any awards
for this. The other cast members actions are predictable and
sufficient. But don't really add much to the plot. They could have been
written out and it would have changed nothing. The running length is long enough to feel satisfied and not so long
that it overstays its welcome. The plot twists you see coming a mile
away but at least it tries to do them. Other than one characters
actions near the end which was so obvious it was stupid to include.In conclusion, its worth watching. It takes it times to grab you, but
once it does it doesn't let go. There are a few stretches of how strong
Hercules is, but not enough for you to hate it. The 3D has its moments,
but like most films I would rather have watched it in 2D as I don't
think it made a major difference and its more comfortable not having to
wear those glasses with my head upright the entire time.
