9
Laugh Value, Character Value, Music Value.

I saw the trailer for this movie last Summer and the first thing I said
was "I have to go see this movie." So, needless to say I've been
looking forward to this film since last summer and I had very high
expectations for it. I am pleased to say it went above and beyond and
met these expectations, I absolutely adored this movie and would
recommend it to anybody of any age. First things first is starting from the beginning and the introduction
of the characters and I thought Illumination Entertainment did a
fantastic job in presenting each individual. As an audience we knew
after the first ten minutes who each character was, their relationships
with each other, and the individual personalities. For an animation
film I was really pleased with this because you normally don't get that
character depth in the beginning and sometimes you never get it in the
film. As the story went on the characters developed at an individual
level as well as a relationship level with others which added to the
plot line drastically. Not to mention the actors and actresses who
portrayed each character were spot on with the voices. However, the icing on the cake for the entire film for me was the
soundtrack. The soundtrack is very important because it not only sets
the pace for the film on screen but it also changes your emotions and
tells you when you need to be sad, scared, happy, etc. That is exactly
what this soundtrack did and it pleased me because without that human
interaction happening on the screen, because it was animated, the music
filled that gap and allowed your emotions to change. One problem I did have with the movie, and this was more towards the
end, was the humor. The humor made me laugh in the beginning quite a
bit but by the end of the movie the humor was starting to become more
outrageous. Almost as if they were trying to hard to make it funny. Now
even though this humor was changing a bit as the film went on it was
not enough for me not to suggest seeing this movie for its laugh value. Overall, if you have a family, kids, husband, or just want to see this
movie with friends I would definitely recommend. You'll laugh, you'll
cry a little bit, but most importantly you will leave the theater
happy.
