2
Another "nothing" movie

Another X-Men movie.. and again, not much of anything happens. There is
a plot, yes, but it is poorly written and lacks substance/soul/meaning.
The attitude of "I don't care" is what I came out with after seeing
this movie. Instead of having a soul, it feels like a bunch of things
put together in order to make money. You see characters, but aside from
Quicksilver, which felt shoved in, no one really has an attempt at an
arc.--- SPOILERS!!An hour into the movie, it SEEMS like something will happen. Two hours
into the movie, they end the threat of Apocalypse. The end. Apocalypse
wasted. I have several other issues with this movie, 1) Nightcrawler's
teleportation is stopped by electricity? 2) Apocalypse access the
internet by touching a TV. Yes yes, it is not the internet, but it is
such a concept. Anyway, Apocalypse learns all the languages this way
and sees the atrocities of humanity. What kind of powers did he have?
He came from the beginning of mankind, and then jumps to the "present"
where he magically has a mutant power that lets him access
"technology". Anyway, awful! Reading minds would have been better. 3)
The Angel transformation scene is simply stupid.. rock music, alcohol,
a cool pose.. Apocalypse's way of "convincing" others into joining him
is as bad. He says "come with me" and that's it. What does he want? To
kill all! Sure, I'll join. 4) Apocalypsis takes Magneto to his
conncentration camp (which is intact after who knows how many years)
and somehow knows about Magneto's past for some reason. Knows his name,
knows how he feels. 5) X-Men insults the Star Wars trilogy, calling the
third (Return of the Jedi) as the worst one. Why? 6) Oh yes, Magneto
lost everything, again. For some reason, he hasn't learned his lesson,
and continues to hang out with women and have children. Then they get
killed and he blames everyone! 7) Stan Lee's cameo is.. nothing. Him
looking at the sky as a civilian. 8) Somehow, aside from being somewhat
telepathic, or so I understood, Apocalypsis can also teleport for some
reason. But then he states he needs Xavier's powers! So, which is it?
Do you have all powers or don't? If you can do most of what it is shown
you can do, why do you need 4 horsemen, or other mutants? 9)
Quicksilver's scene, while awesome, is super coincidental. No reason
why he should have saved everyone from an exploding mansion. He isn't
in super speed 100% of the time! Nor he knows the place is exploding!
Yet he walks right to the center of the mansion and sees and rescues
everyone. Ugh. 10) So, a "psychic event" destroyed all the world's
nukes, and Colonel Stryker tracked the source to Xavier's mansion....
suuuuure. 11) Wolverine shows up and kills people, retconing his
origin. He then runs in the snow. Fine. There is no real "Berserker
Rage". Anyway, sucks and unnecessary. 12) Psylocke uses a whip to
fight, instead of her psyonich blades. 13) Magneto goes
all-out-destructive with little reason.. but wait, he becomes good with
even less. 14) Mystique turns into Psylocke and for some reason she has
a blade. It was a "twist", if you can call it that. This scene, where
she attempted to kill Apocalypse is the closes the writer could come
close to a surprise situation. 15) Apocalypse turns big, yes, in a mind
sequence. Looks bad by the way. Apocalypse does little to no shifting
actions. He remains as seen in the pictures. 16) Quicksilver DOESN'T
tell Magneto he is his father. The reason? There isn't one.They said Lawrence didn't do much in the movie, that it was the kids
that did.. but ultimately, nobody really does anything. The fights are
not even 2% of the movie, it's mostly talk (some bad lines, nothing
mind bending). Mutants underused, which is the biggest let down. The
movie is a lot of nothing! Oh, and the X-men have Sentinels now, for
some reason.. Lots of stuff, lots of nothing. Not even a good waste of
time.
