6
Implores a second viewing

'The Blackcoat's Daughter' is a dark and brooding suspense about two
pretty but very different teenage girls left behind at a religious
boarding school during a winter break. The eldest girl has devised to
stay behind and has made plans to visit her boyfriend. The younger,
more reserved girl seems anxious, and grows distraught about her
dilemma. Our third lead character is a mysterious and troubled young
woman (Emma Roberts) who has fled from a psychiatric institution and is
making passage towards the school. She's helped by a concerned
middle-aged couple.The film cuts erratically from girl to girl, to the girls together with
the two remaining staff members, and to the traveling young woman.
Interwoven with these cuts are some brief and confusing flashbacks. All
hell begins to fly loose and the audience is tasked to make sense of
it. This is fun for some, but frustrating for others.The tempo is mostly slow and the mood is dreary, but it's not tedious
to watch. The sound effects and track were way over the top and became
a distraction. I'm convinced that a blind person could piece things
together just with the sound and a basic description of the scenes and
characters. The set and costumes were unremarkable and lent nothing...
a solid D. The acting was largely convincing and our three leading
ladies did very well, B+ or better. Those who appreciate thoughtful suspense that presents the audience
with a puzzle with minor twists, then you'll certainly enjoy this. It's
for this reason that I strongly advise viewers NOT to read any reviews
that contain spoilers or an extended synopsis, nor seek out trailers or
clips. This is a good date or bestie movie for those who can enjoy a
macabre suspense. It allows plenty of conversational material during
and following.There are some moderate horror elements to the movie, increasingly so
towards the end. These elements won't repel those who don't normally
enjoy horror flicks nor fulfill the explicit horror fans.
