6
Not as Appetizing as it Seems

This movie definitely oversells itself. From the rumors of overwhelmed
audience members passing out, to the promotional barf bags being doled
out at the screening, Raw can't help but prime you for a big bloody
letdown. I scare easily, so truth be told, I was shaking in my boots
before the promotions guy started butchering the stars' names and
joking that we'd all enjoy a steak dinner afterwards. That comment
ended up being cheeky in more ways than one.None of this is the movie's fault (the overtly candid title
notwithstanding). Raw does come with early promise, as exemplified by
the fact that nearly the entire film takes place in a veterinary
hospital with an alarmingly lax attitude towards hazing. No matter how
humdrum a scene becomes, there's always the possibility of something
furry and four-legged being cut open to get you writhing in your seat.
It's gross; those unaccustomed will no doubt be shocked. But it never
reaches apex sensationalism.Part of the problem lies with the foundations of the story. Our
protagonist, the young, innocent and vegetarian Justine (Marillier)
gets plopped down in the middle of campus and is immediately swept up
in a montage of fraternal initiations and college ragers. Her black
sheep of an older sister (Rumpf) stays at arm's length and her roommate
Adrien (Oufella) isn't much of a help either. Thus she allows herself
one too many indulgences and gets lost in a downward spiral that would
put the goody-goody on your dorm room floor your freshman year to
shame. Because we've all seen the exact same kind of thing before, not
just in real life but in other films ad nausium, there's really no real
tension as far as the story is concerned. We know where all this is
going, the question is how far will it go.It goes about as far as you would expect, but does it all in a way that
at times feels too literate and at other times too literal. In one
scene our heroine is compelled to make out with a fellow freshman to
the approval of their gracious "elders". "Come out when you're both
green," says one senior who had just doused them in blue and yellow
paint and stuffed them into a dorm room bathroom. The color, the poppy
music, the very situation, just screams art house overkill. It forces
the audience to swim in a soup of hook-up excess masquerading as sex
positive messaging, and gets us all to feel self-satisfied when we pick
up on the films very clear themes.Other times the camera lingers on gaping wounds and savagely ripped
tendons for the sake of primal shocks. By the time we actually get to
those scenes however, half the audience is conked-out while the other
half is frustrated by the lack of I Drink Your Blood (1970)-level
lunacy. Raw only really finds its balance in one incredibly effective
scene: a scene in which the characterizations, thickly laid thematic
groundings and primal sensationalism all coalesce to bring new meaning
to the phrase nail-biting.Raw is ultimately an interesting failed experiment in genre-crossing.
It tries to take the gore-induced shocks of a very particular sub-genre
of horror and attempts to elevate it via art house trappings and
pseudo-feminist sensibilities. I admire the attempt, and I understand
its zeal in the midst of successes like A Girl Walks Home Alone at
Night (2014) and The Witch (2015). Yet as far as having its Chianti and
drinking it too, I really think the farthest this sub-genre can stretch
is Cannibal! The Musical (1993).
