2
Multi-level-rape

How could the paramount of Japanese culture be raped so viciously and
repetitively? How could such a strong story be lost in a heap of
self-serving non-sense, elementary school level dialogue, non- existent
romance, handicaped action, unimportant, uninteresting, underdeveloped
characters and so on?Well it's always a bad sign when you have character placed on a poster
and he then makes a four-second appearance, not to be seen ever
again(*cough* dude with facial tattoo). It is also a bad sign to start
a movie with "google earth like" introduction, showing that you have
literally zero information on the subject. But lets be fair and take if from the top. Let's take a peek at our
cartboard cut-out characters. Kai, half-breed with obviously
dysfunctional vocal chords is living with lord of Stereotypia, Asano,
since childhood and will be pushed throughout the movie as a pivotal
point in the conflict. That being said, there are certain heroes in
action/adventure filmography, that don't really persuade you with their
actions, but at least they provide interesting backstory that keeps you
invested. Well, Kai amazingly does neither. Keanu Reeves brings out the
best of his athrophied facial muscles and mumbles his way to the
credits, with audience feeling absolutely nothing for his character or
romance. This element of love and chemistry between him and daughter of
Asano is as easy to watch as to observe someone trying to extract glass
bottle from his anus with a metal hook... It is equally painful to
watch, as this wedding-video/commercial director tries to communicate
Kai's pain on unsuspecting audience. All this accompanied by Japanese
actors struggling with English(yes, you guessed it, the movie about
Japanese history is in heavy accented English). And it is not just the
pronunciation, but the pacing and dramatic moments as well that keep
the magic of immersion more distant than Christmas day in January. Just
imagine a foreigner trying to console you in your mother language,
after your loved one died. It just doesn't work ... You'd be looking at
him all confused and uncomfortable. It's same with the movie, except on
screen they would give you an occasional Japanese word and then
awkwardly try to translate and explain it in a same sentence. It goes
for all the supporting cast and it is especially painful in case of
evil lord's helper - the witch. Over the top, devoided of purpose and
just all-out badly written ... if they'd put on a giant middle finger
every time she appeared on screen I'd certainly be less insulted, just
because I'd find it funny.You have to suffer quite a lot of pathetic build-up and looot of
exposure to be hit by another of movies' "highlights". Everybody in
this movie would not survive a minute in the real world, if their
brains functioned like that. Meaning? ... Well, why not start with: If
you do not want your enemies to crash your wedding, do not ( I repeat,
DO NOT! ) let them out of the cave (you left them in after killing
their master) right before your big day.It would be pain to continue naming all the dumb and inexplicable stuff
this movie presented(you can name like 2-3 things for each character
without even thinking...). There are moments when movie tries to stick
to original story, but they are exactly the examples of when it should
not to. According to original story, Oishi divorced his wife, but it
was only to support his drunkard 'n' whoring lifestyle he took up to
convince everyone he'd let go the idea of revenge. Sounds logical?
Actually, yes. It was all plan that'd been in play for two years!! They
tediously gathered weapons, intel, housing plans and were playing the
roles of fallen samurai for two long years! Makes sense? Well yeah, it
does, because they needed Kira, the bad guy, to let his guard down.And what does the movie offer?? Oishi is released, finds Kai, who is
still alive (because screenplay demands it ... even though it doesn't
address the fact that he kinda forgot his love interest) and rallies
ronin who had no idea what to do for a whole year. Then there's this
ridiculous quest for weapons, which introduces us to Kai's past, even
though we don't give a flying f*ck about it by now. They get magical
swords which are not really that magical and rush in numbers to Kira's
stronghold. Couple of them die on a first try (fat guy dies and we are
supposed to be sad I guess...), then attack again during the wedding.
Kira dies, witch dies, guards die and so does the last hope for a good
action in this movie. Director tortures us for a little while before
ronin commit suicide, leaving me sad, insulted and confused.Sad for Hiroyuki Sanada, whom I like as an actor. Insulted by
everything I paid to witness. Confused to hear words of praise from a
seat above me.
