3
Don't bet on it...

Until a friend suggested going to see this movie, I hadn't even heard
of it, and other than what I gathered from skimming the synopsis in the
cinema-foyer listings-leaflet -it seemed to be some kind of comedy, and
starred Bruce Willis as a gambler-, I wasn't sure what it was about.And now, after sitting through all ninety-four incoherent, enervating
minutes of it, I'm still not sure. One of my friends, who is usually
uncritical and easily entertained, said he thought that "The Tree of
Life" made more sense than this film.Unlike Terrence Malick's "metaphysical masterpiece" however, there is
no confusion here as to what the subject matter is (it's the life of
professional gamblers), what is confusing is how that subject matter is
presented, and how the narrative is (or isn't) constructed around it.
For example, what was the intended tone of the movie, what was the
film-maker trying to convey? Was it supposed to be amusing?
entertaining? or moving? were we supposed to be excited, or to feel
intellectually stimulated? Who knows. My main emotional reaction to the
film was a kind of repulsion, because I felt like I was being
exploited, like the film was insulting my intelligence and my basic
humanity. Like I might expect to feel if I'd been suckered into
spending an evening feeding coins to a slot machine.The first 10 minutes were slightly amusing to be fair, but after that
that it just descends into complete mind-numbing absurdity. You might
think Vince Vaughn would offer some comic-relief but, for the brief
appearances he makes, he's just going through the motions (though it's
still the most convincing and consistent performance of the movie). There was no tension, or intrigue, at all, for the first seventy
minutes. I mean nothing seems to really matter to any of the
characters, they behave so unrealistically, and incoherently. And when
things finally seem to get real and there is some adversity for the
characters to face, you just don't care because you can't feel sympathy
for such pantomime puppets as these. They could have gone more into the details, the mechanics, of the
gambling operation, that might have been interesting, but they thought
it would be better to pad the story out with completely vapid
romantic-interest scenes.Maybe, with the attraction of Willis, Zeta-Jones, Vaughn, (and Rebecca
Hall's legs), it was thought that such things as humour, narrative
direction, consistency and pacing, character development, etc., were
unnecessary. After seeing the movie, I learned that it was adapted from a book, that
at least goes some way towards explaining why there were so many
undeveloped, seemingly irrelevant details, obviously included for the
sake of those that have read it. For example, Holly (Laura Pripon's
character) keeps warning Beth that she is becoming "one of us", in the
book there might be context for this but when you watch the film you're
just like "what is this I don't even...."But, even for those that have read the book, maybe more-so, this film
will only bemuse and bewilder. While I'm informed the book was written
in a 'picaresque' -and no doubt droll (not to mention self-deprecating)
style-, on screen, without the benefit of a narrator, this translates
into characters, like Beth, who starts off as some kind of
cartoon-airhead-bimbo-stripper, sunbathing with baby-oil on her back,
ending up as an extraordinarily articulate, mathematical genius, who
goes on to become a writer... Rebecca Hall was a bad choice.And another thing, I couldn't help feeling that this film was
not-too-subtly trying to indoctrinate me. Maybe I'm just paranoid but,
beyond just the obvious product placements (nice Mercedes being driven
by Bruce Willis' Mr. Nice character), it's like they're glamorizing the
lifestyle, and completely glossing over any moral issues, and Beth just
follows the money from Las Vegas to New York to Curaçao -are we
supposed to admire that, to forget about community, and meaningful
relationships, just go where the money is and keep working and
consuming?-.Whatever, I've wasted enough time on this drivel already, please heed
my warning and don't waste yours.
