4
Quite amusing in parts but I have seen better! 4/10

Review: This is a mediocre comedy, which does have a couple of funny
moments but it did seem more silly than funny. The movie is based
around 3 best friends, Ethan (Joseph Gordon- Levitt), Issac (Seth
Rogen) and Chris (Anthony Mackie), who are spending there last
Christmas night together, before Issac's wife, Betsy (Jillian Bell) has
a baby. Ever since Ethan lost his parents at Christmas, due to a car
crash, the 3 friends have made it a ritual to be together on Christmas
night, and they have tried to get an invitation to the exclusive
undercover club, the Nurcracka Ball but they have never succeeded.
While Ethan is working in the cloak room of a club, he sees 3 tickets
to the ball in someone's pocket, so he steals them so he and his
friends can finally get to go to the ball. Meanwhile, Ethan has broken
up with his girlfriend, Diana (Lizzy Caplan), because of commitment
issues and Chris has become an sports star and Ethan is determined to
win back Diana's heart. Before they set out on there magnificent last
adventure, Betsy gives Issac a box of drugs so he can have the perfect
night out but he goes completely overboard and he doesn't know if he is
coming or going. Once they set out on the last voyage, it just goes
from bad to worse but they remain close friends, even though they end
up on separate missions at one point of the night. The acting was what
was expected from Mackie, Rogen and Joseph and the director does push
the barriers with religion and sexual innuendos. Michael Shannon (Mr.
Green) was brilliant as the drug dealing elf and I enjoyed the Run DMC
tribute but it's not in the same league as movies like the Hangover.
Watchable!Round-Up: This movie was written and directed by Jonathan Levin, who
brought you 50/50, which also starred Seth Rogen and Gordon-Levitt,
Warm Bodies and the Wackness, so he hasn't got loads of experience
behind the camera. The scale of this movie is pretty big and you can
definitely see were the budget went but it still lacked originality and
Seth Rogen seemed to be the only one, out of the three, that was
bringing the comedic aspect to the film. I enjoyed the old school Hip
Hop throughout the movie and those traditional jumpers did make me
laugh, and the girl who played the grinch type character, Rebecca
(Ilana Glazer), was completely nuts but there wasn't any moments that
will stick in my mind. Its still a watchable movie which will make you
laugh in parts but I have seen better.Budget: $25million Worldwide Gross: $52.3millionI recommend this movie to people who are into their comedies starring
Seth Rogen, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Anthony Mackie, Jillian Bell, Michael
Shannon, Tracy Morgan, James Franco and Miley Cyrus. 4/10
