7
A Different Side of Abraham Lincoln

When I discovered this movie, skepticism washed over me. I mean,
Abraham Lincoln as a vampire hunter? Having one of the greatest
presidents of all time as the character of a vampire hunter would be
the last thing anyone would expect. When I entered the theater, my
initial thought was that this movie would bring me disappointment. But
it turned out to be much better than expected and a fun film filled
with lots of violence, blood, gore, and vampire decapitations.So, in the film adaptation of Seth Grahame-Smith's fantasy novel,
Abraham Lincoln is a vampire hunter. But before he becomes that, he's
just an ordinary boy living in a world consumed by slavery. One night,
his mom died from an undiscovered disease and from then on, he's waited
and searched for his mom's killer, only to discover a new large world
of vampires. There he becomes a vampire hunter under the guidance of
Henry Sturges (who has a secret).However, his vampire hunting career reaches a hiatus in the middle of a
movie where Abraham is now interested in pursuing a career in politics.
In the end, he becomes the President of the United States, only to have
his career troubled by the devastating Civil War where vampires play a
part in it somehow. In the 20 or so minutes that focus on his
presidency, I felt there was an issue with it as it shifted the focus
of vampire hunting and focused on politics and the Civil War instead as
nothing about vampires was stated during this 20 minutes.The vampires are led by a leader named Adam. Although he might appear
to be the strongest, I felt that the vampire John Barts (killer of
Abraham's mother) was actually the main antagonist of the film and
represented a bigger threat. While Adam had a lengthy climax, the fight
with John Barts was much longer and was more personal as only the two
of them were involved and more engaging. The scene also displayed more
of the abilities possessed by a vampire.Talking about action scenes, they were all great and fantastic. They
were energetic, full of blood, full of gore, extremely violent, and
dead brutal. Most of them feature decapitations of the vampires and
anyone seeking brutality, deadliness, blood, gore, and violence should
be satisfied with the action scenes provided here. But what I noticed
in the action scenes, particularly the Lincoln-Barts fight and parts of
the climax, was that it was quite unclear. In the Lincoln-Barts fight,
the two were in a sandy place with many horses galloping. I felt that
there was too much sand flying around and the fight became unclear and
a bit brownish. This made it hard to see what was going on. It might
intentionally done like that to give it more of an old feeling but it
may also be a distraction because you don't know what's going on. The
same happened in parts of the climax but this time, smoke and sparks
caused it.The script was a bit uneven. While the second half of the film was a
bit better, I felt that the first half of the film was a bit lacking in
dialog. There was little talk and there was too many decapitations,
blood, and gore. I felt that the scenes progressed too fast and they
should have taken it more patiently. In fact, most of the talk in the
first part of the film comes from Abraham, due in part to the narration
of fragments of his diary. The others rarely talk and probably only
talk so little and it's only by the second half that they talk more.
However, the performances by the actors were okay, not too terrible to
burden the overall movie experience.I also felt there was a bit of a disaster with the make-up. Since the
time in the story spans from Abraham's early adulthood to his fifties,
we could clearly see a change in his facial appearance (a beard). We
can also see this change with Abraham's friend Joshua Speed. The same
cannot be said with Abraham's wife Mary Todd, and Abraham's other
friend Will Johnson. Mary Todd doesn't appear to change with the
exception of very few creases on her face whereas Will Johnson doesn't
have a change in appearance at all. His face is exactly the same his
hair didn't even turn white. However, the 3D was excellent. It takes you and makes you part of the
scenes and is recommended although some of the scenes would make the 3D
a nuisance. But other scenes where there is blood will be enhanced by
the 3D and some of the blood may even squirt out to your face. And the
visual effects! Oh they're such a wonder. But of course, impressive
visual effects and eye-catching stunts would be what you would expect
from a movie directed by Timur Bekmambetov.Overall, "Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter" is a film that offers
moviegoers a fun time with plenty of bloody and gory action sequences
filled with eye-catching stunts, impressive visual effects and
excellent 3D effects. Despite the interesting plot, the film is downed
by some poor unclear shots, an uneven script that mostly focused on
action, not on dialog, and poor make-up. Regardless, "Abraham Lincoln:
Vampire Hunter" is a movie you should see if you want a bloody fun
time.Rating: 7/10 Final Verdict: Despite the uneven script, some poor unclear shots, and
poor make-up, "Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter" promises moviegoers a
bloody fun time with gory action scenes, eye-catching stunts,
impressive visual effects, and excellent 3D effects with an interesting
and somehow peculiar plot line.
