9
As MUST SEE as it gets, a different kind of "crime" film

I discovered this subtitled Italian film randomly on Netflix late one
night. I liked the description, and recognized Pierfrancesco Favino,
actor in the Ron Howard films Angels & Demons and Rush, and thought I'd
give it a shot. I was mesmerized for the next two plus hours. And in
the next couple weeks, had watched the movie 4 times. I'll probably
watch it again soon. This film is that good.The surface story revolves around an aging but feared and respected
gangster named "Samurai" (cool name huh?) who, on behalf of the
"Southern Families", schemes to use the Vatican, Roman politicians and
other gangsters to turn the quiet beach town of Ostia into the "New Las
Vegas" - a project that could ultimately bring in billions. Worlds
collide during Samurai's quest, and no one gets out unscathed - not the
priests, politicians, pimps, party planners, prostitutes, gangsters, or
gunmen. Everyone involved in, even tangentially connected to, these
dirty deeds gets a comeuppance of some kind. And this is where we find
the substance of the film.Because this is really a story about dreams and nightmares - the dreams
the characters have, that because of their not so wise choices, become
nightmares they might not survive. The gangster Samurai (Claudio
Amendola) is old school. A quiet but imposing man, he has an old slash
scar across his throat. We can sense he's a "been there, done it all
type", a man "committed to the idea", as one character puts it. And if
he can make this idea of a "New Las Vegas" a reality, he'll finally be
able to retire once and for all.The politician Filippo Malgradi (Favino) is another dreamer. He dreams
that he can balance a double life, one as a well-respected, possibly
corrupt politician and family man, the other as a man of many vices,
including crack smoker and user of underage prostitutes. The latter,
unsurprisingly, gets him into much trouble, and leaves him exposed to
blackmail, which ultimately sets the tragedy of the story in motion.The young Ostia gangster, bald and bearded "Number 8" - so called
because the number 8 he has tattooed on the back of his skull
(portrayed with excellent menace and subtle insecurity by Alessandro
Borghi) dreams of being respected, of stepping out from his father's
shadow. His father licked the "rear ends" (politely put) of the
Southern Families, and 8 wants to do no such thing. But to avoid that,
he has to obtain all the property contracts for the Ostia waterfront,
by any means necessary. 8 has quite the chip on his shoulder, wanting
respect but not wanting to wait for it. He displays a subtle twitch
whenever challenged, whether its by a superior, such as Samurai, or an
inferior, such as the young gypsy gangster Dagger, who seeks to
blackmail politician Malgradi. 8 is completely capable of battering
someone into submission or stabbing them in the throat because of the
slightest insult, but incapable of sacrificing what it takes to achieve
his dreams - his ego. In this respect he might be the film's most
interesting, and tragic character. Much credit to the actor Borghi -
he's got a bright career ahead of him.The film's standout scene involves Number 8. At night he stands in his
lavish beach front house at a foggy window, pouring rain outside. His
girlfriend asleep behind him, we see him wrapped in his own world, a
sparkle in his eyes, as he traces a line across the window, and
describes the magnificence of what his "New Las Vegas" will be like -
the key to the respectability he so desperately desires. On the
opposite beach, we see the lights of this dream appear and brighten -
ambient dreamlike music accompanying it. It's a simple, but stylish,
almost fairy tale like scene. Soon, the lights begin to fade, as 8's
dream will soon fade. Inevitably 8's next scene is a nightmare, as he's
attacked in a mall where he's making a collection. The rest of the film
is a nightmare for each of its characters, as plans and dreams fall
apart, and the selfish, short-sighted decisions they've made, all come
back to haunt them.Top points go to the cinematography, which is at times gritty and
seedy, other times soft and flashy, but always fitting. Credit also to
the soundtrack. The group M83 makes multiple appearances. Some might
think the repeated use of this ambient-pop type music overbearing, and
even I did at first, but when I thought of it in the context that this
is a film about dreams and nightmares, I realized how superbly fitting
the music is.Not enough can be said about the acting - half the characters I don't
have time to get to, but they're all memorable, directing as well,
writing too - just when you think someone might survive, you're shown
just how silly you are. It's a superb film all around. To be followed
by a Netflix TV series in 2017. Except we'll be seeing plenty of new
faces, because as I said, dreams turn into nightmares for many
characters in the film...
