9
A Halloween Treat!

Saw this advertised on IMDb a while back & kept meaning to get it on
DVD as it look great & me being a Die-Hard Fan of not only Horror
Films, but of Halloween alone! I had to have it & did when it suddenly
appeared on the shelves in HMV!The film is an anthology of 10 Chilling Stories by 10 different
directors, not too dissimilar to the likes of the VHS Franchise, Trick
'r Treat & of course The All Hallow's Eve Films. It was a great watch
of a film, very impressed with the visuals here & there it had a very
strong Halloween vibe about it! I found it to be one of the Halloween
Horror Greats! These Halloween Themed Horror Films need to be done more
often! They're that great!So, here's a run down of each story in the film I liked & disliked.1. Sweet Tooth - A teenage babysitter and her boyfriend pay the price
for eating all of her charge's candy. Written and directed by Dave
Parker.Really liked this one, was very gory & fear ridden! Reminded me of
Krampus & Halloween (1978) a bit & was all round an epic tale!2. The Night Billy Raised Hell - A young boy is about to egg an old
man's house. The man turns out to be The Devil himself and teaches the
young boy a lesson. Written by Clint Sears, directed by Darren Lynn
Bousman.Another great tale with a twist! Bloody, gory & out right nuts! Only
thing I was confused about was why the boy at the end got shot for
pi$$ing his trousers? Lol.3. Trick - A group of friends are terrorised by vigilante trick-or-
treaters. Written by Greg Commons, directed by Adam Gierasch.Wasn't too sure about this one to begin with but ultimately loved it
afterwards! It was another bloody, gory roller-coaster ride!4. The Weak and the Wicked - A young man summons a Demon to exact
vengeance on 3 bullies who burned down his home along with his parents
in it. Written by Molly Millions, directed by Paul Solet.Another dark revenge tale that was sinister & overall epic!5. Grim Grinning Ghost - A young woman (Alex Essoe) is haunted by a
malevolent spirit. Written and directed by Axelle Carolyn.This was an alright kind of tale, not as good as the previous 4 but
good.6. Ding Dong - A man learns that his wife is a child hungry Witch and
tries to put a stop to her. Written and directed by Lucky McKee.Another one which wasn't the greatest, but an alright tale with a
sinister twist!7. This Means War - A man battles his new neighbour to the death for
the best Halloween decorations on the block. Written and directed by
Andrew Kasch and John Skipp.This one was also alright, not great but a funny & good watch overall!8. Friday the 31st - A deformed Serial killer meets his match when a
trick or treating extraterrestrial gets upset when he doesn't have any
candy. Written by Mike Mendez and Dave Parker, directed by Mike Mendez.Actually quite liked this one despite the stupid Sci-Fi part being
added in. It was bloody & gory! Nuff said!9. The Ransom of Rusty Rex - Two bank robbers kidnap a wealthy man's
son only to discover that the child is a deformed creature that doesn't
ever want to leave anyone's side. Written and directed by Ryan
Schifrin.This one was alright being honest, not great. But it was a unique tale
on how things can backfire!10.Bad Seed - A detective tries to put a stop to a genetically
engineered man eating pumpkin that's terrorising the town. Written and
directed by Neil Marshall.What better way to end a Halloween Anthology with than having a live
pumpkin eat people alive! This was funny, bloody & f**ked in all the
right ways!This film was overall a great watch! I give it a 9/10!
