1
Worse than anyone could have imagined

Let me start off by saying, I usually like this type of movie. I don't
mind movies where the girl kicks ass, even when it is entirely
unrealistic. If the girl also happens to be hot, then it's even better.
Here we have Scarlett Johansson, one of the hottest women of all time,
looks promising right? But everything that could possible go wrong,
goes wrong here. 1. Scarlett Johansson does not look her best in this movie. The
changing looks, the futuristic makeup and everything just fails
completely. The fact that she transforms into an emotionally void
cyborg also means that she becomes entirely unrelatable for the
audience. For 90% of the movie she conveys the same blank facial
expression. Kind of like Will Smith in After Earth. 2. The special effects are lackluster and sluggish. I have been waiting
for a movie about a woman with superpowers, able to do anything she
wants, but what does she do: She uses telekinesis to levitate a bunch
of goons, she pushes a cop to another seat of a car, she stops bullets
in mid-air, and...that's pretty much it. 3. The plot. Besides the premise of being utterly false, the movie
keeps conveying false information and misdirection. As a biologist, the
portrayal of evolution in this movie is worse than what any Christian
fundamentalist could do. Every 10 minutes a full screen notice of
10%-20%-30%...appears, just to let us know exactly how far along she
is. This is actually good, because we have no other means of knowing.
It's not like her abilities improve. In fact, after 40% she does not
use her abilities at all. 4. Artistically this movie keeps making cut scenes to completely random
images and sequences, that should be used to associate with what occurs
in the actual film. But this just adds an element of "weird for the
sake of weird", and it just makes it more confusing and frustrating to
watch.5. The climax or rather anticlimax of the movie is what topped it off
as the worst movie I have seen at the cinema. Spoiler!!! In the end,
after she goes 100%, she turns herself into a USB drive for Morgan
Freeman, and then the movie ends! It is completely ridiculous, and so underwhelming. The acting is bad
and with no impact, the action is boring and clumsy, the plot makes no
sense, and the ending is so under the top silly that it doesn't even
make the movie "so bad that it's good". While I have seen worse movies
before (not many), I have never seen worse movies at the cinema. I did
not expect anything good, but to have it be that much worse...I was so
disappointed by this, and I thought I had set the bar so low as to
prevent this. I thought I would just see a mindless action flick, where
a hot girl got to kick ass. This...was absolute rubbish.
