1
On Par for Modern Hollywood Remakes (Meaning it Stinks)

First off, this is another movie in which the action sequences last so
long that you can go to the bathroom, get a soda, come back and still
find the same people fighting the same fights you saw begin 15 minutes
earlier. Personally, these type of action movies bore me to tears,
because the story has to stop moving every time we watch one of these
extended action sequences. In terms of story, the good guys and the bad
guys meeting is a plot point. Then they fight, then one of them wins.
As an audience member, I'm ready to know who wins as soon as they start
fighting. And I really need the lead characters to have some logical
reasons for doing what they are doing. Here's my spoiler: They drive away from someplace for half the movie
and then decide to turn around and go back. The only thing that
happened was that they picked up a gang of old ladies. That's as deep
as it gets right there. They're running away, fighting the whole way,
they get away and then they decide to go back, so they have to fight
the whole way. Nothing makes much sense, no characters are anything but
as shallow as they could have possibly been made. If you like Avatar,
you'll like this movie. If you liked Mad Max and Road Warrior, you're
going to be angry about how that franchise was exploited in name and
setting only. This character isn't Mad Max. He doesn't have a dog, he doesn't eat dog
food, he doesn't eat anything. Nobody in the film ever eats anything.
Nor are people clamoring for gasoline, they all just seem to have it.
There's an issue with water, but it makes no sense and the entire weak
plot seems to depend on it. The movie ends with giant water valves
being opened just like the air valves on Mars get turned on in the end
of that Governor Arnold movie, I can't remember the name. The reviews
calling this something new and different are absolute hogwash. This is
nothing but things blowing up and cars crashing for two hours, which,
by the way, is another egregious offense of these silly movies. They
take a 90 minute movie with a great story line, and they strip it of
plot and somehow extend it by 30 minutes. It's a scary trend, the kind
of thing that makes one think Idiocracy was prophetic. The less the
story and the more things blow up, the higher the ratings. Ridiculous!
