7
Strangely Enchanting

Nobody is asking for another Snow White movie, but at some point, this
one is interesting because it's directed by Tarsem Singh and you know
his films always have quirky visuals and fascinating costumes. Nothing
like any blockbusters out there. And these elements fit perfectly to
the story of Snow White. As a result, it's enjoyable and amusing.
Although it suffers a few missteps that aren't easy to ignore. But the
merits are more noticeable than the flaws. It may be unnecessary but
it's actually pretty good.The film throws plenty of twists to the story. The only part they
removed from the original Snow White story is having friends with
forest animals which is important because it shows how innocent Snow
White is but Snow White isn't quite innocent here. Just like the other
upcoming Snow White film, she's fighting here(Shown in trailer. Not
spoilers). The film is random in most sequence but it's actually fun.
It's clever how they made the love triangle of Snow White, The Queen,
and The Prince.I loved the cast. Lily Collins is captivating and adorable as Snow
White. Armie Hammer makes a charming Prince. Julia Roberts was meant to
steal the show. They're aiming her as an annoying petty villain and it
works effectively. It's good to see Nathan Lane again. We don't see him
that much in movies anymore but he can still give plenty of joy and
laughs to the audience. The dwarfs are enjoyable as well.The script can be problematic sometimes, especially to one scene when
Snow White says to the Prince he had no pants but what she actually
meant he was shirtless. The climax twist was underwhelming and
enervating. Like I say, Tarsem Singh's trademarks works best here. The
quirky visuals are wonderful. The scene when the Queen's giant puppets
attacks the dwarfs' home looks great though the editing is kind of
messy. The costumes are simply fascinating.Unexpectedly, the film turns out to be magical and fun in a strange
way. Since Hollywood is suddenly making too much adaptations of Fairy
Tales these days, at least this one has magic. I don't know what will
the other upcoming Snow White movie is going to be but this one is
simple and fun despite from its randomness and missteps. If Tarsem
Singh directs a film, no matter how good or bad it is, it will always
look fascinating.
