9
The Expendables are back and stuff gets blown up!  What else did you expect?

I went to this film expecting another fun explosive ride and I got what
I was expecting. Lots of explosions, plenty of bullets and numerous
kills. I have to say I enjoyed this one a bit more than the last one, I
am not sure what the critics were complaining about, but then they were
harsh to Sylvester and Arnold's films back in the day too, so I guess I
should not expect anything different this go around. And speaking of
Arnold, it was great to see him back and part of the action this time.
Probably one of the reasons I enjoyed this one a bit more than the
second film.The story has our gang going into some type of military type
installation to retrieve a hostage right from the get go. Suffice to
say, before the title comes across the screen you are exposed to lots
of action and violence. Ah Sylvester, you sure know how to do it right.
We get introduced to a new member of the team and sad to say we have to
say goodbye to one of the older members. Granted he was not killed, but
he does exit the film early and does not return. I could not believe he
did not come back, and if I have a gripe about the film it is that this
character did leave so early. Well Church (Bruce Willis) finds Barney
(Stallone) and he wants a favor. He wants Barney to take his team to
the site of a crash to retrieve something. Something that Van Damme
wants and gets. Barney's group goes after this villain, not because of
what was taken, but for revenge! The character's are expanded upon here
a bit more. It was great seeing Dolph with the team for the entire
film. He is still crazy, but he is a bit more under control and
actually provides some very humorous moments. Arnold and Bruce are in
this one a lot more than the previous film too. They get to take part
in the action this time as their roles are not merely walk ons this
time. Chuck Norris also gets to do his thing, just as he did back in
the 70's and 80's. Van Damme was also in this one a good deal and he
made a very good villain. He was much more memorable than the villains
from the previous film, I mean Stone Cold was good at the fighting, but
did not leave an impression on me as far as acting. Van Damme on the
other hand played the part of a villain very well, this film may open
up another avenue for him.This film was fun for me. I am not suggesting it is a work of art or
anything, but I missed the first film in the theaters, so I was not
going to miss this one. I wanted to see this troupe of action stars
shoot it up on the big screen and I got what I wanted to see. Arnold's
return was particularly satisfying for me, as there has been a void in
my movie theater life since he became governor. I want to see him on
the big screen as he was a favorite of mine as a kid and young adult. I
also enjoyed seeing Norris on the big screen for the first time in my
life. I thank Stallone for bringing all the big guns to the table and
while others may not have cared for this film...for me, it was a blast!
So sorry if you do not care for my opinion, but I enjoyed this film.
