8
The power of two united human beings and how they are able to help one another overcome their respective adversities

After the astonishing "Un prophète", Jacques Audiard brings us "De
rouille et d'os", a completely atypical love story that he himself
jokingly described as "a melo-trash", which perfectly pictures the
overall tone of the film and the social classes on display.By the end of the film, you will understand the meaning of the title
"De rouille et d'os" (Rust and Bone), as both the elements mentioned in
it portray the characters' respective adversities and the constant
emphasis on their flaws as human beings.So this is a love story, but like Audiard said himself, the social
classes on display are not your typical Colgate-smiled, suit-wearing,
warm-hearted yuppie or Beverly Hills blondie shop-a-holic bimbo finding
out she's got a heart just as big as her beachside house.This is no Hollywood romance in any way, whether you think of the
people we see interact, or the way this whole story unfolds...it's just
plain different, and very refreshing. While a majority of female viewers seemed to dislike the character of
Ali, as a man, I can tell you, this is a guy most of us can relate to
in some ways. Irresponsible, poor, rough, opportunistic with the
ladies, questionable manners, not really a good father, but, deep
inside, a good human being nonetheless.Stéphanie, on the other hand, starts off as a very narcissistic young
woman, who enjoys teasing guys to admittedly revamp her self-esteem.So we've got two characters that will get us to scratch our heads,
thinking : "How can I possibly find any of these two people likable?"
And the answer lies within the next two hours, where Audiard and his
sublime cast organically bring two ordinary characters going through
extraordinary circumstances together in what ends up being a beautiful
and rewarding fight to becoming better people who love each other.Now, these two characters are portrayed as fighters, as in most of
Jacques Audiard's films. Ali is, literally, aspiring to become a pro
MMA fighter, while Stéphanie, following a tragic accident, struggles to
feel a slight bit of happiness after losing her legs.But "De rouille et d'os" isn't about a woman losing her legs or some
guy trying to make it to the big leagues of pro fighting...This film is
about the power of two united human beings and how they are able to
help one another overcome their respective adversities. It does sound
very heavy, but Audiard made it clear when shooting the film (if you
watch the making-of, you will see) that, at no point, he wanted this
film to be overly dramatic, even when some situations that occur would
usually send the characters down that path. In many ways, this is a
fascinating character study, a quest for positivity unfolding in an
emotional wasteland, with glimpses of affection subtly brought to the
surface here and there, avoiding clichés at all times in the process.Visually, "De rouille et d'os" is fabulous. The almost blinding sun
crossing paths with the lens, the beach, the ocean, the warm Côte
d'Azur setting...If you've ever been to Antibes, you will be amazed at
how Audiard was able to capture the essence of that place and take it
to the screen. Some people thought the pace was a little slow, and there is a drastic
turn of events that will seem to come out of nowhere a little bit. Some
of the subplots do feel a tad undeveloped, but no harm done here, in
all honesty. The focus remains on the two protagonists and picturing
their daily living, where their relationship deepens its roots.Also, to those who thought Ali was insensitive : This is exactly why
Stéphanie feels strong when she is with him. Ali couldn't care less
about her handicap. He just grabs her out of the wheelchair, carries
her on his back, and takes her out for a swim after she spent months
behind the closed doors of her apartment. There is this subtle moment
when Ali takes Stéphanie to his sister's place, and she is all careful
with Stéphanie, constantly feels compassionate about her, and suddenly,
Ali, a tad annoyed, tells her to stop. This, right there, is what makes
Ali so important to Stéphanie : he's the only person who doesn't look
at her with pity. And that is where the bold, "insensitive to some"
side of Ali becomes the remedy to her sadness.Matthias Schoenaerts and Marion Cotillard are both amazing. You rarely
see such an organic chemistry between two characters. This really is
something special that will grow on you.Fantastic cinematic experience. Rich in both flamboyant and subtle
emotions. Again, some tremendous work from Jacques Audiard...and the
two protagonists!
