4
Looked good on paper

The book overall was not special, but had enough heart to convey a fine
coming of age tale. It was also a bit of a slow burn with drifting away
from the main plot line many times before meeting back to towards the
tail end to finish the story. The movie version feels like it is
rushing and plodding at different times to reach its end, not knowing
what to use from the more than enough material from the book to tell a
tale.The first movie based on a John Green's novel 'The fault in our stars'
had a little fantasy about its plot, which made suspension of disbelief
happen naturally for the audience to enjoy the story. Unfortunately for
John Green's other novel 'Paper Towns' it had to get things right about
reality. And to make it into a PG-13 movie is hard. Everything has to dumbed
down and put into appropriately classified boxed up stereotype. There
is even a gimmick guest appearance from Ansel Elgort from the 'Fault in
our stars'.The movie version should not been such a miss-hit. But the story in the
book drifts away many times into long and unnecessary conversations
between Q, Ben and Radar while playing games in their room or at the
school. These conversations are important for the audience to bond with
the three endearing characters. It slows the pace down but helps the
book reach its not so stunning climax. The book also helps understand
Margo's relationship with her parent's better, which is important to
understand her constant vanishing act.The cast fails to deliver the dialogs convincingly and make everything
look stiff. Worst off Cara Delevingne, the reason of all the trouble
the hero gets in just days before his final exams, should definitely
raise her acting level in her next project Suicide Squad to not
terminate that franchise at the word go. Except for Justin Smith's
Radar all everyone fails to have any kind of timing. The film comes off as having a very lazy production hoping to find
success on the back off John Green's reader following; but thankfully
they too disowned this serving.
