1
intelligent competent architect overpowered and outwitted by two loony girls

Movie is unrealistic in these ways. Keanu's victim character actually
called 911 and reported a break in. One of the girls quickly hung up
the phone before he could say more. In such an instance it is police
policy to visit... they would have been there within minutes, taking a
report and names of everyone. Game over right there.Size and strength advantage was overwhelmingly in Evan's favor. Even
when he realized the seriousness of the situation, he was overpowered
by just one of the two girls in a fight, not a tag team attack (even
then, in real life they'd lose every time).With his life clearly in grave danger, and within grappling distance,
Evan makes no move for the girl pointing a gun at him. For one, I
watched closely and her fingers were BEHIND the trigger. Not to mention
it's a Beretta 92fs with a very slow heavy double action first trigger,
also to his advantage. It's his gun, he'd know both of these things.
Further considering the efforts to hide it from his kids in the
sculpture/vase, it's very likely the SAFETY WAS ON. I rewound and it
appeared to be on but somewhat dark and blurry. Either way with your
life on the line you lunge, especially with an obvious total gun novice
that is stupidly too close with her fingers BEHIND the trigger. All of
this was unbelievable.Digging that hole would have taken those little girls hours (they
likely would have been exhausted and totally spent, unable to chase
Evan down later when he made a break for it). Further, the girls would
have been too deep in the hole working and distracted, and that
ridiculous cord tie up job could have been quickly worked loose with
any adrenaline fueled effort while they were toiling away. He could
have gotten his gun and game over.The comedic 'liking' the horrible Facebook post by accident and the kid
making the line about daddy having a party took away from the serious
thriller aspects that the director tried but failed to achieve
throughout the movie. Still, bad call, counterproductive decision.Not realistic enough to be terrifying, more like a bad unintended dark
comedy.
