9
Exceptional, Jarring, and Thought-Provoking Unsung Heroes

Not knowing what to expect, I checked out to see how the story of three
female individuals made a difference at NASA back in 1961. I've
witnessed in past historical dramas of where racism included violence,
but that is not the case regarding Hidden Figures. Rather it focused
more on how it was overcome in casual, everyday life (especially the
workplace).The story revolves around three brilliant African-American women by the
names of Katherine Johnson, Dorothy Vaughan, and Mary Jackson as they
live their lives working at NASA among a nearly all-white staff.
Despite segregation still circulating at the time, each of them proved
that no matter what color they were, it's their intellect and willpower
that got them through each obstacle of the day and also helped make
history for astronaut John Glenn to be the first American astronaut to
completely orbit the Earth.With an interesting balance of wit and drama, I found its tribulations
to be the main focus. Since the movie was based on true events, to me
it felt like a wonderful tie-in to the 2014 drama "Selma" since that
too revolved around a time when people marched to spread the word of
ending segregation. But unlike Selma where black people and Dr. Martin
Luther King fought for the right to vote, Hidden Figures tackled both
the obstacles of racism and even sexism in of all places NASA. It was
very jarring to see that despite the characters' extensive knowledge in
their work and upon receiving their own respective degrees in their
studies, it's still looked down upon by the self- righteous higher-ups.
Taraji P. Henson (Empire) sure brought out a splendid performance as
mathematician Katherine Johnson. Likewise for her costars Octavia
Spencer (The Help) and Janelle Monae as they helped balance the drama,
including sass to boot. Kevin Costner and 'Big Bang Theory' star Jim
Parsons also helped give some depth (though I wouldn't call them
antagonists) in these women's lives.Personally, I enjoyed the events that unfolded overall. When it came to
the racial undertones and confrontations in a few scenes, myself and a
few others in the theater old or young were left curious and appalled
at the same time by how this was a thing in the 1960s compared to the
present. It's sure to go far with various accolades.The moral: If you put your mind to it, things can be accomplished no
matter how many would say otherwise.
