4
Late Bloomer

(RATING: ☆☆ out of 5) GRADE: C- THIS FILM IS NOT RECOMMENDED.IN BRIEF: A love story that never blossoms into anything remotely
realistic or moving.SYNOPSIS: A historical romance set in 16th century Amsterdam that
follows two star-crossed lovers amid the flower wars.JIM'S REVIEW: Behold the tulip! Most delicate and beautiful, yet
fragile and easily bruised. Its life expectancy is short-lived and it
sags from its own top heaviness, finally withering after its bloom. The
same can be said about its namesake, 's Tulip Fever, an overwrought
illogical melodrama that is fetching to gaze upon and, quite literally,
a dull affair. Tulip Fever is a visual feast for the eyes and a fertilizer for the
mind. There is some good here, at least, technically: The stunning
production design by Simon Elliott, detailed period costumes created by
Michael O'Connor, and Eigil Bryld's luscious photography are first
rate. Danny Elfman has a lovely score also. These artisans deserve
better future projects. But mostly, there is plenty of bad on view.Justin Chadwick directed this potboiler with little flourish. His film
is well crafted but its central romance is tepid at best. The
screenplay, based on Deborah Moggach's best-selling romance novel,
tries to interweave its narrative with some historical accuracy and
some sexual passion and fails in both aspects. That celebrated
playwright Tom Stoppard (along with the author) created this sluggish
and loopy film adaptation is mind-boggling to me. The love story
elements never gels with the political backstory and it all leads to an
ending that becomes thoroughly nonsensical and unsatisfying.The story-line goes like this: Apparently tulips were all the rage in
Amsterdam, a valued commodity back in the mid 1600's. This special and
rare flower brought high prices in what appeared to be a Ponzi scheme
of sorts and the owner of this flora could earn serious guilders. Jan
van Loos (Dane DeHaan, very miscast), a talented but struggling artist,
wants to be part of the " flower fever". Hired to commission portraits
of a rich merchant and his lovely young wife (already you can see where
this is going), Jan begins a torrid love tryst with Sophia (Alicia
Vikander) while his cuckold husband Cornelius (Christoph Waltz), who is
in dire need of a male heir, is oblivious to their nightly romps.Mr. Waltz, forever typecasts as The Man You Love to Hate, takes over
the villain role and adds some nice layers to his stock character. But
Ms. Vikander and especially Mr. DeHaan are unconvincing and unappealing
in their roles as the doomed lovers. Their love scenes together are
laughable. Mr. DeHaan, always a poor man's Leonardo diCaprio type,
seems like a little lost boy in heat and Ms. Vikander rarely finds the
right persona of a woman losing control over her life. Instead she
loses control of her character. The two actors fail to add the
necessary heat to burn those embers of passion. Yes, they're naked and
sweaty, but who cares?The supporting cast is totally wasted and the talent involved is given
little to do. Such fine British performers as Holliday Grainger, Jack
O'Connell, Douglas Hodge, David Harewood, and the great Judi Dench are
ill-treated. American and Scottish actors are treated no better as
Matthew Morrison and Kevin McKidd are given little to do. Tom Hollander
does succeed in adding some needed humor in a minor role. But Cara
Delevingine and Zach Galifianakis are walking enigmas in their parts as
a prostitute and manservant, although if they switch roles, the film
would at least be memorable.Tulip Fever reinforces the law of supply and demand in the core of its
storytelling. Unfortunately, good drama is in short supply and demand
to see this film should be limited. So don't invest your time or money
in this folly. It's a real bust.
