8
A superb and fascinating thriller with a top-drawer acting by Tom Hanks

This is a powerful and intensely watchable film , a masterful exercise
in building tension . Director Paul Greengrass has established himself
as a huge talent . This is the true story of Captain Richard Phillips
and the 2009 hijacking by Somali pirates of the US-flagged MV Maersk
Alabama, the first American cargo ship to be hijacked in two hundred
years . The first encounter with the young Somalis who chase and board
the gigantic Maersk Alabama is on the shores of their homeland, delving
, briefly but significantly , into the poverty that drives fishermen to
risk life and limb in pursuit of deep sea big game . As the crew of an
American cargo ship is hijacked by Somali pirates who proceed to engage
in escalating negotiations with authorities to get a lot of money .
Amongst the men on board are the ship's captain who along with the rest
of the seamen are taken hostage in a cynical game of life and death.It's a grade A picture , a gem , absorbing , riveting , highly moving ,
incredibly tense . This is a psychological drama in which a group of
violent pirates demand for a ransom of millions of dollars , it unfolds
a battle of wits between the crew of the shipping company and the
Somali pirates . This is a smart and sensitive thriller filled with
noisy action , thrills , emotion and very entertaining though overlong
. Thrilling as well as exciting confrontation of wits between captain
Phillips , seamen and pirates , who gradually come to up more and more
. This drama about the capture on the high seas of an American ship is
doubtless the most exciting one that has ever come down the pike about
. This nail-biter is a tightly-knit drama centered on the relentless
sea maneuvers of a freighter pursued by a band of pirates and the
captain's subsequent kidnapping . The picture makes up for it with an
evolving atmosphere of anxiety and fear . Everything in Paul Greengrass's impressive film looks so real that you
might think it's a high resolution videotape of a pirate hijacking .
Interesting screenplay , being based upon the book "A Captain's Duty:
Somali Pirates, Navy SEALS, and Dangerous Days at Sea" . And the
hijacking of the Maersk Alabama and hostage-taking of Captain Phillips
were also central to the Elmore Leonard novel Djibouti (2010). The
timing of the release coincides with the theatrical release of a Danish
movie titled "Kapringen" or ¨A Hijacking¨ (2012) by Tobias Lindholm
dealing with similar events . Top-notch performance by Tom Hanks as a
clever as well astute captain along with a remaining support cast
formed by unknown African players . Tom Hanks says the first time he
met the actors playing the Somali pirates was when they started filming
the pirates taking over the bridge , Paul Greengrass mentioned he did
this intentionally to build up tension between the actors on board the
ship and the actors playing the Somaili pirates. In ¨Captain Phillips¨
there is the urgent hand-held camera-work, a directorial trademark
refined and perfected by cameraman Barry Ackroyd , which lends an air
of pseudo-documentary authenticity to carefully staged reconstructions,
putting us right there in the huddle of the action . Furthermore , a
tense as well as enjoyable musical score by Henry Jackman .The motion picture was compellingly directed by Paul Greengrass who
proved his action aesthetics and nail-biting filmmaking as well as he
formerly made in ¨Green zone¨, ¨The Bourne ultimatum¨ , ¨United 93¨,
¨Bourne supremacy¨ , ¨Bloody Sunday¨, among others . Rating : Above
average , a magnificent film . Essential and indispensable seeing . The
picture will appeal to Tom Hanks fans .
