10
Intellectual, emotion-packed, spectacularly acted Sci Fi is sabotaged by Fanboys

Full disclosure: the original Robocop is among my top 5 favorite films
of all time, and I've easily watched it over 200 times. With that being
said, I still looked forward to this re-interpretation due to my love
of the character (whose legacy had already been profoundly tarnished by
the redundant first sequel and catastrophically misguided second
sequel) and my admiration of director Jose Padilha's "Elite Squad"
films (as well as his documentaries). Suffice to say, I came into the
theater with a bias toward wanting the film to succeed.I'm willing to acknowledge that it may be for this reason that I found
this film to be a resounding (if slightly flawed) success. Conversely,
it is my belief that a large contingent of overzealous "fans" were
hellbent on seeing this film fail, therefore had pre-determined that
the movie was trash. How could it possibly withstand several years of
unwavering hatred during its production and be given a fair shot?
Judging by the middling 6.7 IMDb rating and the 50% Rotten Tomatoes
score, many people loathed the film just as much as they'd hoped they
would.This viewer simply cannot accept that Robocop 2014 is anywhere near as
bad as people are rating it. For starters, the film has been bashed
mercilessly for idiotically trivial elements such as "His hand is
human!", "His suit is black!", or worst of all, "I refuse to support a
PG-13 version of Robocop". It is my firm belief that all of these
criticisms are merely the ravings of closed-minded fanboys who are
(bizarrely) searching for the next movie to "ruin their childhood".
It's a phenomenon that is baffling and absurd. Anyway, I rated the film 10/10 on IMDb because I wanted the score to
weigh heavier in the positive direction. Truth be told, I think the
film is a solid 8 and may even grow to become a 9 over time. Of course
it's not as good as Verhoeven's classic, and obviously it's much
different in tone. For that I am grateful -- part 2 tried so
desperately to ape the original that it felt like a rather soulless
carbon copy (albeit a copy salvaged somewhat by spectacular stop-motion
effects and a great villain in Tom Noonan's "Cain"). I didn't want
another movie trying to mimic the satire of the original, nor did I
feel that anyone could ever one-up the hyper-violence of the 1987
version, so why try?There are those that argue that this film should have simply been
called something else other than Robocop if it wanted to be so
different, and I get that...except the bottom line is few studios will
ever greenlight a $120 million dollar film without some kind of name
recognition. It's a sad truth. But in utilizing the Robocop brand name,
Padilha was given the funding to acquire a brilliant cast and design
cutting edge digital effects. In my opinion, a little brand recognition
is a fair trade off if it helps the film achieve the look and feel of a
high-end sci-fi blockbuster.Anyway, I've already babbled several paragraphs longer than I'd
intended. The bottom line is you should abandon your preconceptions and
watch the movie for what it is: a genuinely smart, heartfelt and
wonderfully acted sci-fi featuring characters we know and love. What's
so awful about that?
