4
Scott's visually stunning epic is an emotionless event

All creative persons/artists go through a creative funk, it's just part 

and parcel of the business they're in. Whether it be a writer who 

suffers from the dreaded writers block, an actor that can't seem to buy 

a hit or a painter that can't seem to replicate the images in their 

heads, the creative lulls affect all. Famed British director Ridley 

Scott, the visionary master behind such classics as Alien, Blade Runner 

and Gladiator has found himself in one of these creative dead zones, 

but the most telling thing about his time in this lowly state is that 

his been there for the better part of a decade and after witnessing his 

new cashed up epic Exodus, it seems he is destined to remain there for 

the foreseeable future. 



Exodus is one of the most telling examples of storytelling mediocrity 

overshadowing impeccable production values that I've ever seen and it 

would be hard for anyone to argue against the pure visual value present 

on screen in what is a clearly lavishly splurged upon epic. From 

monuments through to the slums of the slave's right down to the extra 

clad streets, Exodus brims to life with a detailed and often incredible 

visual palette. While the wonders of the on screen production will 

consistently make you look twice, there seems like such little point to 

an exercise like this when all is surrounded by a script that never 

allows us in, alongside Scott directing proceedings like a man that 

wants to show off but not engage, direction more concerned with how to 

spectacularly kill of horses than making the characters and story come 

to life. 



Much has been made in the media of late surrounding the casting of 

actors in Exodus but more importantly to movie goers it's important to 

know just how tame the acting turns are here. Christian Bale makes for 

a watchable yet not entirely memorable Moses, his incarnation has 

moments of brief humanity but he feels more a caricature than a living 

breathing embodiment of one of the Bibles most well-known figures, we 

feel tiny bits of the weight Moses had on his shoulders, yet our care 

towards him remains dangerously low. On the other end of the spectrum 

Australian Joel Edgerton (in perhaps his biggest Hollywood gig yet) 

fails to deliver on what should've been a glorious big screen villain 

in the form of Rhamses. All eyeliner and grizzled looks, Edgerton fails 

to convince in his role and it feels from the get go that sadly he 

may've been miscast much like John Turturoo's Seti, Aaron Paul's Joshua 

and Ben Kinglsey's Nun, even the usually scene stealing Ben Mendelsohn 

as Hegep fails to make much of a mark which leaves the film but a few 

genuine moments of memorability, that being all largely related to the 

onset of the plagues. 



Impressive visuals, stunning sets and some genuinely wow inducing 

moments concerning the plagues aren't enough to save this emotionally 

void epic from a giant wave of the mundane. Scott sure knows how to 

conduct his production department and his sweeping camera sure can 

capture some outstanding action but the one time storyteller has lost 

sight of how to portray his characters, how to play out a story and 

Exodus looks set to become another Scott failure that looks likely to 

underwhelm audiences as well as Box Office's the world over. 



2 shades of eyeliner out of 5




