9
Blown Away

Rarely have I seen such unbridled inspired violence on screen. I loved
every bit of this film, and not since 'Aliens' have I winced, grimaced,
cried out in exclamation whilst rooting so shamelessly for it to
continue.Vince Vaughn is not the type of actor you would normally associate with
this kind of role and though he's certainly not typecast, seeing him
here will have some of the more constrained individuals at odds.
However, he steps up to the plate and 'Home Runs' this one like he's
been playing the bad boy, hard man since day one. It's a mile away from
the usual films he features in and he really shows the extent of his
range with this role.This isn't one of those trussed up thinly veiled Oliver Stone or
Tarantino movies all gussied up with gruesome activities and violence
for the sake of the film... Oh no no no! This story compels violence,
it demands it as a necessity to fulfil the screenplay. I felt my need
for violent imagery completely satiated as the final credits rolled. The fight scenes in particular were very well executed. Much unlike the
usual physical big screen exchanges that go on forever because fatigue
in films is much like that in video games, these are shorter, more
decisive and less one sided. There's little if any of that
'choreographed' feel which often makes fight scenes and physical
encounters more like practiced dance routines than actual battles for
physical supremacy. However I'm not doing this film justice, as the story here I a very
good one. The film starts off fairly slowly but by the time its half an
hour in and has picked up momentum, its like an unstoppable freight
train. The adaptation is excellent, visually very powerful, some great
graphic representation, particularly some of the prison scenes. The
direction, wow! I mean this is as clear an example of what can be done
with good direction as you will ever see. Truthfully, I could fault a
few aspects of this film if I nit-pick, but really, that would be me
trivialising. If you don't like gruesome violence do not watch this film. This film
takes you by the scruff of the neck and throws you into a world of
graphic physical violence. If you want to watch a good story,
essentially about the depths of violence that can be unleashed by a
'good-guy' when truly motivated criminal elements for manipulation...
watch this film.I will simply say everything here is on point
