10
A genuine and perspective review (from someone who have seen the movie)

(Warning there might be some brief spoilers and please READ before
rating!)For a long time IMDb has been my help for not only watching many movies
but also helping me to be aware what movie's are great or awful. But
now I think I'm almost starting to lose my respect for this site when a
movie like Big Hero 6 is being wrongfully bashed for being clichéd or
unoriginal and many other things. To be honest everyone, Big Hero 6 is
getting too much undeserved hatred. Why are there so many people who
are so against this movie in the first place? Now don't get me even started with that "it's a kids movie" crap, I'm a
20 year old boy who loves Animated movies as well enjoys live-action
movies but I have realized one thing that I think everyone should learn
is that: Just because it's an animated flick it doesn't have to be a
true kids thing. I don't care if this is a Disney movie, most of them
are great and well- crafted but as well there have been some less
better movies lately like "Brave" and "Frozen" (please I don't want to
offend anyone I just didn't enjoy them very well for various reasons).What I have also learned is that there are two kinds of experience when
people watch movies; one are those who enjoys them through the whole of
their length and the second are those who analyzes them. I usually
don't analyze movies but lately it has been useful for me to experience
them but I do enjoy them as well depending my interests and vision. I
know when a movie is good or awful but a movie like Big Hero 6 just
doesn't deserve the hatred it is getting and having seen the movie
twice I really can't find and see what's to wrong with it.People were arguing that "Brave" didn't deliver a prominent story being
based on its title, and people were arguing to "Frozen" for the bad
moralities it delivered (I admit that some of the morals they showed
indeed left me questionable). Did I feel the same with BH6? No not at
all. I wasn't just looking for a movie with beautiful animation and
some nice humor, I looked for and were hoping for a movie with better
morals and I can assure that you will get those in this movie.Stop thinking that this will be a movie that the kids will find it
awesome like a "Ben 10" show-off with no story. This neither was a
brain-dead movie like a Michael Bay film and neither was it only made
for the kiddies, when I was in the theater not only did the children
enjoy it but the whole theater with the adults cheered and were happy
that it touched them and realizing that the movie worked without being
a commercial of something.The movie worked fine and yet being based on the comic book and it's
"obvious" changes it didn't look something that looked "childish" or
"unbearable". The main character and it's adventure did remind me why I
loved the first Spider-Man movie from 2002. I know that many people
said that the movie was too fast or really fast-paced that you don't
get to learn it's supporting characters. OK while I can agree that the
movie was pretty fast-paced but I got to learn the "supporting
characters" without any problems, they're not one-dimensional trust me
even though we get to learn more about Fred which in my opinion was a
very nice character which indeed left me surprised for who he really
was. As for the main villain, I didn't mind if it would have been an
important or a special character from the movie but I was hoping to
know if it were a true villain for a "good" reason. Be honest you don't
like it when a certain villain is a villain for no reason. And it's
main reason for me looked alright I wasn't unimpressed or flabbergasted
at all. Really Yokai was a much better villain than "Hans" from
"Frozen".Anyways I found BH6 to have the things that kept me enjoyed, good
morals, characters that learn and evolves from their flaws, a cute
robot like Baymax (who wouldn't like to have a robot like him?), nice
humor without being too crude or inappropriate, pretty nice soundtrack,
a gorgeous unexpected moment and most importantly; Heart and I do mean
it this time. I don't care if a 10 sounds ludicrous, I gave it a 10
because I was so pleased that Disney finally could capture their
essence not only what they were made for, but a movie that finally
delivers more desirable morals than what both "Brave" and "Frozen"
didn't deliver.So really ignore the poor and negative reviews out there, there not
making any justice to this movie. This movie is much better than what
you might think it is and stop thinking it like it's meant to be for
the children's entertainment where no older people than them can enjoy.
Give this a chance especially if you're looking for a better animated
film than the last 2 Oscar winners we recently had. And if you ever or
somebody you know need a movie that delivers the good morals, this
movie will always be there for you.
