3
Truly execrable

What to Expect When You're Expecting can be classified in the
"self-help books turned into horrible films" category (along with He's
Just Not That Into You), but it can also fit into the "multiple
Hollywood stars trapped into a horrible film" category (along with New
Year's Eve and He's Just Not That Into You). Nevertheless, the niche
isn't very important, because the result is the same: a pathetic movie
with many famous actors but a deplorable screenplay. So, this tedious
adaptation fails on every single level: as a comedy, it's completely
unfunny; and it doesn't respect the spirit of the book on which it was
based, because it doesn't offer any advice or inspiration to the future
mothers (with one exception: "pretty people also suffer").In previous occasions, when Hollywood took books to the big screen,
they were novels, comics or biographies...something with a story,
characters, chronological flow, or similar elements of narrative art.
However, "money calls money", so any successful book is currently
susceptible to be adapted into a movie. The book What to Expect When
You're Expecting has sold millions of copies, and it's been very useful
for many families to face the difficulties of pregnancy (at least
that's what I have been told). On the other hand, the film What to
Expect When You're Expecting is a rehash of melodramatic clichés and
romantic comedy formulas structured in a series of situation with a bad
shape and null rhythm. The result is a film full of insipid dialogues
and synthetic sentimentality which only provokes yawns.I honestly can't find any positive element in What to Expect When
You're Expecting, but at the same time, I admit the fact that I have a
biological disadvantage and I can't evaluate the film from the point of
view of someone who has lived (or is living) pregnancy. Who knows? The
screenplay I found intolerable might hide valuable observations and
amusing references to moms and future moms who might feel themselves
identified with the characters of this film (after all, Cameron Diaz,
Jennifer Lopez and Brooklyn Decker are faithful reflections of the
average woman, right?). But from my personal experience, I can't
recommend by any means this execrable piece of junk. And the worst
thing of all is that What to Expect When You're Expecting establishes
an unfortunate precedent to the adaptations of more books lacking of
story. I can already imagine some Hollywood screenwriter trying to
write "Handbook of iPhone: The Movie"...Katherine Heigl and Ashton
Kutcher are two linguistic geniuses who meet each other playing Words
with Friends; they hate each other on the beginning, but their rivalry
becomes into a romance; Julia Roberts and Bradley Cooper accidentally
exchange telephones at a café, and they attempt to meet each other
following the dates of their respective calendars; when they finally
meet, they feel they know each other so well that they decide to get
married; Patrick Dempsey is a lawyer who sends an innocent text message
to the judge Halle Berry, but the "auto correct" acts up and makes it a
sexually suggestive message; the judge makes him arrest, and the lawyer
must defend his innocence at court...even though that will mean
revealing his love for Berry; and finally, Robin Williams starts a
trial for the State to recognize his marriage to Zooey Deschanel. The
problem? Williams ends up falling in love with his lawyer Jennifer
Garner, and Deschanel becomes so jealous that she will make Garner's
life impossible.
