7
Creeper Compendium.

The horror anthology has a chequered history, some are bad but saved by
one great segment, others boast a couple of genuine creepers but are
undone by one instalment so bad it tarnishes the film forever. And on
it goes. V/H/S brings the format into the new age by unfolding its
tales by wrapping around the latest craze of found footage.Six indie directors have produced a picture that was well received at
Sundance but has proved to be most divisive with critics and horror
fans on internet forums. This will come as no surprise to anyone who
knows their horror anthology onions. The usual problems are evident
here, a couple of great stories are surrounded by mediocre ones, but at
least there is something for everyone, with most bases covered, but
that in itself is a problem, all horror fans have preferences, it's a
big ask to expect a fan of stalk and slash to love a story about a
winged harpy!Then there is the issue of the found footage format, here recorded on
actual VHS. Not everyone is a fan (myself for instance), and much of
V/H/S is dizzying and often hard to follow, especially as regards the
Tape 56/frame narrative story that cloaks the other five stories as a
bunch of no-mark young crims burgle a grotty house and sift through the
tapes. It's a format loved by many for its supposed realism factors, I
don't get that myself, but for those people this really is up their
trees!Amateur Night (David Bruckner) and The Sick Thing That Happened to
Emily When She Was Younger (Joe Swanberg) are the standouts. The former
is a cautionary tale of frat boys out for sex who get more than they
bargained for when they take home the mysterious Lily, the latter an
eerie tale unfolded via Skype communication as Emily appears to be a
victim of a haunting whilst chatting to her doctor boyfriend.However, if you ask another fan of the film what stories they feel
standout, you may just get two different answers. So as with any other
anthology horror, you roll the dice and take your chance, just don't
expect genius in every story, for that is purely folly of expectation.
7/10
