1
Worst Franchise Reboot Ever Made *SPOILER ALERT*

I was unfortunate enough to see an early screening with a friend and...
man, this movie isn't bad; it's TERRIBLE. BEYOND TERRIBLE. It's getting mixed to positive reviews, but the people liking this
movie are the same people who jumped on-board the feminist "everyone
who hates this film is a misogynist" train and they don't even mention
anything beyond the parts they cherry-picked to like in the movie.
Throughout the hour and a half + movie, the movie made a desperate
attempt to be good to the point where it just appeared like they were
trying too hard. Much of the humor is forced and most of the jokes are
basic and can be seen/guessed even before the scene rolls. At times, it
felt cheap and lazy. I thought I was watching a failing SNL parody
rather than a good movie.Leslie Jones is another problem; she portrays a stereotypical black
woman with an attitude. Yelling? Check. Bitch slapping? Check. Every
single stereotype about black woman? Check. Remember Winston Zeddemore
from the original film? Was he a stereotypical black man at the time in
the 1980s? Nope. Instead, he was an Average Joe who wanted a job and
took it at Ghostbusters. Here, Leslie portrays her character in an
almost-offensive manner when it comes to playing a stereotypical black
woman. It's borderline inappropriate and, had she been a man, this film
would've been TRASHED by critics for this portrayal of a character. Also, it's Reverse Sexism in a film. Instead of treating both genders
equally, Paul Feig displays men as idiots or assholes. This is true
with Hemsworth's character, Kevin, who is the team's secretary. He's
completely stupid, clueless and innocent; but mostly stupid. Janine in
the original film was a smart, capable woman who had a lot of memorable
moments and wasn't portrayed in a sexist, if not really unattractive
manner. I almost walked out of the early screening because of how
poorly men were portrayed in the film. And, probably, by now, everyone
has heard of the atrocious final resolution to the final battle.
SPOILER ALERT: SKIP IF YOU WANNA ACTUALLY SEE THIS BURNING DUMPSTER
FIRE.The final battle is resolved by shooting Rowan in the dick. That's
right; four chicks shoot Rowan in the dick with their proton packs. -.-
You probably already know this because of the GIF floating around the
inter-webs, but, yeah. That's how the final battle ends; a really
sexist approach to finishing the film. It sounds mild, but combine this
with the portrayal of Kevin, Bill Murray's cameo and a few other male
characters who interact with the main characters and you have a
feminist film ready to go.Along with these criticisms come with the really bad script that just
acts like imitation crab in the food world; it's just an imitation. In
fact, half the plot imitates the original in a distasteful manner that
just really turns off Ghostbusters fans. It's unoriginal and it pays
little homage to the films. When it does, it does it in lackluster
fashion. Like, for example, Stay Puft's official sighting in this film
is in parade balloon form, not true marshmallow form. If you were
expecting at least one showdown with the destructive Puft himself,
think again. He has been replaced by the logo ghost. XD There's so much wrong with this movie, but these things are just a few
of them. Thanks Paul Feig for messing Ghosbusters up. I guess Paul's
been Busted and it felt good busting' this travesty of a film that will
haunt GB fans for generations.PROS: -Chris Hemsworth (For the most part) -Complete relief when the
film endedCONS: -Terrible acting -Abismal writing -Huge gaping plot holes (Like
the inability to buy the firehouse but the ability to create advanced
ghost busting technology and obtain parts and equipment.) -Poor CGI
effects -Disrespectful cameos and treatment of original material
-Reverse sexist message -A stereotypical caricature of a black woman
(Leslie Jones as Patty) -Useless inclusion of Patty into the GB team
-Non-existent character chemistry -Disappointing final battle which
breaks all GB rules first established in the film -Unmemorable
soundtrack -Poor editing -Inappropriate responses to constructive
criticism hidden in film -Dull, ineffective, dry forced-humor -Identity
crisis (Reboot or Sequel. Choose one, Feig.) -Laughable film effort in
generalThis film is BUSTED and busting this travesty of a film makes me feel
good; better than good... GREAT.1/10 10/100 1/5 F
