4
Could have been suspenseful of a survival and love story but it fails with a terrible script and direction.

A survival romantic film about two plane crash survivors that have to
find their way home in the snowy mountains could have been a whole lot
better. The Mountain Between Us lacks in about everything from
character developments to even making the characters interesting. The
thrills of surviving was very dull in the movie. And the last half of
the film spending it with the two leads following in love with each
other was just terrible. No offense to Kate Winslet and Idris Elba for being in such a terrible
film. They both are great actors and they work with what they got in
the script. Kate is a beautiful stunning actress. And Idris Elba is a
talented actor. There characters were nonetheless boring and
uninteresting. Kate plays photojournalist Alex, who is suppose to get
married and is trying to find a flight home (the day before the
wedding). And than you have Dr. Ben played by Idris Elba, who needed to
find a flight asap for an operation that he needed to be there for.
Both desperate people got caught with their flights being cancelled.
And they find a pilot that can fly them home without filing a flight
plan. Then, an incident causes there plane to go down and crash in the
snowy mountains. With limited food supply and no help coming. They both
will need each other to survive and to find their way home. The direction was boring. There was no suspense build up. The scene
with the plane crashing was dull and did not make it intense at all.
The dangers with the characters coming across a cougar was boring. The
whole film was just frustrating with Kate and Idris bickering at each
other. Idris telling her they need to stay put and take it slow. And
Kate running out there and wanting to find help. It's a movie were you
see two characters hike in the long snowy mountain telling and
reminding each other what they need to do for survival. And discussing
about possibly dying. It can get boring when this is going on for the
whole movie. Were the entire script is wasted with poor dialogue and no
development. Occasionally, seeing Kate getting into trouble and Elba
coming to the rescue repetitively. Also, the music score from Ramin Djawadi was slightly disappointing and
did not add anything to the movie. Then, the predictableness with the
characters falling in love with each comes to play which is hands down
frustrating and terrible. These characters are apparently been stranded
for three weeks but when watching the movie they felt like they been
stuck out there for a day or two. When it comes to the conclusion, the film slows down and takes forever
to find an ending. Which some scenes could have been trimmed down that
did not do anything to the plot or development. Besides seeing two
characters chase each other cause there not sure if there in love or
not. Overall, The Mountain Between Us is a terrible film. Kate Winslet and
Idris Elba are the saving grace with their acting. But there characters
are not. The direction is dull and tedious. The love story is
frustrating and cliché. Not even the sappy kind of love story either. I rate the film 2 out of 5 stars. I do not recommend to see on the big
screen, there is no excitement and no real suspense. If you want to
see, I ll wait until it's a rental.
