10
I have been to Barsoom!

I am a man of obsessions. For months, a movie I hadn't seen was the
thing. Not Peter Jackson's THE HOBBIT, not Joss Whedon's THE AVENGERS,
not even the upcoming Sam Mendes directed James Bond movie SKYFALL
(which I'm excited about but it hasn't really sunk its hooks into me
yet)...No, it was Andrew Stanton's JOHN CARTER.My excitement was not the universal feeling. Disney advertising had
dropped the ball and the trailers seemed lackluster to most. Yet
something within directed me toward it like a compass points to True
North. There was something special about it, something just out of view
in the trailers that wouldn't let me go. I trust my obsessions, always,
but at some point I got to feeling a bit exhausted and just wanted to
know if I was right or maybe a total loon.I've now been to two advance screenings of JOHN CARTER.And? Holy Living Thark! The bar on science fiction and fantasy movies
has Officially Been Raised.JOHN CARTER is based on Edgar Rice Burroughs' A Princess of Mars --a
novel first published a century ago. I expected to come out of the
movie with my head full of comparisons to all the things Burroughs'
imagination inspired: STAR WARS, AVATAR, FLASH GORDON, etc.
Understandably so, as I'm much more familiar with all of them. That
didn't happen. Put simply, if STAR WARS is a kids' science fiction
movie franchise that adults enjoy (and it is), then JOHN CARTER is an
adult science fiction movie that kids will enjoy.CARTER is such an immersing experience. Every moment reveals something
new about Mars; about the exotic alien races and cultures that call it
home, or about their individual characters. James Cameron's AVATAR
showed us a world we've never seen before and it was wondrous to
behold, but Andrew Stanton's JOHN CARTER is a movie so rich with detail
that it left me feeling like I had been somewhere. JOHN CARTER feels
like nothing so much than as if David Lean had made a science fiction
epic of love and war set on Mars.This movie has a confidence to it you won't be expecting. It's unafraid
to linger over the characters, and give them time to breathe and reveal
themselves. My favorite decade for movies is the 1960s, and JOHN CARTER
has some of the epic adventure movies of that time running through it
like a seam of gold. There's a bit of LAWRENCE OF ARABIA in there as I
alluded to before, and perhaps a touch of ZULU and SPARTACUS is mixed
in with the Martian airships and predator cities. Old fashioned
storytelling magic and 21st century movie sorcery have combined into a
film that's a pulp sci-fi masterpiece.To the ERB faithful: please relax. Yes, there are changes from the
novel; no, they are not the arbitrary changes made in inferior movie
adaptations where the filmmaker just wants to do his/her own ideas.
Every change is made to tell Burroughs' story or reveal some aspect of
Burroughs' characters in a way more befitting a movie instead of a
novel.Going into this, I had absurdly high expectations. A friend of mine
told me he was worried the movie wouldn't live up to them and that
frankly I was starting to sound a little crazy. Well, the movie went
and exceeded my expectations. I love it, and give it a 10/10. I'm
definitely going to see it at least six times in the theater, and will
finally buy a Blu-Ray player just to watch it at home.I realize this review sounds over the top. That's just how excited I am
about the movie. Perhaps in a previous life I was an ancient Greek by
the name of Hyperboles? Anyway, see the movie. I guarantee that even if
you don't like it as much as I did, you'll see where I was coming from
with this gushing review.
