5
I miss the old Jack.

The fifth installment of the Pirates-series is by all means a step up
from the fourth. In all film-series, when a sequel is released it's
mandatory to compare it to the best one - which in this case arguably
everyone agrees is the first one. That may be unfair, but it's the
reality. Now.Pirates of the Caribbean: Salazar's Revenge does give us some
spectacular moments. The visual effects really is astonishing, and some
of the scenes is beyond anything I have ever seen before. That's
impressing. But that's not why I like Pirates of the Caribbean. What I
expect (hope) from a Pirates-film is elegant and witty dialog,
compelling sea- battles and Jack Sparrow on fire. And this last bit I
think is the biggest reason why this one fails to deliver. In my opinion, Johnny Depp has lost his way as captain Jack. And I
think that's natural, after all, it's been 13 years since he first
portrait the character. He's gotten older and that really shows. This,
combined with a really poor script, regarding Jack at least, makes it
all fall apart. Half the time he's completely drunk (really drunk, not
just usual Jack-tipsy) and half the time he tells bad jokes which
really is beneath a genius character like Jack Sparrow. The film starts on a positive note. I had good hopes that it could go
somewhere, but mid- way through the story starts to split up and it
didn't really have a good rhythm to it. In addition I think there are a
lot of characters that just don't do anything to the story or adds
humor or dynamic. The decision to bring back Orlando Bloom to play Will Turner is
fundamentally a good one, but I'm so disappointed with he's involvement
in the film. It seems Disney only took him back to promote the film and
lure old fans back for more. If he's to be involved, he should have a
major role. Javier Bardem does a good job as villain, but nothing I will remember
him by. All in all, I would say that I am disappointed. I didn't have huge
expectations to begin with, but where I thought the film would deliver,
it just didn't. Basically it's a film for the technical wizards to show
how much they can do in terms of visual effects , and they can do a
lot. It's just not what I want.
