8
Has the original version of the fairy tale gone out of style?

This movie has been very poorly understood by the public. Unlike
previous films, which seek to rewrite traditional fairy tales or watch
them from new perspectives ("Maleficent", "Ever After", or even the
animations "Brave" or "Tangled"), this film is the live-action version
of the fairy tale in its more traditional version. Therefore, we know
the whole story and very little has been changed or added. Any problem?
Not for me. I usually like original versions more than any contemporary
re-interpretations, but it seems that fairy tales have gone out of
style.One of the criticisms I saw was the Cinderella's passive attitude: the
girl was educated under values of kindness and generosity (something
our current society no longer knows) and isn't willing to abdicate
these principles in adversity. Maybe she think that would betray her
mother's memory. For our society, which treats the dead as unknown and
the living even worse, such submission and servitude is unacceptable!
The oppressed must revolt! Cinderella shouldn't serve the tea, she
should take that teapot and stick it in her stepmother's throat! Or
should she kick her feet and whine, saying "I don't do it, I'm sick of
it"? If you are reading this and you're also think that Cinderella
should revolt, then you're one more who has totally forgotten what a
fairy tale is. A fairy tale is not about reality or what we do. It's
about moral values and what we should do. And the moral teaching
conveyed by this tale is that biblical passage "turn the other cheek",
that you must have heard in Sunday School if you have frequented it.
Cinderella's tale is entirely about this! She had the courage to
silently endure her suffering and to forgive those who hurt her and, in
the end, her reward was to fall in love with a prince and change her
life. Her stepmother's punishment didn't delay: she ended up punished,
but not by the person she most offended. Moral of the story: love your
enemy and forgive, you will have the reward, sooner or later.Well, the movie is great and is absolutely true to the original fairy
tale, including with regard to costumes and sets, which are beautiful.
Unfortunately, CGI is too obvious. I would have preferred realistic
sets in proper locations rather than the green screen, which should be
used with more caution. I have seen some criticism about the large
neckline of Cinderella's dress but, in the historical period in which
the tale was set (19th century), the ball dress were usually very
low-cut. But don't complain! We see women with even fewer clothes on
our streets today and we find it natural! Lily James and Cate Blanchett
are the main actresses of the film and it is their work (as stepmother
and stepdaughter) that supports the whole plot. Blanchett,
unsurprisingly, shone with her usual charm, and the veiled but venomous
malice she had bestowed on her character. James is an actress I didn't
know but I liked to see, having done her work quite well. It's a young
actress, surely this movie isn't going to be the movie of her life, but
she left a promise of talent that may come to blossom. Helena Bonham
Carter and Stellan Skarsgård also enter the film in supporting roles
that their talent makes it seem easy.This movie will easily please all those who want to watch a movie with
the original Cinderella story. It's absolutely the same as the book our
grandparents used to delight our childhoods. However, if you've gotten
tired of it and prefer a modern version of the story this movie is not
for you.
