4
An Unexciting and Safe-played Sex Tape

Sex Tape—starring Cameron Diaz and Jason Segal as an exhausted married
couple—promises a bountiful supply of raunchiness, nudity, and sexual
jokes, judging from its countless advertisements and summaries. The
premise centers around the fact that this couple—far into their
marriage and frankly too tired from their daily family responsibilities
to return to their formerly active sex life—finally decides to shoot a
sex tape in which they present all the various sex positions that can
possibly spring into one's imagination and then some more. Suddenly,
the following morning, they discover that their little sex tape has
surfaced onto every single iPad that Segal gifted to their friends and
coworkers, including Diaz's boss (Rob Lowe). They are then forced into
a frantic race to ensure that not one of them is able to lay their eyes
on it. The premise seems to lay the groundwork for a fairly exciting and fun
comedy from the sound of it. However, once the movie quickly zooms past
the making of the sex tape (an area of great potential for sex jokes
and whatnot) and gets right into the conflict, all hope is lost. With a
title like "Sex Tape," an R rating, and an explicitly titillating
premise, you'd expect something completely different from what you
actually get, which means that you seriously feel like you've been
misled by the tricky people behind this project. Instead, the movie
plays as a traditional PG-13 comedy that's devoid of any hint of
edginess. With that being said, the film has its funny moments, but they
ultimately stem from the (intentionally) awkward and ridiculously
unrealistic scenes. Every opportunity at a clever play on the idea of a
sex tape is painstakingly passed over—even one of its actors (Rob Lowe)
who infamously produced a sex tape in the younger years of his career
isn't taken advantage of here. In actuality, the director (Jake Kasdan)
wasn't informed of the irony in casting Lowe for this picture, thereby
proving how little thought was put into excelling this comedy. On the
other hand, Lowe still remains the highlight of the entire show,
providing most of the hilarity as he portrays Diaz's surprisingly
bizarre, yet highly friendly, boss. In addition, there's a special cameo surprise waiting for us towards
the finishing act that also shines in the brief screen time available.
These two (Lowe and "special guest") overshadow Segal—who strangely
always appears as if he's stoned out of his mind—and Diaz who usually
plays the obnoxiously loud and liberally sexual type (her role in this
case somewhat differs from that description, but she has nothing to
offer here anyway). In terms of plot, by the end, it leads to such an outlandish point that
it becomes wholly embarrassing in its implausibility for all those
involved, and by then, the audience is likely laughing at the film
itself more often than along with it. All in all, Diaz wasn't daring
enough to take the same path Johansson took with Under the Skin and
refrained from any major skin exposure—Segal did more in that
department as we've come to expect after that uproariously shocking
opening in Forgetting Sarah Marshall. The humor always feels like it's
holding back, and nothing of special note really transpires in this
overall misfire.
