1
This film is delusional and pointless

Until I saw this movie, I thought Quentin was a genius director and
writer. After I saw this movie, I think he has never been a genius and
recently he went mad trying to be one. He wants me or anyone else,
disregarding the skin color that seems to be of so much importance in
US, to feel sympathy for Major and see good in his actions when he is
just a murderous son of a bitch with no moral code? And what is even
more ridiculous that he is a friend with Lincoln and President Lincoln
is more than OK with his murderous friend's feats, what's more, he
supports him, praises him, says that he is a prideful son of "black
race" and he is ought to make a change. WTH??? What kind of message is
Quentin Tarantino trying to send us? In the beginning it was going
smoothly, storm was building up, but then, suddenly Samuel L Jackson is
talking about his huge Johnson and how he made general's son to suck
it. Now, I don't even care if Jackson's character really did it or not.
Even if he lied and even if the general was the worst person to ever
live, Major becomes more of a piece of fecal mass than general could
have ever been when he provokes father of a deceased son how he made
his son suck a dick before shooting him. After this, I lost all the
respect towards Samuel L Jackson as well. I know I know, it's in the
script and you are an actor, but don't you have any self respect not to
take a major part in such a messed up movie that isn't messed up
because of its substance, but because it doesn't really have any good
message to send and ends up being Weirdo Quentin's fetishes on a big
screen? LIKE WTH? I could understand if this movie had a valuable point
to deliver, but it doesn't have any. And Quentin, it's not like every
white man has a 3 inch long dick and if they have, it doesn't
necessarily mean that you should fantasize about having a bigger one in
your mouth. That's just messed up my friend. This movie only promotes
violence and racism. You might think I am a racist, but I am not the
one who thinks blacks and whites or any other color people are of a
different races. It's just ridiculous statement that has no scientific
back up. Neanderthals where the different race for example. Not black
or brown skinned people. For me there is no race. And what is more
important, I don't care about enslaving of "black people" back in days.
My people were enslaved as well but you don't see us crying or
demanding a better life because of our ancestors who had it rough. It's
just spineless and self-disrespectful thing to do. And get over with
the "n word"(Can't write an actual word because site doesn't allow it).
One group of people using a word that another group of people "aren't
allowed to say"? Can you imagine any bigger obstacle in a day to day
relationship than that? Anyways, Quentin, the subject of black slavery
has dried out even before Django. Now it has become way more noticeable
and cringe-worthy. I liked Django, even though it had some flaws of
this sort, but this movie? This movie is a total garbage. I can't
believe it is the same person who directed Pulp Fiction. I just can't
believe it.
