3
Casablanca It Ain't

The Academy Award-winning 1942 motion picture Casablanca has become a
legend of filmmaking, almost a part of folklore, by being as perfect a
movie as is possible. A triumph of cohesion, not a scene or a line of
dialogue is wasted—every single word and frame of film points to the
climactic scene in which most of the the cast is present, all plot
lines are resolved, and all the picture's mysteries solved…and which
many film fans have memorized and can recite, word-for-word. Robert Zemeckis, the director of Paramount's Allied, apparently
believes that by fashioning his film on Casablanca, some of the magic
of the 1942 picture will rub off on his. It doesn't. And that's a
shame, because if the picture were truly a sum of its parts, Allied
would be a wonderful experience. But unlike Casablanca, the individual scenes of Allied do not add up to
a complete picture. Rather, the diverse parts of the movie look as if
they've been snipped from other, better pictures, and cobbled together
by screenwriter Steven Knight for Zemeckis to direct. Zemeckis, originally a Steven Spielberg protégé and an acknowledged
expert on older movies, gets into the spirit of Knight's script by
designing and positioning his shots in a manner reminiscent of scenes
from other popular movies. As a director, Robert Zemeckis has always
been more derivative than innovative, and any viewer who's seen Algiers
or The English Patient, or even Out of Africa or Gone With the Wind,
will likely leave Allied with a sense of déjà vu, a nagging suspicion
that he or she has seen has seen the picture somewhere else. In Allied, a crack Canadian counterintelligence agent played by Brad
Pitt parachutes into French Morocco during the early days of World War
II and makes his way to Casablanca to rendezvous with a member of the
French resistance, played by Marion Cotillard. Their mission is to do
some spy stuff together and then scoot back to London. Naturally they
fall in love. And that's just the beginning of a picture which
stretches credibility more and more with each of its passing 124
minutes. Allied is a triumph of production design and costuming, but that's
really not saying all that much. Pitt and Cotillard are attractive
people and they look swell in the picture. When you dress them up in
the smartest retro-chic wardrobe and set them loose in the trendiest
wartime nightclubs in Casablanca, they look as if they just stepped
from the pages of the Giorgio Armani catalog…although during the
daytime scenes they sport elaborate sunglasses which almost scream Hey,
we're spies! Which leads to another difficulty with Allied: The anachronisms. In any
motion picture, authenticity is essential to maintaining a successful
illusion. In Allied, that's where the seams really begin to show. Key
sequences take place during nighttime German bombing raids over London
in 1942 through 1944—yes, the movie does cover some ground. But nobody
seems to realize that the last major German bombing raids on London
occurred fairly early in 1941, before Hitler turned east and attacked
the Soviet Union. But that's incidental to a picture in which World War II is little more
than a plot device to enable the characters to participate illogically
in exciting adventures. At one point, for narrow personal reasons
Pitt's character steals an RAF airplane and dashes off to occupied
France, and then promptly upon arrival accidentally instigates a melee
between the French resistance and German soldiers.In the very next scene, Pitt astonishingly appears back in London
looking somewhat the worse for wear—exhausted and stylishly disheveled,
but without an explanation of what happened to his companions in France
or how he got back to England in such a big fat hurry. In reality, had
the officer made it back alive he'd undoubtedly have been
court-martialed. Pitt's character apparently works for an especially
casual branch of the wartime military.And in fact, Pitt's performance begins and ends with his physical
appearance and his costuming. The actor looks properly dapper and
dashing in his military uniform, and his formal attire and civilian
clothing are stylish. But any real attempt at characterization seems to
have been left behind either in Pitt's dressing room or in the
supermarket tabloids. Marion Cotillard, a genuinely talented actress who received an Academy
Award for her performance as Edith Piaf in 2007's La Vie en Rose, reads
her lines—especially the occasional subtitled French-language
dialogue—with spirit and conviction. But she seems distracted, as if
she's trying to remember somewhere else she's supposed to be. In one early scene, Pitt's character is described by Cotillard as a
poker-playing expert. As a test, a German agent gives Pitt a deck of
cards to shuffle. After a brief pause to gain suspense—Can he do
it?—Pitt's character spends the next minute or two performing card
maneuvers mesmerizing enough to make Houdini proud. But the filmmakers don't even bother to create the illusion that it's
Pitt performing the tricks. Only in the last shot of the scene, in
which the actor himself performs one clumsy little shuffle, does Pitt's
face appear in the same shot as the cards. That scene can serve as a metaphor for the entire picture. Essentially
Allied is a clumsy diversion, a sleight-of-hand trick to distract the
viewer from the fact that he's seen it all before, in better movies.
Allied is a dumb movie masquerading as a smart one. If you want to see
attractive people in stylish clothes and colorful situations, this is
the movie for you. But if you want to see a compelling, believable
drama about wartime romance, skip it. Or better yet, just watch Casablanca again.
