7
"Walking Out": Count me in.

The just-released "Walking Out" had me from the get-go. Having lived my
entire life west of the Mississippi to varying degrees, I have a
powerful appreciation and respect for the independent spirit of the
region's people together with the indigenous wonder of the land. From
its opening frame this is a chronicle presented amidst the breathtaking
grandeur of the unforgiving Montana backcountry. As such, then, I was
an instant sucker for what was to follow. It did not disappoint.Matt Bomer (TV's "White Collar") as Cal and Josh Wiggins ("Max") as
David are father and son. They live miles, and worlds, apart. Their
relationship is strained. The pair struggle to connect. Traipsing out
into the snowy wilderness, Cal aims to teach his greenhorn teenage kid
how a man properly tracks, hunts and kills a moose. But the plan winds
up going awry. Horrifically so. And now they must struggle against
nature and it's unpredictable threats to get out alive.Bomer and Wiggins are genuinely remarkable strictly in terms of the
ferocious physical demands required of each. The fact that their acting
performances are equally as notable is a bonus. With the great Bill
Pullman appearing in a periodic but pivotal role, "Walking Out" steps
up to a more than worthwhile watch.From a technical standpoint, Cinematographer Todd McMullen and Music
Director Ernst Reijseger are particularly impressive. The images
brought to us of the rugged "Big Sky Country" through McMullen's lens
(especially the spectacular aerial views) are at once primal and
magnificent. The majestic peaks, trees, rivers and streams captured on
camera are all critical elements here. Reijseger's dazzling soundtrack
is haunting, mesmerizing, a kind of modernistic mountain melody playing
perfectly with the pictures.Bear in mind that you're gonna need to be patient with "Walking Out".
Co-Writers/Directors/Producers Alex and Andrew J. Smith (twin British
brothers as it happens) take us on a journey intended to unfold
gradually, in unhurried layers, with generous investment in
contemplation and reflection. This is thoughtful filmmaking. Meticulous
effort is made to tell a complete story. A resonant narrative. A
timeless tale.The ending will strike you. Pierce you. Stay with you. This is what the
Smiths have built toward with every preceding scene. They have inspired
us to care about these two characters. In so doing, they have richly
earned the stirring emotion we feel during the final and deeply moving
moments of "Walking Out".
