2
Gets Old Fast (spoilers)

This movie seems to be confused as to whether it was supposed to be an
action movie or a comedy and fails to achieve either. It isn't really
very funny at all and it drags too much to be exciting. It has other
problems as well. The jokes try to hard to be hip and end up being just plays on
stereotypes. For example, in a misguided attempt to look cool one of
the characters punches a guy for being nerdy. The victim mistakenly
believes he was punched because he is black and gay which makes the cop
look uncool. In another example, throughout the movie the head of the
jump street program acts like a stereotypical bad tempered black cop,
even calling himself that. It is vaguely amusing the first time, but
the next umpteen times it gets a little lame as do the frequent jokes
about the guys not looking like teenagers. The visual and verbal humor
are like this through the whole movie. The movie portrays alcohol and drug use as a funny joke. It shows
scenes of the cops high on the supposedly deadly drug they are supposed
to be in high school stopping. It shows them buying booze for an
underage party and it's supposed to be funny because they have to use
false IDs. It shows them stealing marijuana from the evidence lockup to
share with the kids. I know it's a comedy not a message movie, but this
is just not funny. To top it off, they don't even get reprimanded for
any of the illegal things they do from giving drugs to minor to
engaging in a high speed chase on a freeway, to reckless discharge of
firearms, to taking further police actions when technically fired. The action is boring. The interminably long scenes of bicycle, car, and
limousine chases do not even begin to liven up this bomb. They are not
interesting. The juvenile behavior the two leads exhibit ruins any dramatic elements
of the movie. They don't act like two adults pretending to be kids,
they act more like two kids pretending to be cops. I used to watch the 21 Jump Street series and it was a serious drama
about serious issues like homosexual bullying, drugs, suicide, and peer
pressure. It may have been a little soap operish at times, but it was
dramatic and interesting. I think it deserved more respect than this.
