4
I think my expectations were too high, or this movie just missed the mark.

The Blackcoat's Daughter, originally titled February, was a film that
received quite some buzz during it's initial screenings at film
festivals back in 2015. It eventually got a quiet release in limited
theatrical screenings in February (of course) 2017 before its home
release. As a connoisseur of horror films, I was intrigued (even though I
dislike Emma Roberts) especially because despite its derivative themes
of demonic possession, the film apparently does new things with the
formula. Bought it day one and I have to say I was kind of
disappointed.In a boarding school, students Katherine "Kat" (Kiernan Shipka) and
Rose (Lucy Boynton) stay behind during school break while the other
girls leave with their families. Kat's parents don't come because they
are deceased while Rose intentionally gave her parents the wrong date,
she suspects that she might be pregnant and doesn't yet want to face
her parents about it. The third girl, "Joan" (Emma Roberts), is a
mystery as she gets off on a bus stop and is implied to be an escaped
mental patient as she removes her hospital bracelet in the bathroom.
She is soon picked up by an elderly couple (James Remar and Lauren
Holly) who mention that they are on their way to the boarding school.Watching the film I was underwhelmed because it is hollow and has no
soul. It's plenty creepy with looming hallways and dark spaces but
there's never anything here that's actually frightening. Kat is
orphaned and as a result is supposed to be metaphorically raised by
darkness because she summons a demon in the boiler room after Rose
taunts her with a story that the nuns are satanists and worship demons.
I never once got the indication that Kat was lonely, sure she looks
gloomy but she's like that for the entire movie even before we find out
what happened, she never grieves her parents and never looks lost and
desperate. She has no character arc or any semblance of a personality.
It makes it hard to believe that she'd befriend the demon out of
loneliness as a result, the demon itself also doesn't have a
threatening presence. I never got chills of dread about the demon or
what it's capable of, it isn't unnerving and almost feels like a plot
device threaded thorough the film so that the movie can exist.Rose is equally as uninteresting and hollow. Her entire character is
just her hanging out with her boyfriend and interacting with Kat for a
small conversation. I understand why she stayed behind but the problem
is that I know it but I don't feel it. Rose never once looks anxious or
panicked about the possibility of being pregnant, if you didn't catch
it the first time you would probably never pick up on it. There's also
never any friction or tension when she is with her boyfriend over the
fact that he might have gotten her pregnant. She has no arc and never
becomes involved in the plot as anything more than another plot device.
In the third act she finally has her period, much to her relief, and is
suddenly killed by a possessed Kat after she also murdered the nuns,
and offers their decapitated heads as an offering to the demon before
she is blasted with a shotgun by the police and sent to an institution.
No resolution, nothing, her death carries no meaning because she never
had any either as a character.This leads me to my next point, the "big" twist in the film is that
"Joan" is actually an older Kat after she escaped the asylum and has
returned to the town 9 years later to return to the boarding school and
is actually picked up by Rose's parents who are heading to the school
to place flowers at her grave. The glaring problems with this twist is
that it's pretty obvious. Joan/Kat is never in the same scene with the
other girls and exists in her own subplot completely separated from the
boarding school. While Joan/Kat is showering, we can see a shotgun
wound on her shoulder where Kat was shot before the twist is revealed,
she also looks extremely similar to Kat in terms of hair color and
facial appearance. The dead giveaway is that in the diner scene with
Joan/Kat and Rose's father, he reveals that their daughter Rose died 9
years earlier and shows her a picture of her before Joan/Kat heads to
the bathroom and starts to giggle before we see the driver's license of
the woman she killed and stole it from, who was named Joan Marsh.The film clumsily ends with her killing the parents in their car before
decapitating them and taking the heads to the now closed down boarding
school. She again offers the heads as a sacrifice in the boiler room
and yet nothing happens. She walks out in despair and starts to cry
uncontrollably. The point you were supposed to get was that she is
lonely and wanted the demon back, because she was exorcised by a priest
before she was institutionalized and wanted it to stay with her.
There's no raw emotions to this scene because we never got a sense of
desperation or loneliness from Kat, the exorcism scene is the only time
in the whole film she expresses her attachment to the demon. With no
emotional knowledge of the situation there's no impact.This film reminds me of Proxy, both have loosely attached events with a
scattered plot messily clashed together with no semblance or fluidity
to it. The few redeeming qualities I saw are the eerie and beautiful
winter setting, the unnerving music, and the cinematography is somewhat
creepy. But otherwise this movie is soulless and has no weight attached
to it. It's forgettable. I still recommend you check it out if you're
curious, just temper your expectations because it isn't as good as
you'd hope it is.
