2
Are you kidding me!!!!??!!

Just to be clear from the start - I'M A WOMAN! An I'd like to make that
clear because I've read and heard lots of opinions of this movie and
the general trend is that women are absolutely GAGA for it, while men
slander it. I saw this movie yesterday - I had better things to do
before :). It wasn't much different from the previous ones - nothing
really happened in the first hour. The only attempt of a good scene was
the one where Bella was kicking Jacob's ass for imprinting on her
daughter. The reason I say "attempt of a good scene" is because the
woman's lack of facial expression kills the entire effort she
(obviously) puts in the scene. Her mouth moves and tries to make her
look disgusted, but her eyebrows are frozen - Does she use botox? And
if she does, does she need to or is it just something us mere mortals
who don't live on planet Hollywood don't understand? The last half hour
of the movie - the battle scene - is OK. It gives it a bit of a kick.
The bit that actually disappointed me was the part where we find out
the battle DIDN'T ACTUALLY HAPPEN within the story. No, I didn't read
the book and wasn't expecting such a turnout. ARE YOU KIDDING ME???!!!!
THE ONLY GOOD PART OF THIS MOVE DIDN'T MATTER AT ALL in the story???
You mean I just wasted the last hour and a half of my life looking at
... nothing? I was just thinking there was a bit of character in this
whole thing, bits of actual personalities were emerging and then ...
nothing !!!???! This is what everybody was fussing about? Even the
special effects were a bit too obvious for my taste. I was willing to
get over that during the battle scene, but after that awful outcome,
HEEEEEELLL NO!! It all makes me wonder: Why is Dakota Fanning in this
movie? They didn't use her fabulous talent for anything. They should
have at least made her one hell of a bad girl, but no. They just
ignored her and decided to concentrate on miss "Ice" Stewart. So, sorry
girls, as much as I'd love to say the guys are wrong about this one,
they're not. This is one BAAAAD movie. The only movie I hated more was
"2012", and that one at least had some killer special effects.
