8
2 legs bad; 6 legs better

OK, so I will probably target the wrath of a legion of fan-boys but as
a PhD Physicist I will categorically state that much of the science in
the Marvel universe is total nonsense. For example, it requires a
certain suspension of belief that whole cities can be levitated. But
it's called "Science Fiction" for a reason, right? "Ant Man" pushes
that suspension of belief to whole new levels. The concept that a
miniaturised man, were such a thing even possible, could exert the same
moment and force as a full sized person would make Newton spin in his
grave.With these nagging doubts I watched the trailer increasingly
comfortable in my view that, (even with a free cinema pass), this was a
film I would avoid like the plague. That was until the final scene,
featuring Thomas the Tank engine, that was ludicrously and surprisingly
comical. Could it be that, like last year's "Guardians of the Galaxy",
Marvel had pulled its pompous head out of its ass and come up with an
'Avengers-lite' that could entertain a broader audience? I decided to
risk it. And I was glad I did.Paul Rudd ("Friends", "Anchorman") plays ex-con Scott Lang who is
recruited by brilliant scientist and would-be superhero Dr Hank Pym
(Michael Douglas) and his gorgeous daughter Hope ("Lost" and "The
Hobbit"'s Evangeline Lilly) to steal a jacket. (No, really). The owner
of said jacket, albeit a high-tech jacket, is businessman and all-round
bad-guy Darren Cross (Corey Stoll), with evil intent. (You can tell
he's evil by what he does to a cute little lamb - this is the worst
viewing for sheep since "Far from the Madding Crowd".) By miniaturising
Lang and securing the help of an army of ants, the stage is set for a
heist of a most unusual kind.This sounds ridiculous to even write. So why does it work? First up,
the script by Edgar Wright ( of "3 Flavours Cornetto" fame), Adam McKay
("The Other Guys"), Joe Cornish and Paul Rudd himself is as tight as a
drum, with some situations and lines that are downright hilarious. A
couple of brilliant lip sync scenes, one featuring the requisite Stan
Lee cameo, are grin-inducing pleasures.Supporting the screenplay, the three leading players pull off their
roles with enormous panache. Rudd is hugely likable, with all of the
smart-whip humour of Downey Jnr.'s "Iron Man" but with none of the
appalling arrogance. Michael Douglas, in his one outing this year,
seems to be revelling in his role and (presumably with the help of some
clever makeup and/or CGI) looking very dapper in the 1987 version of
his character. And Evangeline Lilly enters the Avenger's world with a
bang and looks very comfortable there. In an effective supporting role,
Michael Peña ("American Hustle") adds a comic lightness of touch as
fellow robber Luis. Abby Ryder Fortson also deserves special mention
(and an Oscar for cuteness) as Lang's young daughter.Whilst real fan-boys might object to the flippant nature of the film,
there are a number of clever cross-overs into the 'mainstream'
"Avengers" films, with one B-list Avenger guest star and (eventually)
an A-list appearance. And (as is common in these films, and notable as
80% of the audience stayed in their seats for the full credits) there
is both a mid-credits scene (that's a set-up for the sequel) and a
final post-credit scene that (so I'd told) is hugely significant for
next year's "Captain America: Civil War" (in which Rudd is set to
reprise his "Ant Man" role).The director is Peyton Reed, whose limited movie portfolio to date
includes Jim Carrey's "Yes Man" and "Bring it On".As I found myself thoroughly enjoying the experience, my rating,
against all the odds, is twice what I expected it to be. I can't
believe I'm saying this but I recommend you go see this for a fun
movie summer experience.
