4
CIA Agent with a PhD Can't Hide A Movie Ticket

Very entertaining ride, but disappointing when put against the early
Harrison Ford/Baldwin Jack Ryan films which took the subject matter
more seriously and were not as ridiculously CSI-Miami-ish like this one
is. Also they focused on his cunning and did not pretend he could
transform in moments from geek analyst to James Bond in Hulk-like
speed.Here are my gripes with this movie1) The infamous Hollywood cliché checklist: 9/11 Terror imagery? Check.
Boogeymen Russians even though the cold war ended decades ago? Check.
Ticking time bomb as opposed to a device that just blows up instantly
via remote? Check. Name-dropping the latest internet social networks?
Check. 2) We are meant to believe that a brilliant CIA analyst working
on top secret national security projects is unable to hide something as
benign as a movie ticket from a super secret meeting with another
"covert" agent? 3) The CIA just runs around Moscow shooting off guns,
speeding through streets, and clearing corpses from hotel rooms?
Really? 4) A plot point is that one terrorist had someone take photos
of a downtown city area for reconnaissance. As if there is not enough
free, untrackable stock images available from google maps and other
websites that show every square inch of every American city. Taking
traceable photos of a building is pointless in the new internet age. 5)
Keira Knightley's annoying face and whining. 6) The CIA leaving
national security up to a CIA analyst who was activated by accident and
his wife who didn't know he was working for the CIA. 7) A CIA analyst
who only spent a few months in battle-training suddenly sneaking around
like James Bond. 8) A pushing 60 Kevin Costner trying to be believable
sneaking around like James Bond in skull caps. Also, Kevin Costner
needed something else to do in this film other than just being Kevin
Costner. He was a generic character with no impact on the stakes or
overall climax. 9) We don't learn much about the main character besides
the usual Hollywood cliché nonsense of him being a "Patriotic, Heroic,
Genius, Faithful husband" American that has no flaws and of course was
a Veteran who for some reason knows everything. In the Harrison Ford
films at least we saw him at CIA headquarters and interacting with
bureaucrats, etc. This film was like an episode of 24. 10) OK it's a
movie, but the convenience of how many times these main characters
happen to be in the right/wrong place at the right/wrong time is
absolutely ridiculous. Not to mention the entire premise of the film
relies on layers and layers of coincidences that all depend on Jack
Ryan's life following an exact script in order to find out the terror
plan, the perpetrators, and save the day. 11) The Russian villain
suddenly realizes Jack Ryan is a history buff simply because Jack Ryan
knows the name of a painting? Come on now. Where were the exchanges in
Russian to show his linguistic skills? Just, OH, you know the name of
this painting, therefore, audience, this guy is a historian. But overall an entertaining film, however generic and should have just
been named something else, not related to Tom Clancy. Absurd but fun.
