3
I big let down.

So the year of the big Superhero movies started so well with Deadpool
and Batman v Superman, two movies I enjoyed very much, both different
from one another and I felt delivered on what they were meant to be.I was looking forward to Civil War a lot due to the love I have for
Cap's previous movie, the Winter Solder. However, this film was a
massive disappointment for me.The film starts off in Wakanda where the Avengers have tracked down
terrorists, led by Crossbones and as a result of the confrontation
between the two groups, part of a building gets blown up and people
die, which all of a sudden is a big deal. Due to that the government
wants the Avengers to be reigned in an be controlled solely by the
government, which Tony Stark is for (following a brief encounter with
the mother of a dead child thanks to the Avengers) and Steve Rogers is
against.From there on, the film is mainly focused on Tony trying to get Steve
to agree to the terms posed by the government, with no success until it
all comes to a head once both Tony and Steve create their respective
teams.Marvel took a serious storyline in Civil War and just didn't know how
to handle it in my opinion. It felt like the Russo's were caught
between making a darker movie about a serious issue and making a light
hearted comic book movie. In the end, we got a standard Marvel movie.
Nothing different or ground breaking about it whatsoever... and its
taken 13 movies to get to this point. It feels like the Marvel films
are standing still and cannot progress to the next level, maybe in fear
of the backlash from fans if they changed the formula.What the movie does well is it showcases the arguments of both Toney
and Steve well and you cant really pick a side of your own. However, we
don't really get anywhere and by the time the famous airport scene
comes about, you forget who's fighting for which team. Some heroes
don't even know why they're there! It all felt very forced.The action was great and so where the debuts of Spider-Man and Black
Panther , however the whole movie could have been done without
Spider-Man. He added no value to the story. The film had its standard
levels of humour and whilst some of the comedy was done well, it went
into overdrive once we had the inclusion of Ant-Man and Spider-Man.The only part of the movie that was heart felt was the final scene
between Cap, Iron Man and Bucky as you felt the heartbreak that Tony
had at that moment - great acting from Robert Downey Jr. However, even
that scene came about via coincidence, which was really the trend of
this film.... everything that happened was coincidental, from Tony
showing his younger self with his parents at the MIT presentation, to
the video of Bucky killing Tony's parents.Civil War was the wrong title for this movie. It should've been called,
'A Minor Disagreement'. All in all, the movie felt pointless as nothing
was achieved by the end. Everyone remained friends and the only
casualty of the movie was the least cared about character in War
Machine. The movie just felt like a stepping stone to Infinity War and
the solo Spider-Man and Black Panther movies.No doubt that this will be praised by everyone and will make a ton of
money, but as someone who appreciates movies, this one fell well short
of the mark.
