7
Fabulous story, and troubling, but also weirdly bland, despite first rate filming...

Unbroken (2014)Heartbreaking, inspiring true story, told and directed in straight up
high quality realism. There is some true intensity in the fighting
scenes, in the survival scenes on the raft, and in the prison camp with
its torture and hardship. And this is balanced by determination and
hope.If that sounds generic, in a way that fits—the movie follows some tried
and true formulas. The beginning has us with the hero, Louis Zamperini
(played by Jack O'Connell), in a big bomber heading for some targets
against Japan in WWII. As trouble begins, leading to the crash which
makes up the real start of the movie, we also get flashbacks to his
simple Italian-American childhood. This is effective, but it's
sentimental stuff. And it lets you know the kind of wholesome
intentions of the movie.There is a lot going on here, in three main sections: running,
surviving on a raft, and the prison camps. That Zamperini suffers and
endures is the point of the film, and in that way the narrative is very
straight forward. There are villains and buddies. The skies rain bombs
and the sea is full of sharks. Some people are merciless, and others
kind. But in the middle, through every turn and travail, is Zamperini.
"If you can take it, you can make it," is a mantra in the film, and
that's the message.The direction and photography were first rate…very subtle in a
spectacular way (or vice versa). It's a truly fine film, and director
Angelina Jolie (in her second feature, after a terrible first try) does
a really good job. The story, co-written by the Coen brothers and
others, based on a book by Laura Hillenbrand, is a great bit of
history, quite sensational stuff.So why did we leave the movie feeling just so-so about it all? I'm not
sure how to nicely say this, but it's really a good story, well told,
lacking some quality of surprise or depth it really needs to rise
above. As amazing as the photography and editing (and so on) are, it's
all in service to a fairly ordinary kind of story. Not that this man's
life is ordinary at all, but the way it develops and is told is oddly
routine, as narrative storytelling.Good stuff, for sure. It's a bit hard to take sometimes for its
brutality--there is a lot of graphic, personal violence--and the
Japanese camps are portrayed as truly cruel (which many in Japan object
to). But it's an impressive movie in many ways.
