10
Apatowian genius

Judd Apatow is undoubtedly directly at the centre of the USA's comedy
universe. Discovering and nurturing stars such as Seth Rogen, Jason
Segel and Jonah Hill, and with movies like Superbad, Bridesmaids and
Anchorman to his name, Apatow has earned the power to make movies about
anything he wants, starring whoever he wants. And so we have This is
40, the fourth film that he has written, directed and produced (after
The 40 Year Old Virgin, Knocked Up and the far weaker Funny People).
Starring his wife, Leslie Mann and two kids, Maude and Iris, and filmed
on the Apatow's street, this is bordering on autobiographical- even
Judd's 90 year old grandmother makes an appearance. The movie follows the story of Pete (Paul Rudd, essentially playing
Apatow) and Debbie (Mann), and their two kids, Charlotte and Sadie
(Maude and Iris Apatow) who we met as supporting characters in Knocked
Up, and whose marriage is flagging after 14 years. The story doesn't
get any more complicated than that, really. Watching as this well-to-do
family of four battles through a plethora of first world problems- they
might have to move from their big house to a slightly smaller big
house, children spending too much time on the ipad, etc- for two and a
half hours sounds like it would be agonising and boring, and yet it
isn't. The fact is that this film is so observant of the upper-middle
class to which it's characters belong, so honest about the little,
everyday struggles that they encounter, that it feels like it's real,
and real is funny. Even with hilarious supporting characters played by
Megan Fox, Melissa McCarthy, Jason Segel, Chris O'Dowd, Lena Dunham and
Albert Brooks, the real stars here are the family of Apatows, who nail
the nuances of inter-family relationships, with Maude Apatow putting in
a particularly brilliant performance as over-dramatic older sister
Sadie. This Is 40 has been unfairly criticised for over-dramatising the
problems of a rich LA family, saying that the parents come across as
mean and the kids as spoilt- but that analysis is shallow. This film
goes deeper than that, the characters aren't upset because they're
losing money, they're upset because their relationship is falling
apart, that they have secrets in their marriage, that they can't be
honest with each other. People seem repulsed by the fact that a comedy
about the rich is trying to earn the audience's sympathy- but why not?
Can a comedy only be emotional if it's about the poor? I was sure that
films like Four Weddings and a Funeral and Lost In Translation had
already proved that this wasn't the case. But just in case there was
any doubt, This is 40 is here to do it again.
