9
Very underrated movie that takes me back to my high school days

I've read a lot of mixed reviews on Paper Towns. I'm not quite sure
what all the negative reviewers were expecting. Right off the bat as I
sat down to watch the movie, I watched it entirely through the eyes of
the main protagonist, "Q", from beginning to end. Every journey, every
feeling, all the emotions, I was watching from Q's point of view. I
think that therein lies the difference for me in how much I enjoyed the
film.I would agree with those who say that Margo isn't the most endearing
character in the film, but quite honestly she's "missing" in a good
majority of it, so her screen time is limited. Even though I must say
one of my favorite scenes in the film is when Q & Margo go out one
night so Q can (unknowingly at first) help Margo exact some "playful"
revenge on some of her classmates that she felt wronged her.When Margo disappears shortly afterwards, Q sets out on a quest, with
the help of some friends, to find out what happened to Margo.
Throughout this adventure, Q never gets too high or too low when it
comes to his emotions. He pretty much stays even keeled.At the end, when he finally finds Margo by chance after giving up, he
realizes they are 2 different people headed in 2 different directions.
He didn't get depressed or devastated, he moved on, knowing at the end
of the day, there was a career path, starting with college, waiting in
the wings for him . He realizes that the only thing he could do
regarding the free spirit Margo, was let her be. I think the ending of this film was quite unique in that most films
would have had Q run off with Margo but he did not.Really a great story, seen through the eyes of Q, from the very
beginning when he & Margo were kids playing with each other, to them
growing up and growing apart, to a reconnection, to the quest to find
Margo. All this time Q has feelings for Margo throughout the movie. Is
it really Love he feels? Probably not. Maybe a close tight knit
connection he has for a friend since childhood is what I really think
he feels at the end of the day or at least what he discovers his
feelings really are.Hats off to all the cast. Great acting performances throughout by
everyone. I especially liked Nat wolff's portrayal of Q. As I said
earlier, he did a great job of staying even keel with his emotions
throughout the film.I highly recommend Paper Towns. It takes me back to my high school days
when anything goes and the quest for love was always in the air.
