5
Mildly entertaining, a double cross extravaganza, and completely forgettable.

Based on the ultra-violent comic-book miniseries by Steven Grant, "2
Guns" director Baltasar Kormákur hits all the right notes
stylistically, but comes up short on everything else. Don't anticipate
a hard-hitting drama or an edge-of-the-seat thriller because the real
focus of the movie is on the ever so slightly humorous relationship
between its two main characters: Denzel Washington and Mark Wahlberg.
Both interact well enough together, but the film falls flat when
they're separated, and sometimes it's for long stretches. However,
director Baltasar Kormákur shows a great deal of improvement over the
last time he worked with Wahlberg in the disappointing, and uninspiring
"Contraband" (2012). "2 Guns" is about a pair of undercover agents, neither of whom is aware
of his partner's real identity. Bobby Trench (Denzel Washington) is a
DEA agent and Stig (Mark Wahlberg) is Navy Intelligence, but both are
playing the role of a legitimate crook. Their mutual goal is to take
down the cartel headed by Lord Papi Greco (Edward James Olmos). Their
plan to do this, which is never really explained in a way that the
audience can truly understand, has something to do with robbing a bank
where Papi's money is supposedly stashed in safe deposit boxes. After the robbery takes place, however, it comes to light that the
stolen money belongs to the CIA and their enforcer Earl (Bill Paxton),
and he wants it back. The DEA intends to use it in a trial against Papi
because getting a search warrant would be too much of a hassle.
Naturally, our heroes end up being targets for what they know, having
to finally work together to piece together your standard
run-of-the-mill double cross extravaganza. The real business of "2 Guns" is the camaraderie between the two
bickering leads, which comes across a lot like flirting. They finish
each other's sentences, order each other's breakfast, chat about "Les
Misérables," and even have a scene where they stroll into the sunset
arm in arm. There are chases, shootouts, and explosions, but there is
nothing here you haven't seen before. With the exception of the final
shootout sequence, the cinematography rarely impresses. There is
limited amount of fun had in watching how Bobby and Stig survive a
variety of seemingly inescapable situations, but sadly the predictable
plot keeps getting in the way of all the action. The elements gel well enough to make "2 Guns" an enjoyable summer
cinematic experience. However, it is never any doubt how things will
play out, and it's nothing likely to resonate after the dust has
settled.
