9
A Golden Age-Styled Throwback to the Era of Errol Flynn

If you even have a passing knowledge of the, "Jack and the Beanstalk,"
fairy tale, then you know the story of Jack the Giant Slayer. Where
director Bryan Singer's film finds its footing and stands on its own is
that it doesn't try to reimagine the fairy tale as something darker or
more twisted, but rather makes the film like a Golden Age Errol Flynn
adventure film, such as The Adventures of Robin Hood. Jack the Giant Slayer is a very simple film in that you know who the
heroes and the villains are from the first time you see them, it's not
looking to overcomplicate the fairy tale or create surprise. The film
utilizes the archetypal characters from the Hero's Journey, just as the
original Star Wars did, and from the first moments you see farm boy
Jack and princess Isabelle, you know their motivations and you're
already in love with them. Nicholas Hoult and Eleanor Tomlinson have
very good chemistry as Jack and Isabelle, but the performance I loved
the most was Ewan McGregor doing his best Errol Flynn impression as
swashbuckler, Elmont the knight. Rounding out the cast is Stanley Tucci
as bad guy Roderick, and he's the type of mustache twirling bad guy you
remember from all those great adventure flicks of your youth.What really sells this film as a throwback to the Golden Age of
Hollywood, is that the film never takes itself too seriously and always
remains lighthearted and adventurous, with jokes even in some of the
more serious moments where Singer and company could have made it
darker. Then there's the spot on musical score by John Ottman, who
channels the best of Old Hollywood's go-to adventure film composer, Max
Steiner, with a recurring theme that is memorable and heroic. However,
what really separates this film from being like those Errol Flynn
swashbucklers, is the sheer scope of the story.A film like this could not have been made in the Golden Age of
Hollywood, and I would argue that this film could have not even been
made ten years ago, in live action at least. To effectively pull this
concept off, the film required tons of special effects to work, and
while some of the CGI work isn't always photorealistic and a little
cartoonish, all of the giants are created through motion capture
performance technology, and without it this film could not have been
realized. It's this ginormous scale that makes the film modern and not
simply a throwback to a bygone era of movie-making. Though, to assume
that Jack the Giant Slayer is so simple that it doesn't actually have
anything to say, would also be wrong.The true brilliance of Jack the Giant Slayer is the thematic idea that
ties the entire story together of how stories are told, and how stories
change over time and become myth or are taken out of context, to where
people often forget that something they read in a book actually
occurred and is the truth. I found this commentary hitting very close
to home. Whether it's history, myth, or a religious tome, many people
nowadays seem to not ever think twice about the stories that exist in
our society and refuse to believe, and Jack the Giant Slayer has me
genuinely thinking about the truths so often ignored in those stories.I give Jack the Giant Slayer a 9 out of 10!
