6
a lighthearted slapstick comedy on the shaming of stressed-out moms

The shaming of women is a global phenomenon that unfortunately is part
of everyday life. Filmmakers, media and marketing industries prey on
women's anxieties about their bodies, and motherhood is another
favourite target. While the documentary Embrace (2016) calls out body
shaming, the comedy Bad Moms (2016) calls out the impossible standards
to which modern mothers are expected to conform. Laughter carries this
message more effectively than polemic but make no mistake: while this
film is funny it also has serious things to say. The plot line is all too familiar. Over-worked mom Amy (Mila Kunis) is
always running between the needs of her spoilt two children, a lazy
husband, a part-time job, homework, school rules, and endless
extra-curricular activities. The kids are overscheduled,
over-controlled and over-indulged, and like too many parents
everywhere, the homework is for Amy. When she ditches the husband for
having a cyber-sex affair her already chaotic world nears breaking
point. That's when the pushy cabal of PTA perfect moms and yummy
mummies insist on ever-more elaborate cake-bakes. When she publicly
quits the PTA, the snobby dominatrix president Gwendolyn (Christina
Applegate) launches a vendetta against Amy and her kids. She retaliates
by campaigning for president and the internecine warfare between mom
camps escalate in hilarious ways. Deserted by the school, her nearest
friends become her emotional anchors and all give themselves permission
to party and carry on. While the story is predictable and at times
corny, the underlying issues are totally real. The slapstick comedy
softens the pointed message about just how powerless mothers are
against the onslaught of unrealistic expectations. The bigger irony is
that so many movies perpetuate the myth of the perfect mom without even
questioning the existence of the perfect dad.This film is obviously targeted directly at stressed-out moms but dads
should watch too. If nothing else, it exposes the gender inequality
that persists in parenting and the bigger injustice of 'perfect moms'
shaming other moms for not meeting politically correct standards. When
Amy gives her election speech and confesses all the ways she is a bad
mom she starts a sisterhood chorus of bad moms all needing to offload
their guilt about the things they have not done for their children.
While it's always possible to find aspects of a film that could have
been made better, this film deserves praise for going in to bat for the
most honourable profession on the planet.
