7
Any Resemblance to the Thurber Story or the Kaye Film is Purely Coincidental

Anyone expecting Ben Stiller to recycle the two principal intertexts
for this story - the James Thurber story or the classic Danny Kaye
comedy from 1947 - is likely to be highly disappointed. Superficially
the plot remains the same, with Stiller playing a put-upon employee of
LIFE magazine who is bullied by the new boss Ted Hendricks (Adam
Scott), but eventually discovers himself as a result of a
once-in-a-lifetime trip to find elusive photographer Sean O'Connell
(Sean Penn), who possesses an elusive negative needed for the final
print copy of the magazine. Needless to say everything ends happily,
with Mitty discovering to his delight that the photograph celebrates
the work of all LIFE's employees - journalists, printers, editors,
photo-staff - who made the magazine such an American institution. He
also manages to convince the love of his life, Cheryl Melhoff (Kirsten
Wiig) of the sincerity of his intentions. At heart, however, WALTER
MITTY is a story of the importance of discovering yourself, even if the
odds seem stacked against you. Walter learns to follow his
inclinations, and by doing so fulfills his mother Edna's (Shirley
MacLaine's) aspirations for him. Stiller gives a delightful
performance, his character gradually changing from one of wide-eyed
stoicism (which provokes him to daydream) into a person of quiet
strength, who is not frightened of confronting Hendricks and telling
the boss exactly what he thinks. At another level WALTER MITTY can be
seen as an elegy for LIFE magazine, that bastion of American
journalism, which has now become an online-only journal due to falling
sales and changing reader preferences. The film uses archive material
to show how it chronicled all the major events and personalities of the
twentieth and early twenty-first centuries, and how its staff (for the
most part) were dedicated to their work. It's the kind of magazine that
doesn't deserve to be taken over by superficial ignoramuses such as
Hendricks, whose principal concern is for profitability rather than
journalistic integrity.
