9
Though Frances may be undateable, the film is unmissable

Being called "undateable" is sort of like a team player being labeled
"uncoachable," not a strong recommendation. This label tags
maturity-challenged Frances (Greta Gerwig) in Noah Baumbach's
warm-hearted comedy Frances Ha, a film that has genuine affection for
its characters. Co-written by Baumbach and Gerwig and supported by an
eclectic soundtrack that includes music by French film composer Georges
Delerue and the songs of David Bowie, Frances Ha (the title is
explained in the film's final shot) is a film in which people talk and
act like real human beings, not cardboard caricatures manipulated by a
self-conscious script that "strives for reality." Though the film is
full of light-hearted energy, it does not strain to be quirky or "in
your face." It is clever because that's the way it is.Shot in black and white by cinematographer Sam Levy, 27-year-old
Frances lives in a Brooklyn apartment with her girl friend Sophie
(Mickey Sumner). She wants to be a dancer, and apprentices for a small
dance company, but seems to lack the determination to really develop
her talent. Though the exact nature of their relationship is not
spelled out (what you see is what you get), they are at the very least
good buddies who are tight. Frances says her relationship with Sophie
is "like a lesbian couple that doesn't have sex anymore," but Sophie is
not quite as attached and tells Frances that she has decided to move in
with her upscale boyfriend Patch (Patrick Heusinger).Refreshingly however, the story is not about relationships being the
necessary ingredient of a woman's self-esteem, but simply one component
of an internal growth process. Frances goes out with Lev (Adam Driver),
another under-achieving New Yorker, but her economic needs trump her
physical ones and she moves in with Lev and his roommate Benji (Michael
Zegen) on a strictly platonic basis to save on the rent, although Benji
develops a real connection with her (which Frances is blind to). She
stumbles through relationships, not making a terrific impression. One
woman tells her in talking about her friend, "You look a lot older, but
you seem far less mature." Frances does not have the kind of job
prospects that she alludes to with her friends and her overall veracity
is questionable, but she makes up for it with tons of charm. She
actually makes some stabs at shaking things up, going home to
Sacramento to visit her parents (Gordon and Christine Gerwig, her real
parents), impulsively flying to Paris for a weekend to prove to a
friend that she can, and, upon returning after a joyless weekend,
taking a job as a "drink pourer" at Vassar where she had gone to
school. Unfortunately, the more things change, the more they stay the
same.Although Frances Ha is about young New Yorkers living on the margins,
it is not and does not aspire to be a commentary on the current
economic situation or the plight of young people. The film is about
talented folks who have not quite gotten it together and whose level of
responsibility lags somewhere below the norm. The characters have their
flaws and are not always self aware, but Baumbach recognizes that the
process of growth does not happen suddenly and refuses to judge his
characters, or make snide commentaries about New Yorkers.Frances Ha does not rely on formula or relationship clichés to make its
points, but only on the performances to bring the characters to life.
Baumbach and Gerwig take us on a wild ride without any clear signposts,
yet the trip is poignant and even beautiful and we can joyously sense
the light around the next turn. Unlike the angry, unpleasant Roger in
Baumbach's previous film Greenberg, the more you hang around Frances
(Greta Gerwig), the more you grow to like her insanely. Though Frances
may be undateable, the film is unmissable.
