10
"Goosebumps" reflects the books wonderfully in a fantastic original story.

"Stephen King is no slouch," commented a member of the Movie Fan
Facebook Page staff. The man has published 60 books, which have sold
over 350 million copies. "Wait a minute," you say. "Why start a review
of a movie based on R.L. Stine's books by talking about Stephen King?"
Fair question. Well, Stine has been called "the Stephen King of
children's literature." Beyond that, you may be surprised to learn that
Stine has bested the famously prolific King by publishing hundreds of
books, which have sold over 400 million copies! Think about that. It's
enough to… give you goose bumps. That, of course, is the name of
Stine's most popular series of books, brought to the big screen in the
film "Goosebumps" (PG, 1:43).Fans of the series may wonder which of the books is the basis for the
movie. The answer is none of them – and all of them. Rather than
adapting any one of Stine's books, which are, admittedly, relatively
short (as Stephen King exclaims, "Ah-HAH! See?"), this film imagines a
world in which Stine's monsters come to life and terrorize a small
town, while R.L. Stein himself, along with a few local teenagers,
attempt to recapture the creatures and save the town. I won't spoil the
movie, except to say that, in the end, we Movie Fans get a film that is
as exciting and delightful as any of the books that inspired this
story.The film has Jack Black portraying Stine as an unfriendly recluse in
the tiny (fictional) town of Madison, Delaware. Showing Stine as a
movie character which we get to know as a man, but is only a
fictionalized version of the real person recalls movies like Charlie
Kaufman's 1999 fantasy comedy-drama "Being John Malkovich" or Matthew
LeBlanc (starting in 2011) playing himself as an adorable jerk in the
Showtime comedy series "Episodes". Black's Stine calls himself Mr.
Shivers. He's a widower who lives in a big house with his kind, but
mischievous 16-year-old daughter, Hannah (Odeya Rush), whom he
homeschools. Moving in right next door is Madison High School's new assistant
principal, recently widowed Gale Cooper (Amy Ryan), and her teenage
son, Zach (Dylan Minnette), still grieving the loss of his father.
Gale's sweetly clueless sister, Loraine (Jillian Bell) greets them with
open arms, but Zach and Gale simply have a lot of adjusting to do – and
new people to meet. Gale is almost immediately hit on by shy fellow
educator, Coach Carr (Ken Marino), while an awkward nerd ironically
named Champ (Ryan Lee) traps the new guy into a friendship. It's a good
thing for Zach that Hannah is such a pleasure to be around.One night when Zach looks towards his new neighbor's house and thinks
he sees Mr. Shivers abusing Hannah, he calls Champ and they steal into
the house. Zach and Champ see that Hannah's okay, but not before they
find a key and open a locked "Goosebumps" manuscript among many on a
shelf in Mr. Shivers' study. The book is "The Abominable Snowman of
Pasadena" and unlocking the manuscript allows a large, furry creature
to literally jump off the page. The three teens run after him, Hannah
telling them that the monster can only be re-captured by sucking him
back into the book from whence he came. The Abominable Snowman wreaks
havoc on the town until Mr. Shivers shows up to save the day.In the destruction that the creature caused in the study, all the
manuscripts fell to the floor and one of them popped open – one
releasing the evil Slappy the Dummy. Slappy unleashes complete mayhem
in Madison – on the night of a big high school dance nonetheless. The
police (a hilarious Timothy Simons and Amanda Lund) are no help, but
few people would be. That ventriloquist dummy serves as the ringleader
of a gang of dangerous and destructive creations including a wolfman, a
maniacal clown, a herd of garden gnomes and a gargantuan praying
mantis. They all want revenge on their creator for keeping them locked
up so long. And Stein is the only one who even has a chance of stopping
them. When Stine's creations come to life, besides clear memories of Robin
Williams' 1995 hit "Jumanji", this situation reminds us of Emma
Thompson's author writing Will Ferrell's character into existence in
2006's "Stranger Than Fiction", or the underseen 1979 thriller "Time
After Time" in which the character of H.G. Wells (author of the sci-fi
classic "The Time Machine") uses profits from his writing to build a
working time machine which one of his friends uses to escape the police
and continue a killing spree when it is discovered that he's Jack the
Ripper. "Goosebumps" deserves a place among these other great films.This film's story may not be completely original, but it feels fresh
and it is fantastically well executed. All of the actors are perfectly
cast (even Jack Black, who, in our opinion, seems to have had more
misses than hits in his career). With the help of a story by Scott
Alexander and Larry Karaszewski, a script by Darren Lemke and the
direction of Rob Letterman, this cast and this story hit the perfect
balance between frightening and fun – just like the "Goosebumps" books
themselves. The script is very funny and the dialog and character
interactions are charming from the very beginning to the very end of
the movie. The interesting characters, the story's danger and
adventure, along with the excitement and humor all seamlessly
contribute to a simply wonderful family film that will appeal to kids
of all ages, even if they don't know their goose bumps from their speed
bumps or their Kings from their Stines. "A+"
