9
Unique in its openness and honesty

Though Blue is the Warmest Color, winner of the Palme d'Or at the 2013
Cannes Film Festival, contains graphic depictions of sex, it is not a
voyeuristic exercise but a complex, deeply intense film that elevates
one young woman's personal struggle into a drama of universal
relevance. Adapted by Kechiche and Ghalia Lacroix from the novel by
Julie Maroh, Tunisian born French director Abdellatif Kechiche's fifth
feature looks with piercing eyes into the coming-of-age years of Adèle
(Adèle Exarchopoulos), and her relationship with the more mature Emma
(Lea Seydoux), a relationship that does not fit anyone's pictures. First seen as a 15-year-old teenager, Adèle's growing pains are
magnified by her attraction to women and she is forced to defend
herself against the bullying accusations of her high-school classmates,
even though she is confused and uncertain about her identity. Adèle's
face radiates an attractive childlike innocence and openness that is
appealing to both sexes and she does not want for friends, but her
first relationship with fellow student Thomas (Jeremie Laheurte) does
not get off the ground. Her feelings about Thomas seem to answer the
question asked by a teacher lecturing on Pierre de Marivaux's novel La
Vie de Marianne, "How do you understand that the heart is missing
something?" After being attracted to a striking looking woman with blue-tinged hair
passing by on the street, Adèle meets Emma at a gay bar, learning that
she is an aspiring artist and an individual of uncommon intellectual
tastes. The chance encounter leads to a relationship and the depiction
of an explicit sex scene that is notable for its believability and the
raw emotions that are expressed but has, unfortunately, become a source
of finger pointing in some quarters. Although the chemistry between the
two lovers is unmistakable, Kechiche makes sure that we notice how
different their backgrounds are, displaying contrasting scenes at the
home of both parents. Their relationship is openly accepted by Emma's bohemian parents who
persuade Adèle to eat oysters and drink white wine, though seafood is
the one type of food she had said she dislikes. In contrast, the nature
of their liaison is never brought up at Adèle's more working-class home
where they eat spaghetti and drink red wine. The passage of time is
seamless and we have to catch up to the fact that three years have gone
by. Adèle, now 18, has moved in with Emma and has fulfilled her
ambition to teach young children, while both families seem to have
disappeared into the woodwork.After the first blush of sexual ecstasy has run its course, however,
their incompatibility surfaces and is painfully present at a dinner
party of Emma's friends when Adèle has to play the role of servant and
gets an uncomfortable feeling about Emma's attraction to another woman.
Eventually, their social and cultural differences get in the way and
jealousy and feelings of betrayal begin to replace mutual satisfaction. Blue is the Warmest Color is unique in its openness and honesty about
same-sex relationships although we never really experience the outsider
status in society and emotional toll that such relationships normally
bring. The performances, however, are so perfect that we are never
conscious of anything except the beauty of two human beings discovering
the joys of authentic intimacy and a connection that can keep providing
enough emotional richness to last a lifetime.
