10
Wreck me Ralph, please!

Since the release of its very first trailer, a long time ago, Wreck it
Ralph has always appeared as one of the most promising animated flicks
of the year. Having seen the movie, I have changed my mind: It's not
just one of the best animated movies, it's one of the best movies (or
maybe the best) of the year. I don't like to make Disney/Pixar comparisons, but this time Disney has
outdone itself. Compared to Brave (which was good enough), Wreck it
Ralph is a very strong movie, based on a complex, fresh and original
story involving the video games world. I think this is the first step
in the process of creating an animated movie: to find a fresh,
involving idea. Every small detail, every character seems to perfectly
fit in this magical world behind one of the most diffused hobbies in
the world. This is undoubtedly Disney at its best. In Wreck it Ralph there are not boring parts, you can laugh or be
scared, be moved or even be thrilled but you will hardly yawn while
watching this movie. During the projection, I literally burst out with
laughters, as the movies presents many funny situations. It's a real
pleasure to follow the story and to enjoy every small detail present in
the movie.The characters are very 'toony' but at the same time they seem to be
real and very believable. There are no clichés or stereotypes,
everything is fruit of the ingenious minds working at Disney. For
example, if you asked me 'who's your favorite character?' I couldn't
answer because they're all great and funny. Ranging from Ralph to
Vannelope, from Felix to King Candy, every character is perfectly
portrayed. But Wreck it Ralph is not just a way to laugh and pass a couple of
entertaining hours: it's far more than that. Not only the film is full
of references to the video game world, but it contains lots of
references to movies and modern world themes. It's even full of
reflections upon life, in the typical Disney style.The icing on the cake is the ending. I will not spoil anything about
it, I will just say that it's astonishing and very unpredictable. To
put it in a funny way, I would say that it's one of the best thrillers
I've seen this year! Finally, two words for the soundtrack. Henry Jackman ost is catching
and enjoyable. In some cases, it's a mix between music and the sounds
of old 8bit video games. In particular, I really appreciated the track
'Arcade Life' and 'Arcade Ending'. The end credits song, 'When can I
see you again' by Owl city is also truly enjoyable. I think Wreck it Ralph is not just one of the best animated flicks of
the year, but it's one of the best movies of 2012. Disney has outdone
itself, I'm looking for other animated masterpieces like this one,
fresh original and entertaining.
