1
Why and How is Will Smith the star of this movie?!?!

Where to start...woe is me...where to start?!?! First I'll say I was
looking forward to this movie for a long time..like many people. All I
really cared about was of course...the resurrection of The Joker!I think Jared Leto has the kind of God given talent that can never be
taught to any actor. He was born with it, like Nicholson and Ledger
before him. So needless to say I was absolutely stoked to see what he
would do with such an iconic character. I didn't really care much about
anything else. Which leads me to say WOW! The marketing on this film
was the definition of false advertisement. There were so many interesting story lines to play with here. The Joker
and Harley Quinn with their demented love story wouldve been my first
choice. It was Jared Leto and Margot Robbie that shouldve been leading
this movie...NOT WILL SMITH! guys I can't stress enough how much i
dislike Will Smith. Guys this whole movie revolves around Will Smith
playing Will Smith in a movie where he's supposed to be playing
Deadshot.God I can't stress enough just how much he ruined this movie for me.
Basically he did his whole schtick from Hancock but threw on an extra
layer of "stereotypical hood black guy" and called it Deadshot. As an
African American..I cringed every time he opened his mouth.Sorry about my Will Smith melt down...he is just really awful.I really would've liked to understand more about Enchantress..there was
definitely not enough time to establish her at all. The "Villains" were
literally moving props whose only purpose was to slow our heroes down.Also, I'm not sure Cara Delevigne has the gravitas to really dig into
Enchantress...but I could be wrong...The fail on June Moone could very
well all be on David Ayer's shoulders. Also the CGI for Enchantress and
her movements in the final sequence were actually laughable. I couldn't
take her seriously.Diablo was the only actual Metahuman and they didn't explain his origin
whatsoever. Not in a meaningful way anyway. Captain Boomerang wasn't
terrible..not memorable either. Killer croc was there...could barely
understand anything he said...but he was there...and apparently loves
BET(GTFOH). Viola Davis was solidly cold hearted as Amanda Waller. Davis, Leto and
Robbie were the only strong points of the film and there was not nearly
enough of them.Personally, I really enjoyed Batman V Superman. I know the plot was a
bit of jumbled mess and the bat vs supes was like 5 mins long and then
there was Doomsday..ugh. But I still really liked it. There was a lot
of it that dealt to me very believable circumstances. I can't say the
same for SS...I never bought it. Not once did I sink into the story of
the characters...I was always very aware I was in a movie theater
watching the fresh prince flap his lips.To the folks at Warner Bros..ya'll need to step your game up..and do it
quickly. You cannot keep making sub par movies like this. I'm this
upset and I didn't even have to pay to see this movie. I can't even
imagine the folks that are shelling out hard earned money for the 2
hour crapfest I just sat through. Jeez man...What a waste of Jared
Leto. Save your money guys and pirate this crapfest in a week.
