5
Kick-Ass 2

Chloë Grace Moretz is still the superstar of Kick-Ass, even though the
movie is named after the superhero character played by Aaron
Taylor-Johnson. Taylor-Johnson is endearing even as his highschooler in
the green-and-yellow costume pummels the bad guys, now aligned with a
group of wannabe superheroes, led by an ex-mob enforcer (turned
born-again Christian annihilator) named Captain Stars and Stripes
(played by a demented looking Jim Carrey, in fatigues, with yellow
teeth, military hair cut, and gruff beard) called Justice Forever.
Moretz, on the other hand, promises her dad's partner (and adoptive
father) that she'll quit being Hit-Girl. So she gets involved with Mean
Girls in school, ultimately embarrassed and ridiculed by them not long
after they indicate she belongs with them. The "sick stick" incident is
one of the best scenes, particularly how the head cheerleader bitch
both vomits and diarrheas on the lunchroom floor. Christopher
Mintz-Plasse hyper-actively provides his vengeance-seeking Chris
D'Amico with plenty of asshole and wimpy rich-kid obnoxiousness. With
money, self-absorbed D'Amico buys "supervillains" (Mother Russia, in
particular, obliterates everyone, including 10 police officers!) that
will do anything he wants to prove how evil he is. The sheer hilarity
in that Chris' costume derives from his mother's S&M gear ought to tell
you just how raunchy this film can be. Kick-Ass 2 is awfully violent,
as a word of warning, even as a comic book action flick. With kids
doing most of the violence, this could be kind of uncomfortable. Even I
found the fight between Hit-Girl and Mother Russia a bit hard to watch
due to how it often looked one-sided. A fifteen-year-old being thrown
around by this 'roid Freak that seems impervious to pain and brutalizes
people far older than her could be critically held questionable.
Dismissed as action fare that shouldn't be viewed harshly because of
its comic book nature, even I was wondering if this film went too far.
I just want to say this, though: Lindy Booth is a smokin' ginger as
Night Bitch, but her treatment by Chris proves just how contemptible he
is. Christ gets what's coming to him even if he's a cretin due to his
parental upbringing. The shark tank and supervillain lair ultimately
mock how ludicrous Chris turns out to be as this evil leader of very
bad people in costume. My favorite scene involves Hit-Girl (not in
costume) unloading on a group of Chris' goons who kidnap
Taylor-Johnson's Dave while trying to keep from falling off the van
(this includes her climbing up one of the goons who is hanging from the
open passenger side door!)it is totally ridiculous, but it beats
seeing her taking a pounding from a female wrestler twice her size. The
"adrenaline shot" where Hit-Girl is on the same level as Mother Russia
sums up pretty much how taking this seriously could be unwise. Morris
Chestnut as a snuggly father type seems like miscasting but oddly
ingratiates as Moretz is susceptible to his desire to see her happily
without danger threatening her young life. The ending leads us to
believe that there won't be a third film and I think that's for the
best. However, there's plenty of blood-letting and outbursts of graphic
body assaults are common, so those desiring that will have their
bloodthirst satiated.
