5
You really should know what to expect by now

Here we goSo Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is the reboot to the ever so popular
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles franchise. Directed by Jonathan Liebesman
for some reason and produced by Michael Bay, also for some reason.. You
all know the story by now. 4 mutated turtles grow up in the sewer
raised by a giant rat who knows martial arts and trains them so they
can protect the city from Shredder. No difference in this movie.So the movie opens up in sort of a graphic novel type animation telling
the story of the turtles which I'll admit was a nice nod to the
original source material from which Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles came
from. From there we meet April (Megan Fox) who's trying to get a story
about the evil foot clan that have been terrorizing the city. She then
witnesses the turtles stop them and follows them to get evidence of
their existence. The turtles stop her and return to their master who
says they need April's help. I won't spoil why. From there they must
work together and stop Shredder from releasing a toxin on the city.I wanted simply one thing from this movie after all the crap I've seen
from it over the last few years. I want the turtles to be the turtles.
I want them to reflect how they were in the 2003 cartoon preferably. A
darker take but still humorous and likable. I grew up on that and the
80's cartoon and 1990's movies. Thank the lord I got that. The turtles
are the best part of this movie. They deliver some funny lines although
not everyone of them hit. Like you can feel that the jokes were modeled
for kids which the whole movie is basically. It's like a big toy
commercial. Or a Crush soda commercial. Or a Samsung phone and tablet
commercial. Yeeeeah lot of product placement in this movie. Very
obvious at that. Anyways as for the other characters we have April
O'Neil played by Megan Fox who was alright. I really wish they worked
on her dramatic screams though because those were just awful. We also
have Will Arnett as her camera man who I guess is supposed to be the
comic relief in this movie but literally does not have one funny joke
in the whole thing even though you can feel you're supposed to be
laughing but I didn't even smirk. It was like watching a stand up comic
bomb his performance. Splinter was an enjoyable character. You could
really see how he tied this family together.Now if there's one thing I like in a movie it's a good villain. Did I
get this? No. No I did not. Shredder has no character to him at all. In
the 2003 version of him he got all this character development and I
learned the motivation behind why he did what he did. In this he's
literally just a guy who wants to make money. Or at least help Eric
Sacks (William Fichtner) make money which is a very stupid motivation
in my book. Usually villains steal money for the purpose of something
bigger but in this.. they just want money. Which Eric already has
because he lives in a freakin castle on top of a mountain! How much
more money does he need?! Sigh.. Shredder was just so one dimensional
and uninteresting. I was so let down by this.Well what about the effects? They're actually pretty good. They did
make the turtles sweat a lot though. Like A LOT. But it looked nice so
I was happy about that. One downside is the CGI went down a little when
interacting with humans. Like in Transformers 4. Not much to say other
than those two things because I didn't focus on it much.One last thing and I know every reviewer is saying this but it can't be
said enough. The climax of this movie literally is the end of The
Amazing Spider-Man only in the day time. Seriously watch The Amazing
Spider-Man before you see this and see how similar it is. It's crazy.Going in if you know this director and producer you're not expecting
anything amazing. I went in with extremely low expectations and they
surpassed them but only very very slightly. I give it a 5.5/10. The theater had a bunch of 10 year olds who thought the movie was
amazing so at least they hit their target audience. But as a long time
Ninja Turtles fan I left disappointed and wanting a little more. If it
earns back the money maybe a sequel will be better. It won't but a guy
can dream.
