7
Not surprised that Guillermo del Toro was behind the film's production.

'THE BOOK OF LIFE': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five)Critically acclaimed computer-animated movie, dealing with Mexican
myths and folklore, about a young man who rebels against his family, in
order to win over the woman he loves. It was directed by animator Jorge
Gutierrez, written by Gutierrez and Douglas Langdale and produced by
Guillermo del Toro. It stars the voice talents of Diego Luna, Zoe
Saldana, Channing Tatum, Ron Perlman, Kate del Castillo, Christina
Applegate, Ice Cube, Hector Elizondo and Danny Trejo. In addition to
receiving mostly rave reviews from critics, it was also nominated for a
Golden Globe for Best Animated Feature Film. I found it to be
surprisingly well made and pretty entertaining (for a kids' flick).The film begins with a museum chaperone, named Mary Beth (Applegate),
taking some kids on a tour. She begins telling them stories from the
'Book of Life' and focuses on one tale in particular, dealing with a
wager made between two spirits; La Muerte (del Castillo), the ruler of
the Land of the Remembered, and Xibalba (Perlman), the ruler of the
Land of the Forgotten. They bet on which of two young boys, Manolo
(Luna) or Joaquin (Tatum), will grow up to win the heart of the girl
they both love, named Maria (Saldana). The film centers around Manolo's
journey (the most), as he fights his way through three different
worlds, to win over Maria's affection and save her.The film looks beautiful and the story and characters are a lot of fun.
The music is perfectly fitting and the voice actors are perfectly cast
as well. I really like that it's a movie about Mexican myths and
legends, for a change. Gutierrez seems like a great animator, and
director, and I'm not surprised that del Toro was behind the film's
production as well. I'm not a big fan of kids' cartoon movies, like
this (usually), but this one is pretty well made; one of the better
ones this year.Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://youtu.be/D17O2xOoOCw
