3
Dull

A nice girl, Vee, succumbs to peer pressure and starts playing an
online/social media game of dare called "Nerve." The game swallows up
all the person's social media info. A person can lose by bailing or
failing. And "snitches get stitches." A player who succeeds in a dare
gets money deposited in a bank. The dare has to be filmed with the
person's cellphone and is thus put live in the net for viewers to see.
The player goes up in rank depending on how many viewers he has. At the
end of the day two players face each other and the winner takes all.Vee's first dare is to kiss a stranger in a diner. Then the stranger
starts dancing and singing to Vee. That was his dare. Then the game
teams them up for dares, separates them, teams them back up. They have
to go to a fancy department store, put on fancy clothes, speed on the
motorcycle, get tattoos.Vee's best guy friend doesn't like all this especially because Vee and
the other guy are getting closer now. So he does some research and
finds out stuff about the guy. Meanwhile, Vee's success puts a strain
on her friendships.About an hour into the movie finally the stakes are raised. Another
contender for #1 is a pretty wild guy willing to do anything. And when
things become life-endangering, Vee's friends, who conveniently happen
to be hackers, and her mom intervene.Granted that I'm not the intended audience for this movie, I found it
to be pretty dull, even for young adults. There's not much at stake for
most of the movie. It just uses occasional POV camera-work to attempt
to inject thrills, but it doesn't succeed. The cast mainly stands out
for its big teeth but not much else. Not even relationship are made
meaningful enough. Like back in the 90s, this movie seems more
interested in trying to sell kids some music. I'll give it some points
for being fairly good-natured and not too perverse and also for it's
main point which I take it to be a warning about the dangers of peer
pressure combined with social media.
