1
Not just disappointed, I am angry.

I started going to the movies when I was about 8 or 9 years old. I am
now 71 years old. My oldest daughter and I have tried to get to the
newest movie, every weekend, for the past 35 years. When watching
movies, I never complain about the actor/actress in the movie. My
concern is the writer/director of the movie. Acting,now, is like
working at McDonald's was when I was growing up. There is so much money
involved in movie making that with a few classes, young people can make
a living in the movie industry. I have a nephew, living in L.A., that
started right out of high school working with a crew that puts "set's"
together for movies and TV. He even got credit at the end of some of
the movies he worked on. Amazing that a person can get credit for
putting furniture on and off a set.I put in my summary that I was not just disappointed in this movie, but
angry. I am not angry at the movie, the actor's, the CGI, or the
Director. I think that I am angry at the movie industry for allowing
this kind of crap to be put in the theater. I am angry, because I
actually paid money to see this piece of crap. I am angry because
Riddley Scott promised so much more. I thought that "Prometheus" was
actually pretty good,despite it flaws. It was a movie about
possibilities and that is what science fiction is for. The
possibilities ended when the mentally Ill android, destroyed the
Engineers. I am now done with this series of movies, there is no more
story to tell. A mentally ill human (Weyland), created a mentally ill
android (David), who created Xenomorphs that kill humans. That's it
folks, the story is over,no need for two more pieces of crap like this.Thanks to Alien Covenant, I am done going to the movie theater. I will
not pay another dime to go to the theater. We movie lovers are being
abused by the movie industry. I have told you a better story in less
than a thousand words then this piece of crap told anyone on planet
earth. Ridley had 97 Million dollars to tell us a better story and he
didn't. If you have not paid to see it, don't pay to see it. Wait until
it comes to your steaming device and see it for free. That way you
can't be disappointed or angry. Please forgive the rambling.
