10
A Triumph!

For almost two years since I first heard whisper of Pacific Rim, I've
been excited on a level I don't recall being excited about since I
first heard about Independence Day. As the gradual feed of new footage,
posters and trailers began to be unravelled at the beginning of this
year, I was buzzing like a fly trapped inside a jar until finally the
IMAX experience was upon me last night.I could sum my thoughts up in just three words - holy, f**king and s**t
- but I need to put it in more articulate words that that.Sometimes though, what you want to express is difficult when existing
words don't quite measure up. So invented a new word which is actually
a portmanteau of several words.GARGANTEPITASTIC!Yes. The scale of the monsters and fighting machines is GARGANTUAN! The
concept and theme of the film is truly EPIC! And the whole thing is put
together with such skill by Guillermo del Toro that the end product is
nothing short of FANTASTIC!Really, I think this may be the most enjoyable film I've seen at the
cinema since Independence Day, maybe even ever? It's brilliant, and
totally matched my expectations, and in the case of the actors, even
exceeded them.When faced with the prospect of a film about giant robots versus giant
monsters, it's difficult to look past giant robots and giant monsters,
but spare a thought for the comparatively ant-sized humans of the
piece. Unlike the classic TOHO movies where the people are generally
just there to run away and point and look up, the people of Pacific Rim
are integral to the story and play a major part. Charlie Hunnam is
ruggedly heroic as the Jaeger (giant robot) pilot coaxed back from
retirement by Idris Elba, almost presidential in his role of
authoritarian, who himself channels Independence Day's Bill Pullman
speech to rapturous approval.The first ten minutes is enough to sink it's hooks in, and by the time
the Jaeger's take on the Kaiju (giant monsters) full force, it's
delirious eye candy light years ahead of most action scifi
blockbusters, with possibly only the likes of James Cameron or Peter
Jackson coming close to being capable of realising on- screen what del
Toro does here.This is a thoughtful, loud, spectacular, engaging and incredibly
impressive example of where a quintessential summer blockbuster ticks
every single box. Then draws some more boxes and ticks them as well. As
soon as the end credits rolled I immediately wanted to see it again,
and I honestly can't remember the last time that happened.I can't recommend Pacific Rim enough, and if there was a way to add an
extra star to this rating then I would.
