6
VIEWS ON FILM review of Home Again

"Home again, home again, jiggety-jig". Oops, wrong movie. I'm just
talking about Home Again, the 2017 vehicle starring the justly
adorable, Reese Witherspoon. In truth, if you like a romantic farce
mixed with the ins and outs of making it in Hollyweird, then "Again" is
the flick for you. Home Again's blithe story is as follows: Witherspoon stars as Alice
Kinney. She's a 40-year-old mother of two and has been recently
separated from her record producer husband (Austen played by Michael
Sheen). Kinney, the daughter of a famous movie director, moves back to
Los Angeles to live in her father's old house. One night, Alice goes
out on the town and ends up partying with three aspiring filmmakers who
are much younger than her. They all stagger back to her abode and she
reluctantly plays the cougar role. She hooks up with one of them in
27-year-old Harry (played by Pico Alexander). All three gents find
themselves living with Alice because they are broke and are waiting for
their big, Hollywood break. So OK, I'm not gonna beat around the bush. Home Again feels like a been
there, done that version of Something's Gotta Give. You could also
throw in elements of 2009's It's Complicated. It all makes sense.
"Again's" helm-er is Hallie Meyers-Shyer and she is the daughter of
Nancy Meyers. Nancy as most of you know, is responsible for Something's Gotta Give
and that was a big box office hit. Meyers-Shyer is an admirable
director but heck, she doesn't want to be her own person here. She'd
rather emulate her mother who happens to be one of Home Again's
multiple producers. The result is a sort of lightweight, situation
comedy whose screenplay doesn't always ring true. I mean, is Michael
Sheen's estranged husband really that bad of a guy? And does Pico
Alexander's Harry really deserve to be put out by Alice just because he
missed one supper date? At times, "Again's" pseudo love story kind of
comes to fruition. During other times, it feels a little unfinished and
hoax-like. Take for instance Home Again's cutesy ending. It left me
teetering on the edge of something. Of what I'm not quite sure. Now Home Again and Something's Gotta Give have the same background
music and the same happy happy stature. Basically, they are the
cinematic equivalent of nurtured buttermilk. Both films also have
scenes where people are always smiling, always laughing, and always
having relaxing family dinners. I mean even when a character gets
punched in the face (towards "Again's" third act), there's still a
sense that everything is gonna be okay. In conclusion, Something's Gotta Give excels in its emotional sequences
between Jack Nicholson and Diane Keaton. Home Again doesn't quite reach
that feat. Reese Witherspoon sort of resembles the Keaton trouper but
she is not given enough script material to shine. Remember when Diane
Keaton got nominated for an Oscar with "Give"? Well Witherspoon is
definitely not gonna get to that plateau this time around. Bottom line:
There are some feel- good moments within "Again" but it's still a two
and a half star rating for me.
