1
Why was this a thing once?

So I finished watching all 4 Hunger Game movies and my overall
impressions of them is very negative. Like any typical teen oriented
story it has an evil government, and pretty looking teenagers who are
constantly victimized for cheap feels.It gets worse by having a setting that makes no sense in the way it is
run. Why do the rich need the poor when they have technology that can
materialize anything they like? And don't tell me that it's a plot
device and you should accept it as it is. It's a legit reason of why
this whole thing shouldn't exist.Although they try to make it seem like the capital is keeping the
districts under control through the hunger games, so its citizens can
keep living in luxury, it ends up being more like they are torturing
innocent people because they have all their needs covered and are bored
out of their minds.Why are they even randomly selecting the participants when someone can
simply volunteer to take part in the tournament? He can be preparing
all year for it, thus maximizing the chances of success while making
the games more exiting, instead of being some worthless cry-baby.Most of the second movie was a complete waste of time. The next hunger
games was a troll, since despite the buildup regarding previous winners
facing each other, almost everybody died out of screen before the whole
thing is interrupted and rebellion breaks out. They could have skipped
it entirely and nothing would have changed.The third movie tries to make things gray by presenting both sides
equally devastated by the civil war. Using the main heroine for
propaganda while making her doubt the sacrifices that need to be made
for a future that might not be better without the capital was actually
a good concept.And a good concept is all it was since eventually the bad guys are
still clearly bad. They bomb a hospital full of civilians, they mind
control innocents to be their agents, and their leader is laughing
satanically when everything is going according to his evil master-plan.Also, the last specs of realism went to hell, when the heroine destroys
two airplane bombers with a simple bow. Something hundreds of others
couldn't do with machine-guns. And don't tell me that just because we
see it happening means we should accept it as possible. There is no
logical explanation behind all this besides a lazy attempt at making it
cool.Besides the last 15 minutes, the final movie was again a waste of time
filled with magical booby traps and elementary politics. It left me
bored and angry, it's yet another example of why casuals have no
critical thinking at all for loving such ridiculous books. But then
again all it takes to call something mature and deep, is to have pretty
children being tortured and killed by evil adults. Hooray for quality
in writing.
