10
Spidey's back & he's better than ever.

Spider-Man: Homecoming continues with the adventures of Peter
Parker/Spider-Man(Tom Holland), following the events of Captain
America: Civil War(2016). Peter juggles his high school life & his
crime fighting life, as Spider-Man. He has help from Tony Stark/Iron
Man(Robert Downey Jr.). Peter's life gets complicated when Spider- Man
faces his most formidable adversary yet, Adrian Toomes/Vulture(Michael
Keaton). Now, it is up to Spider-Man to stop the Vulture, before it's
too late. Spider-Man: Homecoming is a spectacular film. It is the best Spider-
Man movie, yet. Director Jon Watts makes sure that the audience sees a
different side of Spider-Man, that wasn't seen in any of the previous
big screen incarnations of the character. I love the fact that the
focus was on Peter Parker's high school life, this time around. The
action set pieces are awe-inspiring. The Washington Monument scene, the
Staten Island ferry scene & the climax are the highlights of the film.
The visual effects are mind blowing. The 3D is eye-popping. I love the
fact that we get to see Spidey's iconic red & blue suit from the
comics, complete with the web glider & expressive eye visors. The
background score by Michael Giacchino sticks with you, long after the
film ends. The performances make the movie, flawless. Tom Holland is
the star of the show, as Peter Parker/Spider-Man. Holland portrays
Peter Parker's awkwardness & vulnerability & Spider-Man's wit &
flexibility, with ease & panache. Michael Keaton is outstanding as
Adrian Toomes/Vulture. Keaton's Vulture is the best villain in all six
standalone Spider-Man movies, along with Willem Dafoe's portrayal of
Green Goblin/Norman Osborn. Robert Downey Jr. is great as Tony
Stark/Iron Man. Marisa Tomei is brilliant as May Parker. Jon Favreau is
superb as Happy Hogan. Zendaya is awesome as Michelle. Jacob Batalon is
fantastic as Ned. Laura Harrier is excellent as Liz. Tony Revolori is
hilarious as Flash. Donald Glover, Bokeem Woodbine, Hannibal Buress,
Kenneth Choi, Martin Starr, Michael Chernus, Michael Mando, Logan
Marshall-Green & Jennifer Connelly are good as, Aaron Davis, Herman
Schultz/Shocker #2, Coach Wilson, Principal Morita, Mr. Harrington,
Phineas Mason/The Tinkerer, Mac Gargan, Jackson Brice/Shocker #1 &
Karen/Suit Lady, respectively. The Marvel Cinematic Universe can do no
wrong. I can't wait for Spidey's return, in Avengers: Infinity
War(2018). Spider-Man: Homecoming is a must watch, for everyone. Swing
by your favorite theater, immediately!
