6
Nerve

I found the central concept of Nerve ingenious, and it seems
unbelievable that something like that doesn't already exist. However,
the screenplay (based on a homonym novel by Jeanne Ryan) loses
credibility with an alarming quickness, making the provocative ethic
dilemmas of the game become a series of whims designed to generate
drama and suspense which rarely feel authentic. Nevertheless, Nerve
didn't bore me due to the dynamic direction from Henry Joost and Ariel
Schulman and the adequate performances from Emma Roberts and Dave
Franco. However, as I previously said, Nerve gets increasingly
improbable with every new detail revealed. To start with, the game
doesn't seem economically sustainable; its creators give away hundreds
of dollars, and they must keep a considerable technological
infrastructure to satisfy the clients (I guess so), in exchange for
relatively cheap subscriptions. And, well, let's not even deal with the
theme of the game legality, its omnipotent "data mining" algorithms and
the total absence of cops during the most spectacular "feats" of the
players (except when they are necessary to complicate the plot,
naturally). But even leaving aside the huge logical holes and
technological exaggerations, the main problem lies on the reaction the
main characters; instead of being realistic characters trapped into an
unusual situation, we have pre-fabricated puppets to fill in the
requirements of the screenplay. I guess I shouldn't be surprised; a
visit to Amazon confirmed the fact that Nerve is based on a "young
adult" novel... in other words, it competes in the same market as The
Hunger Games, The Maze Runner, Divergent, I Am Number Four, Beautiful
Creatures, The Host (2013), The Giver, Warm Bodies, Blood and
Chocolate, Jumper and other ones which borrowed fantasy, science
fiction or horror concepts in order to add them to simpleton tales with
obligatory romantic tangents and wide doses of juvenile drama. Anyway,
taking it on its own, I found Nerve moderately entertaining but
forgettable, appealing to the digital obsessions of the juvenile
audience in order to "connect" on a more emotional level (we already
know that life experiences are valid only if they are registered on
video or some shape of social network). And we were complaining about
Pokemon Go...
