9
Morally ambiguous characters in a deceptive, complex thriller plot

In "Side Effects", Emily (Rooney Mara) is feeling hopeless, suffering
from prolonged effects of abandonment issues, unsure how to proceed in
her life. Her husband, Martin (Channing Tatum) has just come home from
prison, serving time for insider trading. But Emily doesn't know what
she should be feeling; Emily doesn't know how to feel what she should
be feeling. Psychiatrist Dr. Jonathan Banks (Jude Law) is exactly what
the doctor ordered.For those of us who watched "Contagion" (2011) and wanted to focus only
on Jude Law's morally ambiguous blogger, Alan Krumwiede, we have
finally gotten our wish. Law's morally ambiguous Dr. Jon Banks and
Mara's psychologically ambiguous Emily are the only two main
characters. There is only one story to follow.It starts off with some strange camera angles (Steven Soderbergh
serving as his own director of photography as he has for the majority
of his films) but then settles down as a thriller, or what will become
a thriller once we get to know the characters better. Emily has tried
many antidepressants in the past but most leave her with undesired side
effects: nausea, dizziness, or lack of a sex drive. Won't Dr. Banks
please prescribe her something different? Sure, how about Ablixa, the
new medication which Dr. Banks is being paid to try out on patients.And although we now think we know in which character evil lies, we do
not. Dr. Jonathan Banks is singularly the most complicated,
interestingly created character in recent times. He's modern, selfish,
compassionate, professionally-oriented, family-oriented, has respect
for the legal system, and will go to extremes to distinguish between
right and wrong. He's the focus of this character-centric, film noir
thriller which uses Mara's Emily as the vehicle for the plot.A crime is committed. It's bad, really bad. But the question is not who
did it, the question is, who is guilty? In answering that question the
film weaves from deception through twist to deception, never ceasing
our questions of what is morally right, what is morally wrong and who
is guilty? The screenplay is incredibly well-written, creating
characters that amaze us, disappoint us and deceive us all the while
being a part of an interesting and complex story. The dialogue fits
with that theme, using words like "hopeless" to tie multiple characters
together - conceptually not physically.It's more of an edge-of-your-mind thriller rather than an edge-of-your-
seat thriller. Never really scared, always questioning the moral and
psychological behaviour of these characters. The ending takes some
strange, sexually-charged turns, and perhaps a bit more conclusive than
I was originally expecting, but don't worry, you can still question
where the line is between right and wrong and when each character
crossed it.
