4
Worse than Batman v. Superman

Trying to keep up with the plot of this movie is like chasing a moving
train. Except even when you think you've caught up to it, you're not
sure you want to get on board. As someone who went into this movie with tempered expectations thanks
to negative critical reviews, yet also hope it would have some
redeeming moments due to the overall positive IMDb user reviews, I can
honestly say that the critics may have won on this one. Suicide Squad has a number of issues, but is not a total loss for comic
book fans. The performances by the actors is not what stops this film
from being a success, but it doesn't stop their characters from going
in the wrong direction. 1. THE PLOT: The plot was pretty much a mess. This was a common
complaint about the Batman V. Superman movie: the plot defied logic and
had too much trivial sub-plot due to the amount of characters. Suicide
Squad runs into a similar problem. I feel like they compensated logic
to simply include scenes that would satisfy comic book fans, however
it's at the sake of the film's success as a whole. Nothing is ever
explained that you want explained. And somehow the movie is a confusing
blend of predictable yet unclear. I found myself constantly asking "Why
wouldn't you just do____?" 2. Not enough screen time for the other squad members: The rest of the
squad (Other than Harley and Deadshot) are not fleshed out well. And
the movie's feeble attempts to add background, dimension or complexity
to the characters fails, with flashbacks and random monologues that
don't elicit any sort of empathy from the viewer. I found myself easily
not caring about the squad or its success at all. (Example in point 6)3. PACING: I think the attempts to flesh out the characters failed also
because of the way the movie is paced. It's about 2 hours, yet feels
like a 30 minute movie. Scenes jump around quickly and what they do
choose to drag out (flashbacks amongst other things) may be fun to
watch but is unnecessary. 3. Overuse of Music: A little more nit-picky, yet nonetheless something
I noticed. Now I'm for every character having a cool theme, and
soundtracks are great but... Suicide Squad utilizes loud, distracting,
CONSTANT music... over dialogue, over key scenes.... music accompanies
everything. Or at least that's what it felt like. Don't get me wrong
sometimes it works. 4. THERE ARE NO STAKES INVOLVED WHEN YOU'RE FIGHTING MONSTERS MADE OF
GOOP: I worried about the antagonists of this movie when I saw the
trailers. None of the fight scenes have any real tension or meaning,
because of the type of monsters their fighting. Faceless, CGI, magical
goop. 5. Uneven Dynamic of Power: This is a big issue I have with the movie.
A lot of the characters seem extremely unnecessary and frankly
misplaced, due to the disparity of power between all of them. In Batman
V. Superman, people worried about how Batman would stand next to
Superman, Wonder Woman and Apocalypse. In Suicide Squad it just felt
wrong that a girl with bat and a guy with a boomerang were even within
two feet of a guy who can breathe fire and a woman who can tear a hole
in the sky. You simply don't believe Harley, for example, is needed in
the group, which throws the logic of the film out of wack. Or that her
bat can rip apart monsters, when Waller's bullets don't pierce them or
Katana's sword. Not sure if this is a popular opinion, but the thought
definitely occurred to me. 6. Katana : Out of all the characters in this movie, Katana's character
was the biggest wasted opportunity (Boomerang is a close runner up).
I'm not too familiar with her character in the comics, but I've looked
up a couple strips and she's speaking English. THEY FREAKING SUBTITLE
HER IN THE MOVIE. She can't even communicate with the damn squad. She
could have been a character that could bond with them and be pretty
cool, but she's reduced to a non-English speaking, body guard. And the
film's attempts to humanize her couldn't be more ineffective. I had
hoped this character would be utilized stronger and better.7. The Joker : I never thought I'd say this in my lifetime, but this
film should not have included the Joker. He should have full gotten his
own movie or only been in certain scenes. Jared Leto does a great job,
and he's definitely a scene stealer. In fact, I could see people
leaving this movie thinking he was the best part or the only redeeming
quality (Which in my mind is actually Will Smith), but I did enjoy
watching the Joker. But his appearances made no sense in the context of
the plot and felt fairly forced and random. I was expecting complex
schemes from him or maybe an interesting sub plot, but that's not what
I got from the movie.8. Still Fun to Watch : The movie with all its faults is nonetheless
fun to watch at times and the performances aren't bad. There are
particular moments that I think are done well or include nice cinematic
details. Batman v. Superman is overall a better film, but Suicide Squad
is definitely more exciting. In conclusion: It was difficult to keep this review fairly spoiler
free, but I think I did it. Suicide Squad may become your next "guilty
pleasure bad movie" film, but I think the average viewer will
definitely find the film to be subpar. I did, and I hope this review
helps you.
