1
"The Green Inferno" – Even Worse Than We Anticipated

This is a review from the human rights and environmental NGO, Amazon
Watch:Publicity for "The Green Inferno," the latest film by "torture porn"
film director Eli Roth, left our team at Amazon Watch in disbelief that
anyone thought making a film based around the retrograde stereotype of
the savage cannibal indigenous tribe was an acceptable idea in 2015.
The premise was so racist that within Amazon Watch, we debated whether
to denounce, deride, or simply ignore the film.Eli Roth helped make the decision for us. In an exchange on Instagram
with an incensed activist, he defended the film in part by claiming
that "Amazon Watch saw the film and loved it!" Extraordinarily, his
response was effective in momentarily defusing outrage about the film.In fact, Roth was either lying or simply misinformed – at that point we
had definitely not seen the film. We were, however, able to put
together an exhaustive plot summary based on reviews, YouTube clips,
and conversations with people who had seen advanced screenings. In the
end, this summary did accurately represent most of the elements of the
film. Based on that analysis, our esteem of "The Green Inferno" was
indeed that it was offensive and racist.In addition to issuing our own initial statement against the film, we
supported statements made by indigenous activists both in Peru and here
in North America.Still, doubts persisted about the veracity of our critique given we
hadn't seen the film. So last night we went and sat through it. And
now, on the occasion of its national release, we can definitively say
"The Green Inferno" is indeed racist, just plain absurd, and frankly
not particularly scary.What are our key take-aways from "The Green Inferno"?The inherent racism of an Amazonian cannibal movie is on full display.
A false stereotype of the animalistic and brutal indigenous savage is a
central conceit of the film. Other than the fake name of the tribe, no
indigenous person has a name, nor says anything intelligible, nor is
otherwise humanized – the one exception being the young girl who
miraculously transcends her people's mob mentality and liberates
Justine. The experience of the white people, who have names and
motivations – as shallow as they might be – is entirely central to the
plot. The degree to which the film evokes any emotional response, it's
supposed to be some kind of horror at harm befalling the gringos. In
dialogue between the activists, there are various references to "what
they are doing to us." This is a classic example of othering.Roth's portrayal of activism is absurd and cartoonish. Ostensibly, the
film's social subtext is a critique of "slactivism," inspired by what
Roth apparently observed around phenomenon like Occupy Wall Street and
Kony 2012. But, as numerous reviewers have noted, "slactivists"
wouldn't travel to Peru and carry out a direct action in the middle of
the rainforest. The extreme naivete or venality of members of this
group reaches caricature proportions. In all, it's not a serious social
commentary, between being incoherent and hyperbolic. Unfortunately,
this makes it all the more pointless, because there are cogent
critiques to be made of well-meaning but clueless activists who
ultimately do more harm than good, protected by their privilege from
paying any consequences – like Roth himself..There are some real-life issues illustrated in the film, but to such
exaggeration that any prospective value in raising awareness about the
Amazon is completely lost. Yes, there are gas and other extractive
projects in the Amazon menacing indigenous peoples within their own
territories today. But the lethal threat is generally not armed
mercenaries that will shoot indigenous natives, instead risks posed by
foreign disease or adverse health effects from pollution are far more
likely to have an impact. Yes, Amazonian indigenous peoples tend to
resist unwanted incursions into their territories, but they don't
systematically mutilate and murder the invaders. In the overwhelming
preponderance of cases, indigenous peoples defend themselves through
nonviolent and often sophisticated means using lawsuits, protests, and
their own media campaigns.A little over a month ago, Roth claimed that he "made "The Green
Inferno" to spark discussion and bring awareness to the devastation
these tribes face at the hands of corporations." The belated expression
of attempted social relevance smacks of opportunism, especially coming
on the heels of several strong criticisms from indigenous peoples
themselves. Beyond the collaboration with Mongabay, the practical
utility of which remains to be seen, how is the film actively "sparking
discussion"? We've only seen a slick online marketing campaign, and
have to assume those comments were a disingenuous tactic therein.Having now sat through the film, we continue to support the concern
that "The Green Inferno" – assuming the publicity and film itself are
widely seen – could cause far more harm than good. It contributes to a
generalized public perception of Amazonian indigenous tribes as
primitive and savage, in the absence of countervailing information
within the collective consciousness. In Peru, that perception would
reinforce existing prejudices against indigenous peoples, potentially
enabling the government's current push to carry out controlled contact
with isolated tribes such as the Mashco Piro. This new policy is
extremely controversial and has been strongly condemned by indigenous
people's organizations as a dangerous precedent. "The Green Inferno"
didn't create that problem, but could potentially exacerbate it.One saving grace might be that the inescapably ridiculous nature of the
film ultimately condemns it to a marginal audience, as buzz generated
by the publicity campaign is rapidly eclipsed by negative word-of-mouth
from viewers.Our prediction? "The Green Inferno" will bomb at the box office and the
rumored sequel, "Beyond The Green Inferno," will be shelved
indefinitely.
