3
It's almost as though they made a terrible movie on purpose.

Beware people, this is an early review. Being a member of a media group
I caught an early screening at the Amc. I was not required to sign an
NDA.Point Break is a bafflingly unsolicited remake of the 1991 cult classic
of the same name. It is directed by Ericson Core, a good filmmaker who
directed the 2006 Invincible, a film which is criminally underrated.
When I found out that Point Break was being remade I shuddered in fear,
but I when I learned that Core was directing the film, I immediately
changed my tune, as I hold Invincible in such high regard, as it truly
is an under appreciated film for the ages.Point Break 2015 is grotesque. I am not inherently adverse to remakes and reboots, and I am not at all
a purist, I am perfectly fine with rebooting material and straying from
source material if it serves the story well. What had happened here is
that the studio has produced a garden variety action movie and slapped
a name on it purely for the sake of brand recognition.The film exceeds expectations in the sense that this a slickly produced
action film with a completely rad soundtrack. The camera work, framing
and editing leave everything on the proverbial field. There isn't
anything new going on here, but it's produced in a professional manner
and the action scenes are handled with extreme care.And along comes the story, instead of our group of guys pulling bank
jobs to fund adrenaline junkie lifestyles, the action men of 2015 are
self aware crusaders, too cool for school, hipsters on a self imposed
mission from God. Every character in this film is ball- kickingly
annoying. The problem is that not one of the main characters are in
possession of a redeemable quality and their motivations are completely
nonsensical, they are all essentially unknowingly pseudo intellectuals.If this movie had been titles virtually anything else I may have given
it a 4 or 5 out of 10, rather than a three, though the unnecessarily
and intentionally sanitized PG13 vibe completely disrupts any potential
the film may have had in the first place.It's not good, it stinks.No sir, I don't like it.
