4
The Matrix + The Terminator + Back To The Future (with Mutants)

I won't disparage anyone for what they find enjoyable. Everyone is
entitled to their opinions. That being said, here is mine...The hallmark of an intellectually insulting film is when, early in the
movie, each of the main characters stands around in a single room
reciting one-liners that give away the entire plot. That happens about
five minutes into Days of Future Past and serves as a staggering
reminder that this ultimately is a movie for kids.Along the same vein, it would take the film watching experience of a
child to not recognize that DOFP is basically an unoriginal mash-up of
better films that came before it (the most obvious ripoffs being Back
to the Future, Terminator 2, and The Matrix).In fact, DOFP is nothing more than a mutant version of Back to the
Future, with fewer memorable lines, mediocre acting (save for the
always excellent Michael Fassbender), without the classic soundtrack,
and with no real villain.**Spoiler Alert** Plot Synopsis: The Matrix, I mean, DOFP, starts with
the all-powerful Sentinels having basically destroyed civilization and
terrorizing the mutants who remain in Zion, I mean whatever city they
live in. Withing five minutes, we find out that a mutant has the
ability to allow others to time travel, but that the farther back in
time someone travels, the more difficult it is for Ellen Page to hold
it all together. Of course, Wolverine is the only one who is strong
enough to make the trip. Why are they time traveling? The Terminator, I
mean, Wolverine, has to see to it that Sarah Connor, I mean,
Raven/Mystique, doesn't kill The Brother From Another Planet, I mean
Joe Morton, I mean the guy who creates Sentinels. What else happens in
the movie? Nothing of consequence. A lot of running around, chasing,
breaking into stuff, and a melodramatic half love-story involving an
apparently alcoholic, depressed, and pathetic Professor X and Mystique.Surely someone out there understands my POV. Again, I respect
everyone's opinion, but when I googled DOFP after seeing it and saw a
8.7 rating on IMDb (plus a 91% of RT), my eyes almost fell out of my
head.Background/Disclaimer: I did not grow up reading comics. I occasionally
watched, and enjoyed, the X-Men cartoon of the '90s. I have seen X-Men
(really good), X2 (amazing), The Last Stand (disappointingly awful),
and portions of First Class (no opinion).
