6
Jessica Chastain is the only good thing about this

"Mama" concerns two young girls abandoned in the woods by their
murderous father, who went on a killing spree following an unexplained
financial crisis. His story is never really resolved, and its point is
only to deliver the girls to the woods. The girls take refuge in an
empty cabin and are overseen by a protective spirit. They are found
later by a doctor in a feral condition and taken in by their uncle and
his edgy, band member girlfriend (Jessica Chastain), who is reluctant
to take on any kind of parental role. We soon find out that the spirit
of "Mama" follows the girls and is protective and jealous of any other
parental figure in the girls' lives. After the uncle is injured after a
fright from the spirit, Chastain's character has to take on the role of
sole protector, and comes to find affection for the girls. The arrival
of Mama's spirit is heralded by moths, whose symbolism is never quite
clear, though perhaps they represent reincarnation.This movie started out as averagely good PG-13 horror. There are no
false scares in the movie; all the jumps have payoffs. Chastain's
character is well-drawn and I'm impressed with her ability to transform
physically and sink emotionally into a role. Her role might be
appealing to women who are sick of seeing brain dead maternal type
women as caretakers in horror movies.Soon, however, a lot of the plot devices become laughable. Flashback
scenes do not quite make sense and are filmed in a bizarre jerky
daguerreotype style that made the preview audience laugh. A throwaway
librarian character (a harbinger, if you've seen Cabin in the Woods)
gives a ridiculous, melodramatic speech about ghosts and their
unresolved conflicts that prompted unintended laughter. There are
logical inconsistencies as well. Upon the discovery of the girls (five
years later, we are told), it appears that the crashed car is just
yards off of the main highway and the cabin not too far from that. The
cabin has some modern touches that lead us to believe it is not as old
as the spirit that inhabits it. There is a scene of possession of a
minor character that is very poorly handled and finds no great
resolution. And, typical for horror, it seems whenever the characters
go in to search the cabin it's always the dead of night.I will not describe the ending, but many people will feel cheated and
offended at the vagueness and lack of satisfactory comeuppance. Some
may feel we've followed the story for nothing, or have been lead to
sympathize with the wrong characters when the movie wants us to follow
other characters' trajectories.All in all, I'd wait to stream this one and skip paying for it
theatrically.
