7
Life of Pi is a visual spectacle, Irrfan Kahn's best

There are a lot of positive and admirable things about Ang Lee's latest
Life of Pi. Cinematographer Claudio Miranda captures the most
uproarious and glorious shots captured this year thus far. The 3D
effects are some of the best ever seen and feels absolutely necessary
in a film so heavy handed with religious tones. What Mychael Danna
achieves in Lee's film has just placed him in the forefront of great
film composers working today. He continues to impress with his musical
range, envelopes the film's message and thematic narrative in somber
and beautiful melodic notes. On Visual Effects alone, Life of Pi will
likely land a nomination for Best Picture. What Lee invents with the
ocean and the integration of the tiger and the other animals is
spectacular. He allows the mood of the film and the imagery to marry
each other in a ceremonial experience that stands next to Sci-Fi epics
like Avatar (2009) and Hugo (2011).Newcomer Suraj Sharma puts a valiant effort in the role of "Pi," a
performance that may land him more critical and impressive roles in the
future. The work is reminiscent of great breakthrough performers like
Rudy Youngblood (Apocalypto, 2006) and Dev Patel (Slumdog Millionaire,
2008); both were impressive turns but sadly will not catch any awards
attention. Irrfan Kahn, who has delivered in great supporting turns
like The Namesake (2006) and A Mighty Heart (2007), could have his best
chance ever for serious awards attention. His hurdle will be a minimal
screen presence and a supporting actor race that's crowded with "movie
stars." Lee directs the film with a firm hand. He knows what he wants to say
and for the most part gets his message across. Unfortunately an
unfocused and at times jumbled screenplay by the great David Magee
creates an atmosphere that relies more on the visuals then the
narrative. Also, I'm unfamiliar with the book by Yann Martel, never
read it before, so I have nothing to compare it to but much of the
story's elements of surprise feel rather cheap and ill-fitting. Not
sure how it will play with others but the film remains pretty
consistent on the entertainment sector. Lee explains his preparation for the film at the New York Film Festival
with such passion and delight. He speaks about getting Sharma properly
prepared by placing him on a boat in the middle of the ocean and
meeting a real life shipwreck survivor; Lee's love for the project
comes through, all four years in the making. It's a directorial
achievement that the Director's branch of the Academy could easily get
behind. The film lands solidly on the front door of awards season with ease and
could rally a loyal legion of followers. Look out for the National
Board of Review to kick it offI can almost put money on it.Read more reviews @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com)
