10
More Than Just a Zombie Film

This new Korean film "Train to Busan" is certainly earning a lot of
positive word of mouth and box office success since its debut in the
Midnight Screenings section of this year's Cannes Film Festival.The central character is Seok-woo, a man stressed out with problems
about his investments business and his divorce. His 9-year old daughter
Su-an, feeling neglected, requests her father to bring her to Busan the
next day to see her estranged mother. Seok-woo could not say no.On the same train to Busan as Seok-woo and Su-an, a lady passenger with
a bite wound on her legs, collapses and turns into a zombie. As she
bites another person, that next person would also turn into a zombie
and so on. Panic ensues on the train, and as everyone eventually
discover along the way that the same zombie frenzy was true for the
rest of the country. The fight to survive is now on.This film was one exhilarating roller-coaster ride from beginning to
end. The zombies and their attack scenes were very well-executed with a
combination of practical and computer-generated effects. These monsters
were very fast-moving and relentless in their quest for human flesh. We
hear people around us gasp and shriek with shock as we see these
zombies pile up in droves and hordes, crash out of windows and barrel
through doors. We breathlessly hang on to the edge of our seats the
whole ride.Of course, what Korean film does not have a good dose of melodrama? The
father-daughter dynamic between Seok-woo and Su-an is front and center.
But aside from them, we also meet a cast of supporting characters on
the train whose fates we will be following for the rest of the film.
These include a burly man with his pregnant wife, a teenager with his
girlfriend and his baseball team, a haughty businessman, two elderly
sisters and a homeless man, among others. We get just enough
introduction about who they are for us to care about what happens to
them.Gong Woo played the flawed lead character Seok-woo very well. He was
able to convincingly portray the development of this uncaring apathetic
guy into a hero we could all root for to get through this crisis alive.
He was as good in the weepy dramatic scenes as he was in the
swashbuckling action scenes. This actor has come a long way since his
breakout role as lead star of the TV romantic comedy series "The Coffee
Prince" back in 2007.Kim Su-an is only 10 years old but she had already been acting in films
for five years now. She is the dramatic core of this film as the
daughter desperately reaching out to her jaded father. As a child
actress, she held her own impressively among this cast of veterans with
her heartfelt portrayal. Who would have thought that the sad little
song she wanted to sing for her father would resonate so much?Ma Dong-seok is charismatic as Sang-hwa, a devoted husband and selfless
fighter. We see him first as some sort of comic relief only, which made
the audience warm up to him. Later, we would discover how much more his
character was able to do and give for others, and loved him more. His
pregnant wife Seong-kyeong was played by acclaimed Korean indie film
actress Jung Yu-mi, conveying strength in her delicate condition. Another actor of note is Kim Eui-sung, who was totally hateful in his
role as the selfish Yong-suk. In total contrast to Sang-hwa, Yong- suk
was a man only thought of himself alone, not caring that he actually
put a lot of other characters directly into harm's way.Ahn So-hee (as Jin-hee) and Choi Woo-shik (as Young-guk) were in there
to inject some teenage romantic angst into the film. They were
relatively lightweight performers who were probably included just
because they looked cool. That scene when Young-guk encounters his
baseball teammates-turned-zombies was very well-conceived by the
writers. People may dismiss as "just" being a zombie film, but it is the drama
of human relationships and interactions that rises above the horrific
and thrilling carnage. Director Yeon Sang-ho's first two feature-
length films ("The King of Pigs" and "The Fake") were both animated
films exploring the bleak side of human nature. With his first live
action directorial effort, Yeon has created a complete film masterpiece
with "Train to Busan." Highly recommended! 10/10.
