7
The strengths of "Deepwater Horizon" are its strong characters and its extraordinary attention to detail.

Peter Berg makes movies, but he also knows a lot about deep-water oil
exploration. He'd have to, considering how complicated this dangerous
activity is, and how well he handled those complexities and portrayed
that danger in his film. Berg directed "Deepwater Horizon" (PG-13,
1:47), the dramatization of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil rig explosion
which killed 11 people and resulted in the largest oil spill in the
history of the petroleum industry and the biggest environmental
disaster in U.S. history. A combination of faulty equipment and human
error caused the disaster. Methane gas escaping up the rig's pipes
enveloped it, ignited and eventually consumed the rig, which burned
until sinking into the ocean 36 hours after the initial explosion. The
titular rig's owner, Transocean, and its client, BP, traded accusations
of wrongdoing for years, while various cases worked their way through
the courts – and a lengthy environmental clean-up of the gulf coast
proceeded. No one went to jail, but, according to Wikipedia, "To date
BP's cost for the clean-up, environmental and economic damages and
penalties has reached $54bn." But that's all scientific and industrial
detail. This film is mainly a story about people.Berg (with his screenwriters, Matthew Michael Carnahan and Michael
Sand) personalizes the story by focusing on a few key people involved
in the events depicted. Master electrician Mike Williams (played by
Mark Wahlberg, who Berg also directed in 2013's "Lone Survivor") is a
devoted family man with a loving wife (Kate Hudson) and a sweet and
precocious daughter (Stella Allen), who's very proud of her dad and his
job. Radio operator Andrea Fleytas (Gina Rodriguez) is a young, single
woman who has a steady boyfriend and loves her vintage Ford Mustang,
even if she does have trouble keeping it running. Both Mike and Andrea
work for "Mr. Jimmy" (Kurt Russell, appearing on film for the first
time with Hudson, who is his adopted daughter) is the caring, but tough
and diligent Transocean foreman on Deepwater Horizon, who often finds
himself at odds with BP's corporate representatives on the oil rig.As Mr. Jimmy and his crew arrive at the rig for their three-week-long
turn on board, it's apparent that the departing shift (including Berg,
in a cameo role, in which he briefly talks with Russell's character)
hasn't done their due diligence in taking care of operation and safety
concerns on the rig. While entertaining two BP executives who are
visiting Deepwater Horizon (and who present him with a safety award
during a brief ceremony), Mr. Jimmy locks horns with BP liaison Donald
Vidrine (John Malkovich). Mr. Jimmy insists on a test of the pressure
entering the well from beneath the ocean floor. When the test gives
conflicting results and the results of an alternate follow-up test
complicates the situation further, the stage is set for disaster. The
rest of the film depicts that disaster with astonishing detail and
realism as everyone on that rig fights for survival and for the goal of
getting back safely to their families."Deepwater Horizon" is a fascinating, entertaining and inspiring take
on a real-life disaster. We get good character development and a
detailed behind-the-scenes look at the considerations, disagreements
and actions that led up to the catastrophic explosion, but there are a
couple problems with all that. Berg does a good job with a combination
of dialog, on-screen verbiage and impressive visuals to help us
understand the dynamics at play, but it almost seems like too much, and
the conversations, with a lot of technical jargon, characters talking
over each other and seeming to mumble their lines, and some with
various southern accents and some without, combine to make it difficult
to tune one's ear to the dialog and understand everything that's being
said. However, the main point of this movie is the survival story. Berg
had a realistic version of the rig built (including many working
components) for shooting. His attention to detail – in the set and in
the film's visual effects is nothing short of remarkable. What's more,
we care about the characters and the danger they're in feels real. For
excellent acting, a well-developed story and incredible visuals, you
should put this film on your horizon. "B+"
