10
F1 fan or not, You will Love this movie!!!

i just saw this movie a few days ago at a special advanced screening.
as and avid F1 fan myself i loved it. this review might contain
Spoiloers depending on how much you want to know about the movie. i
don't give many movies a 10/10 but this one got it. overall a superb
movie, this is Hollywood's first attempt at telling and showing F1 on
the big screen and they nailed it. yes there were a few things they
could have done better but not everything is perfect. When you hear those V12 engines start up in the opening scene, you get
that Rush of testosterone in the pit of your stomach because of the
sheer ferociousness of the sound in the theater. from that point on you
are hooked. even if your not an F1 fan that scene will make you want
more. every girl i talked to about the movie said they were seeing it
for Hemsworth, and after the movie they were in awe about the
awesomeness of Formula 1 and what it takes to succeed in the sport.
from then on the movie moves at a good pace. as an F1 fan i wish there
were a few more race scenes, but it is a Hollywood movie not a
documentary so they have to appeal to everyone. the plot and the way
the present it was great. i wish they went a little more in depth on
Lauda and Hunts backgrounds and also went more in depth on the
supporting characters like andretti and regazzoni. but since they
didn't do that it lead to a better look at the intense rivalry between
lauda and hunt. the small amount of comedy that was in it was very
funny, it was somewhat unexpected. the Cinematography is amazing. so
many different shots throughout the car and driver as an audience you
feel like your right there with them, and as an F1 fan you get all the
shots you expect and more. you also get a very good sense of the 1970s
era, it feels like a movie made in the 70s with modern quality. some
parts look gritty like they used 35mm film.overall i think this is one of, if not the best movie I've ever seen. i
saw it 4 days ago and i cant stop thinking and replaying scenes from
the movie in my head. i cannot wait for it to come out on blu ray.
obviously go see it if your an F1 fan, but even if you aren't i
guarantee you will like it. take your girlfriend or sister or mom to go
see it and they will enjoy it no matter what. and you definitely wont
be bored, it kept me on the edge of my seat the entire movie. not one
person left the theater once it started.
