8
Much Better Than I Was Expecting

When I first heard that Beautiful Creatures (the novel) was going to be
adapted into a movie, I was hesitant to see it, due to the fact that
the trailers were absolutely horrible. I'm just glad that the movie
focused on a lot more than a supernatural romance, because that's only
one of many interesting and complicated plot lines. Despite the fact that the LA Times and the NY Times gave the flick
great reviews, a bunch of lesser-known critics were much harsher on it.
After reading some of these reviews, I was shocked to see how biased
and silly some of the comments were. It was clear that these were
people that walked in to the theater expecting Twilight and were too
self-conscious about praising a teen movie to say that it wasn't. Twilight is all about the romance. Beautiful Creatures has a big Romeo
and Juliet thing going on, but at the same time, there's mysteries,
prophesies, hypocrisy, Southern politics, Civil War history, religion,
death, evil forces, and all sorts of madness making for quite an
interesting story (with some very witty and sarcastic dialogue to put a
cherry on top). Other people that read the book were likewise upset, because they
thought it strayed too much from the source material. The only MAJOR
change made was about 3/4 of the way through the movie, and the end
result was still the same as the book. The reason why the writer did
this was for the sake of TIME. If he hadn't made that change, the movie
would have dragged on for three hours as oppose to rapping itself up
nicely at two.I thought the acting was good as well, and Alden Ehrenreich and Alice
Englert had nice chemistry as Ethan and Lena. Of course, Jeremy Irons,
Emma Thompson, and Viola Davis gave great performances, but that comes
as no surprise. Emmy Rossum as the wicked siren, Ridley, was fabulous,
and Thomas Mann was hilarious as Link. I especially loved Thompson's twisted character-she played a crazy
Republican fundamentalist named Mrs. Lincoln, who gets possessed by
Sarafine Duchannes, the most powerful Dark Caster alive. As Sarafine,
her performance was definitely "Dark", bridging on psychotic. Not what
I was expecting, but I liked it. However, I thought some of the other actors, like the girls that played
the Barbie cheerleaders, were horrible. There is a way to portray phony
people and there is a way to pull off a satire while still keeping it
believable. Besides plot and acting, I loved the costumes and set. They were very
beautifully done and really captured the gorgeous yet creepy atmosphere
of the story. In addition, the effects were cool-nothing to die over,
but they served their purpose. Lastly, I thought the soundtrack was awesome and very different. The
mix of classical, blues, country, and alternative music worked great
with the film.Overall, I think the movie is an 8 out of 10. It's not amazing, but it
is entertaining, interesting, and something I recommend seeing.
