1
unbelievably bad...

Wow. Just wow. Easily one of the worst films (if you can really call it
a film) I have ever seen. I spent the first half of the movie waiting
for a punchline that never came. I thought maybe it was doing some kind
of retro, pretend to be a B movie thing that would have some good
laughs over how ironically lame it was. Nope. It really just is a B
movie (and a terrible one at that) that somehow managed to trick big
stars into it. I kept gasping in disbelief that the movie really could
be that bad and still have big names. I thought maybe it was some lost
movie that they decided to release now for some reason, but even that
didn't make sense because even Bruce Willis' first movies were leagues
better. When I saw the cast list, I thought this would have to be at least
okay. I mean it has B. Willis, C. Zeta-Jones, V. Vaughn, J. Jackson,
and L. Prepon. All well know actors, and usually in decent films. I
still can't believe that every one of these actors actually decided to
do this film. It is just mind-blowing. This is easily the worst film of
all of their careers, and the worst acting any of them has ever done.
Even these stars couldn't overcome the script and make themselves look
like good actors. If you were only listening and not paying much
attention you wouldn't even know it was them, seriously. Then you would
look up half way through the movie and it would blow your mind that it
was these stars you were listening to, bumbling through their terribly
lines. Nothing about this movie was accurate or realistic at all. The script
is terrible, the acting is terrible, and it looks like it was filmed by
amateurs using cameras they bought from Futureshop. How did this movie
possibly cost 20 million? I kid you not, Kevin Smith's "Clerks" looks
like it has higher production value than this. No real plot either. No
twists, no nothing. There is not one single interesting thing in this
movie. I was only able to get through it so I could verify that it was
bad all the way through. It is one of those movies you keep watching
only because you just can't believe it is THAT bad. The main character is played by Rebecca Hall (a complete unknown), and
my god, what an atrocious acting job. Get ready for one of the worst I-
can't-believe-they-put-this-person-in-a-movie performances you have
ever seen. I feel bad for the girl working with such a poor script
(even Willis appeared to be a bad actor in this), but man, I would be
terribly surprised if she ever gets an acting job again, unless it is
just for sex appeal.I just can't emphasize how terrible this was. Just astonishingly bad.
You won't believe your eyes. The only remotely redeeming quality is
that Laura Prepon's breasts make an appearance, and I say this only
jokingly. It certainly won't do anything for her career to get naked in
this mess of a film.The movie "The Room" is actually better than this, and it is widely
regarded as the worst movie ever made.
