6
Only if you have 130 minutes free time and nothing better to do

This is not a film that you are going to watch multiple times. Even for
the first time, I had some difficulties. Sometimes felt like
suffocating, and asking myself again and again: What is the point of
this movie??Well, one thing you are going to notice, there is no story. No
character development, not really. I mean there's no real crisis, no
problem to be solved, no real risk. If you have seen the First World
problem memes, then you know what I'm talking about. The problems of
these people are ridiculous to my Central-European eye. I mean these
people are the high- end of the middle class society, and as such,
whine a lot at the first sight of money problem. They got a huge ass
house, two cars, an SUV and a BMW, all the trendy Apple products that
exist (of which every product is overpriced), and they worry about
having too much food. Then the women gets pregnant and they wonder how
they are going to sustain themselves. Come on people, most of that debt
could be solved by selling the two cars, then buying a used one. No,
they got to sell the house. Yeah, that's what I was thinking, sell your
most valuable asset instead of things you don't really need. Whatever,
I could ridicule this film all day about this Richie Rich attitude.
This film could be called "Shit people don't need, and are in the film
for marketing"So I managed to establish the non-existent story (which is ironic).
This makes the film really hard to watch, as the whole thing is a
constant line, no ups or downs. Rather, all the film is a constant
middle-low, with a few laughs caused by the dialogs. I could even say
that some parts were sick in the dialog, but then without that this
film would be just a few everyday events played by actors. I'm not going to list actors, directors, producers, I don't get why
people do that, it's all up on IMDb, so useless to do. Like this film,
it's 130 minutes of boredom with few laughs to make you keep watching.
I mean even though they had famous actors, this movie sucked because of
the writing. I wouldn't watch this again. Well maybe the parts with Megan Fox, I
would want her to be my escort. She's hot. She's the best thing in the
film.
