9
"Rush" Review

"Rush" is one of the best films of the year. I was pleasantly surprised
by the amount of depth and emotional story telling this film possess.
From its brilliant script that infuses humor, drama, and a story about
a fascinating rivalry to its impeccable and detailed oriented
direction, this film succeeds on every level.Ron Howard's direction is extremely noteworthy as I felt like a part of
the journey and involved with the characters as I cheered them on. In
the beginning, I was rooting for James, but as the movie progresses and
things unravel, I was cheering for Niki. However, as the movie moves
forward, I couldn't choose one over the other. This is the type of
engagement that I love in movies, it keeps the audience involved and
contently thinking about every situation and the characters as a whole.This film is well edited and shot as well. I couldn't find a useless or
uninteresting moment in this film. Everything flowed very well and the
film moved at a brisk pace. It felt as every shot or sequence is
catered to moving and developing the characters and their story
forward. The racing sequences are well shot and make you feel a part of
the race. My heart rushed when characters successfully made narrow life
endangering turns. It is a really good film to look at as the scenery
and environment crafted feels inviting and absorbing.The cast in this film is superb. Chris Hemsworth gives his finest
performance to date as a carefree playboy. Even though his character
James Hunt doesn't appear serious, he struggles with his inner demons
trying to be taken a bit more seriously. Daniel Bruhl also gives and
equally impressive, if not better, performance as Niki Lauda an
arrogant self-absorbent racer. It's interesting to see his character go
from caring only about himself and racing to something more important.
The greatest aspect of the characters are their interactions. I really
enjoy how they can't stand each other, but can't be successful without
each other either. While they hate one another, they find a mutual
respect for the other. It's quite endearing to see how they have each
others back off the tracks.Overall, "Rush" is an amazing movie and totally worth your time. It's a
movie that has everything, from drama to humor to love. The greatest
aspect of the film is its truly brilliant and masterful score by Hans
Zimmer. His score gives the right amount of emotional punch along with
improving everything we see and giving the film a greater amount of
importance. I give this film an extremely high 4.5/5, a well oiled film
that has no wasted parts.
