6
Trippy & Original!

Writer-Director Ana Lily Amirpour's 'The Bad Batch' is quite a ride!
Trippy & Original, this romantic black comedy horror-thriller flick, is
intentionally slow-paced & has very less dialogue to speak of, and
while its never compelling enough to be called a must see, it still has
its own strange mood that is appealing for the most part.'The Bad Batch' Synopsis: A love story set in a community of cannibals
in a Future Dystopia. In a desert wasteland in Texas, a muscled
cannibal breaks one important rule: don't play with your food.'The Bad Batch' is a story on survival at the end of nowhere. The world
here is shown as broken, deserted & horrifically violent. Its a world
where cannibalism rules, its a world where people are near danger at
all times & survival is their first priority. Its all dry, dusted &
dirty!Ana Lily Amirpour's Screenplay is comfortably slow-paced & delivers a
story that will only cater to a niche audience. The mood & the
atmosphere of this story, is certainly not meant for all. I, however,
found myself interested in this story for a good part of it. And while
the film is overlong at nearly 2 hours, the narrative never gets
unbearable. Its thoroughly watchable & extremely well-shot. Ana Lily
Amirpour's Direction deserves brownie points. She has Directed the film
with a vision of her own & remains true to the subject matter all
through. Lyle Vincent's Cinematography is excellent & captures the cannibalistic
world, most effectively. Alex O'Flinn's Editing needed to be sharper.
Though crisp in parts, the film needed to be trimmed by at least
15-minutes. Art & Costume Design are brilliantly done. And 'The Bad
Batch' features a killer soundtrack, featuring some smashing tracks
from the yesteryear's.Performance-Wise: Suki Waterhouse is superb in a star-making
performance. As the protagonist with a lost hand, Waterhouse is sexy &
arresting in her portrayal. Jason Momoa uses his buffed up body to do
most of the talking. Keanu Reeves as the Dream, a manipulative
cult-leader, is at his relaxed best. Jim Carrey as the mute & lanky
Hermit is outstanding. Giovanni Ribisi as the mentally damaged Bobby,
leaves a strong impression.On the whole, 'The Bad Batch' isn't bad nor is it great. Its somewhere
between good to above-average.
