5
Cash grab? probably.

The Wan hype train is rolling through this film, there for it will make
a lot of money just because of The Conjuring. I don't hate James Wan, I
just hate the people that d**k ride his films, probably because horror
is complete trash now-a-days, and this is the closest thing people see
as good horror. But in reality, it's mediocre and nothing special. The
Conjuring was a well made film, but it was downright horrible in every
other category, including the most important thing, atmosphere/scares.
Luckily this film was more of a thriller than it was a horror film,
they recycled the exact some scares from the first film. I'll explain.The plot is alright in the sense that it actually has a thought out
story line, even if it is down right stupid at times. All the
characters return, even those annoying comic relief paranormal
specialists. You can pretty much guess the plot just by watching the
trailer, every thing is obvious, except for when they stretch out the
BS. There is some time travel nonsense that is just plain ridiculous.
Is there infinite realities, is this Bioshock or a ghost movie. It
really tries to have this mind bending plot line, but it just had me
rolling my eyes. It's about as clever as the swing away twist in Signs,
that's pretty bad. The ending should be left as it is, if not, we are
looking at the next paranormal activity, the BS will just go on and on,
but people will see it. In fact, James Wan could be described as
paranormal activity, over hyped, appeals to the masses, even if it
completely ruins his films. He makes his films dirt cheap, and wrings
in the cash from the general audiences.The music is still loud as hell, or quiet to the point you can't even
hear it. The acting is fine, they get a pass. There is no tension, no
good scares or atmosphere. You never feel a sense of urgency, or fear.
It is all around horrible as a horror film. But it was pretty
entertaining, and just all around fine. You'll roll your eyes more than
you'll jump in terror. The story was wrapped up, but that old Hollywood
money machine will still be sniffing around this franchise.
