5
Typical action mixed with a cheesy and illogical script

The Wolverine is OK at best, even with Hugh Jackman's usual superb
acting. Most of the action is mediocre and offers no surprises (you can
tell from the situation who is gonna die and who is gonna hit who
several seconds before they do so) with the exception of a few really
great scenes, but these scenes are scattered very far apart. What really brings the movie down isn't its action though, but rather
the culprit lies in the writing. Not only does it defy science and
physics every chance it gets -{{SPOILER: A poor representation of an
atomic bomb hitting Nagasaki is shown through a memory SPOILER OVER}}-
, but the depictions of certain powers make you wonder if the writers
even know how Wolverine's powers work. -{{SPOILER: At one point a guy
in a robot samurai (Real Steel, anyone?)somehow manages to CUT
Wolverine's adamantium claws with a heated blade, despite the fact that
adamantium is supposed to be unbreakable, with the only material within
the same zone of strength being vibranium (what Captain America's
shield is made of). But the film never offers any sort of clarification
or explanation to this. Added to this is that by somehow drilling into
his bones, the man in the suit gets younger as if he got Logan's
healing factor (even though that's not how it works), yet a few seconds
later he gets stabbed and his supposed healing power does nothing
anymore? SPOILER OVER}}- The character writing is poor and very 2-dimensional for everyone other
than Logan, and so many developmental/emotional moments are thrown at
you so fast that you don't have time to grab onto any of them. It's
like there was a bag full of typical Hollywood ideas that the movie
just flung on-top of the script.Build onto this is a predictable and lazy script with a few cheap jokes
and a forced romance, and you have a movie that does little more than
half-entertain you. And to add to this, the after credits scene makes
NO sense (powers wise) and backtracks/negates important aspects from
the last movie, which is a very childish and unprofessional thing to
do, even if the last movie was quite bad. The people at Marvel need to
simply accept their mistake and move on, rather than try to dwell on
things that people enjoyed from their first 2 successful X-Men movies.However, people always overate movies when they first come out,
especially for Marvel, so the rating you see here is probably not the
one you would give it. But if you're willing to deny several of the
things you thought you knew for an hour and a half to be sorta
entertained, then you shouldn't have much of a problem for this movie.
If not, i recommend reading the plot instead to get ready for the next
movie.
