8
A crude and desolate world

In The Survivalist the world population outgrew the food supply and a
decline in Oil Production.In a world were rules no longer apply but you
own, what is right and what is wrong is at your discretion, ethics and
morals are crushed by the will to survive. This is a world were people
use the most extreme measures to stay alive. We also see how the world
copes with the downfall of humanity.We look at the life of an unnamed Man living alone in the wilderness,
his sole existence focused on his daily routine. We see much stillness
and subtlety while we see desolation consumes every minute in his life,
even so he is comfortable with his environment, having no desire for
any human contact. Until two women (mother and daughter)seeking shelter
and food, the protagonist rejects them, having clear antisocial
interaction and most likely a personality disorder,until the mother
reminds him something only her daughter can offer. They are make a
barter so they can stay and help to cultivate and hunt. We realize that he is a very reserved and quiet person his solitude is
a way to protect himself both physically and mentally,but he manages to
open to them in his own way. At some point he has to save the daughter
from another survivalist gaining some of the humanity he ones lost and
taking away the selfishness in him, to me its not a heroic act its just
a very humanist choice that burst out in him. For me personally that is
the subject of this film loss and recovery of a person broken by guilt.I can see some influences from the walking dead, the last of us and the
road. Removing the colorful atmosphere surrounding their environment
its a very gray world and the inclination of what is good and bad
depends on how the characters accept the new world in which they live
and the rules they must follow to maintain their humanity. "You forget what you want to remember, and you remember what you want
to forget." ― Cormac McCarthy, The Road
