10
Beyond the Creeps

At first glance, The Babadook may sound like a tale that warns people 

to not let children put creepy stories up into their heads. It may also 

be like one of those old horror movies with children being influenced 

by the ghost. The titular monster seems to have the potential of being 

a silly urban legend, such as Slender Man or the Hash Slinging Slasher 

(sorry about that), that is destined to be flooded with fan fiction, or 

simply just another horror movie icon, but the film surprisingly has a 

different aim than just scaring the audience. It might as well be a 

character study of a mother having a hard time moving on after the 

tragedy she's been through losing her husband and trying to raise her 

only son. The real horror doesn't come out that quick, but there is 

already a pretty compelling movie when it come to its characters. The 

tension is just the prize for being intrigued by the story's core.



One thing people must know about the film is it's not generally about 

The Babadook monster. In spite that the antagonist has an ambitiously 

great campy design and his story is told well by a twisted storybook 

with wondrously illustrated diorama, the movie is still laden on the 

more human element of the tale, which is the struggle of a mother who 

is unable to live normally. The pacing of her life may move too fast 

for the film, but the sadness and deprivation beneath those regular 

troubling days are totally manifested even without extending any of its 

breathing. The plot mostly concerns Amelia finding a way to overcome 

Samuel's behavioral issues and her memories with the accident than 

dealing with the whole supernatural threat, for sure it is trying to 

build some slow burn, but even without that horror movie sense, it 

still feels like they're being tormented by life.



It deliberately takes their personal grief seriously, making sure that 

they actually aren't insane, and nobody else could ever understand what 

they're going through. This is pretty much the most compelling view of 

the film, which makes them reasonably trapped into their own 

nightmares. Mister Babadook only becomes the boiling point of the 

ordeal. And when it hits to the part of the real scares, it sells well 

whenever the monster attacks. Instead of loud lazy jump scares, it 

rather spreads away signs of his presence and its effects to the 

family. His appearance has more terror if he's lurking in the shadows. 

It also has a nice use of practical effects to endure its very 

effective creeps. The performances of the two leads are outstanding for 

bringing the real heart of the picture. Essie Davis embraces the 

character, making her fear, depression, and shifting madness all 

visibly genuine. Same to the young Noah Wiseman who as well gives his 

character's actions some sense of anxiety.



Some horror fans might get slightly disappointed for not giving The 

Babadook monster enough of the characterization he deserves. The other 

story is a lot more interesting to follow than his diorama tricks, and 

that is why I keep stating that the the movie is best viewed as a 

gloomy fairytale about a mother and a son fighting to keep a hold of 

themselves and promise to protect each other from the odds, even if the 

promise doesn't always apply, than just another horror movie being 

shown in our theaters. While it still has the right amount of admirably 

campy scares, the film often explores to the larger and much affecting 

side of the story, and that sure offers beyond than what you expect to 

this stale genre.
