6
Another gem from the twisted twins.

Movie review:The twisted twins, Sylvia and Jen Soska, are back with
their second full length feature. Now that people are taking notice to
their talent, this time they have a budget (although they did need to
take out a second mortgage to get the project off the ground). Anyway,
this movie is about Mary, a brilliant med student studying to be a
surgeon. Of course, money issues arise, as seems to always happen to
college kids, so she decides stripping may be the way to go. While
"interviewing" for the job, a strange occurrence puts here in the helm
of a situation where she is needed to perform surgery at the club for
quick cash. She soon realizes that maybe under the table surgical
procedures may become a way to make money, so when a woman tracks her
down after finding her resume at the club, she takes on a second
patient. Mary finds herself juggling the task of student and surgeon on
the side. Well, the life of being a student is crossed when she is
invited to a "party" where she is the guest of honor, so to speak, and
the world of the actual surgeons take a toll on her as she is drugged
and raped. This incident pushes Mary over the edge and she takes
matters into her own hands. This movie does a wonderful job weaving the
tale of a woman that is forced into a life she wasn't prepared for,
that of BME and revenge. It follows her downward spiral balancing
reality with the virtually psychotic road she has chosen. The movie is
much more polished than it's predecessor and it shows in the quality of
camera-work and editing. The acting is very well done by Katherine
Isabelle as Mary, and the other actors hold their own in their
respective roles. Of course, the blood and gore is there, but not as
extensive as their previous effort. It really wasn't needed for the
story the twins wrote. American Mary had a limited theater release so
you may or may not have had the chance to see it. If not, I again
highly suggest that you see this movie. It is good to see new talent
emerging with entertaining movies that don't follow the cookie cutter
mold Hollywood has been giving us. 6.4/10 IMDb 6.0 . I very much
anticipate the next release from these two.
