6
When Harry Potter met Sally

I would like to say that I went to see the preview of this film with an
open mind, but in reality I expected it to be predictable and clichéd.
In actual fact, whilst it was somewhat predictable (it's a rom-com, you
can take a good guess at the ending from the opening scene!)... it was
actually not entirely what I expected.Daniel Radcliffe plays the lead role in this film that seeks to find
whether men and women can be platonic friends. The woman in question is
played by Zoe Kazan. The film is set between Toronto and Dublin - yes
Toronto, which usually impersonates various US cities in movies with
limited budgets actually gets to play itself for once!Stewing over a recent breakup, Wallace (Radcliffe) works at a textbook
company while living in his sister's attic (an improvement over the
cupboard under the stairs, at least). He's primed for romance when he
encounters Chantry (Kazan), spewing whimsy and animated sketches in her
wake. Sparks fly only to be put out when Chantry mentions her boyfriend
and asks if they can just be friends.In one of the early scenes of 'What If,' Wallace moves word magnets
around a fridge, spelling out, 'love is stupid.' Most romantic comedies
would stop there so the leading man could reflect somberly on the
words. Instead, Wallace adds, 'stupid monkeys dancing in a slapstick
hurricane.' This sets the theme for the entire film, awkward
conversations making bad jokes at the wrong time. It is the characters of Wallace and Chantry that not only save this
film from being yet another generic rom-com, but that lift it far
beyond the confines of the genre so that you almost forget that we're
going to end up where we always do with these types of stories. However, it's telling just how soon after the credits roll that you
forget about 'What If'. Engaging all the way through, and a wonderful
showcase for its two stars, but perhaps that bit of subtext would have
given this film more of a shelf life. I was almost at one point
expecting them to just remain friends, but that is far too risky for a
movie of this derivative, and so an improbably convenient happy ending
is duly manufactured. Whilst I expected to be annoyed by this film for being dull,
predictable and clichéd, it was not actually so bad. In fact, the most
annoying thing is that the title of the 'What If' film contains neither
a question mark, nor an ellipsis ('What If... someone made a rom-com
that didn't strictly adhere to formula?).Overall verdict: 'What If' breathes life into the tired rom-com formula
through its whimsical script and quirky cast. In UK cinemas 20 August
2014.
