9
The Guest - The Best Hidden Gem of 2014

The Guest just might be the 'coolest' movie of the year, it certainly
features one of the coolest characters of the year, David. The movie
has style to spare, from the vibrant lighting, to the retro soundtrack,
the movie is easy on the eyes and ears, it's flat out amazing. The
soundtrack being the high-point of the film, an a ray of synthesized
songs that makes the movie something special. All the technical aspects
of the film are more than covered, they are the highlight of the film,
and the acting coming from Dan Stevens and Maika Monroe is great. The story revolves around the cryptic character, David, who stays with
the family of a fallen soldier and subtly begins imposing his will on
their lives. It's great to see the director know how to handle the
material and shift the viewer's opinion of David back and forth, he's
shown as the coolest guy at the party, he can do anything and
everything, but at the same time you are shown darker glimpses of him
that create some type of doubt. It's this doubt that carries the movie
along, at first David is the saving grace of the family, he's solving
their problems one at a time, but then things slowly start to change
for the worse.Is he who he says he is, is he really there to help, did he really
serve with their son/brother, is all of this too good to be true? All
these questions remain hidden until the end and rather than take the
conventional route with this type of story, the movie takes a somewhat
bizarre turn as it reveals what David's motives are and who he is.
Though I can imagine some people might have a problem with how light
the movie is with the details of who he is, I certainly had no problem
with it whatsoever. I loved just about every single minute in the movie, other than the
mother who takes open arms to new heights, this is how low budget
thrillers should be. As I said above, the retro soundtrack and
directing style coming from Adam Wingard is nothing short of
spectacular. This is one of the best hidden gems of the year and sure
to gain a very solid cult following as the years go by!
