8
A smart and charming romantic comedy.

The summer of 2014 hasn't seen as many strong independent films like
last year. However, in the final days of the summer movie season comes
Michael Dowse's "What If", a smart and charming romantic comedy. It's a
well written film about Wallace (Daniel Radcliffe) who becomes friends
with Chantry (Zoe Kazan) who is with her long time boyfriend Ben (Rafe
Spall). Wallace and Chantry develop feelings for each other and
struggle with what to do. It sounds cheesy and boring, but don't miss
this film. Elan Mastai's script is sharp and never over extends it hand. It
combines several kinds of humor, from slapstick to witty. Mastai's
screenplay balances all these humors well while also getting to the
heart of the situation. The film has depth and mature conversations
about romance and what to do when stuck in a love triangle.The film is also well cast. Radcliffe feels very natural in the role.
It's nice to see him play an everyday man instead of some epic famous
character. Radcliffe is good at both and this film proves it. He also
has good chemistry with Kazan. Radcliffe and Kazan are balanced well
with Adam Driver's Allan and Mackenzie Davis' Nicole. Driver is
hilarious and steals the scenes. All of them fit their parts very well
and give the film its charm.The story can be predictable and maybe a bit forced at times, but its
heart warming and grows on you. It uses artistic and visual motifs well
and feels well rounded and complete. The film also has a nice indie
rock soundtrack that fits right in. "What If" seems like a nice blend
between " (500) Days of Summer" and "When Harry Met Sally...". The romantic comedy genre seems to be criticized a lot. There are
plenty of junk films in it, but "What If" is a gem. It's well written
and acted and is able to balance many kinds of humors to please many
people. "What If" is a romantic comedy done right. It is a nice little
treat at the end of a blockbuster filled summer.
