9
The Franchise Has Came A Long Way From Where It Began

After the success of the last movie Universal decides to go ahead and
make another "Fast & Furious" movie, but Justin Lin decided to walk
away from that and now we have a new director, James Wan who is more
known to the horror genre. The film stars Vin Diesel, Paul Walker,
Dwayne Johnson, Michelle Rodriguez, Tyrese Gibson, Ludicrous, Jordana
Brewster, Lucas Black, Tony Jaa, Djimon Hounsou, Kurt Russell and Jason
Statham Fast & Furious 1 and 2 were about tuning cars and street racing
while occasionally chasing criminals. Then the third movie "Tokyo
Drift" jumped a few years ahead in the story, it felt like it had
nothing to do with the first two because it didn't have Paul Walker or
Vin Diesel, even though he had a cameo in it, but it did have one of
the original gang in it. 4-6 were used to fill in the gaps between the
second and third movie. As time went for these movies they became more
about huge action set pieces, heists, car chases and stunts while
creating entertaining characters that you couldn't help but enjoy
watching over the years. Fast and Furious 7 (aka Furious 7) is where
everything it brought together and all the loose ends are tied. Dominic
Toretto (Vin Diesel), Brian O' Conner (Paul Walker) and co recently
took down a dangerous criminal in the UK. Unfortunately for them, his
big bad brother found out and now they are being hunted by Deckard Shaw
(Jason Statham). Shaw is out to pick them off one by one so obviously
they're going to throw massive car chases and stunts and big punchy
fight scenes at him over the course of two hours. Everyone should know what to expect when see a "Fast & Furious" movie,
car chases, racing, people beating themselves up and good looking
women. I've been a fan of the franchise when I was 13 years old the
time when the fourth movie was released. This one gives you memories of
the franchise from where it started, there are several references from
the previous movies and it even takes you back to the first movie like
the fourth one did. To me the one character that steals every scene is
Tyrese Gibson as Roman Pearce. The big elephant in the room is the
death of Paul Walker who plays Brian O' Conner, just a few months into
filming. The film was delayed for months and has definitely had much of
its content changed, especially the ending. Vin Diesel has said much
about dedicating the film to him and it's easy to see. The remainder of
his scenes were completed using his two brothers Caleb and Cody as
stand-ins with some CGI on top. The added scenes do start to become
obvious as the film goes on but if anything it makes everything more
emotional and hammers home the series' message about how important
family is.Overall this entry in the franchise is entertaining from start to
finish and it even has a emotional, but great exit to Paul Walker's
character and to me it's my favourite in the series. I know there are
plans to make an eighth one, but I feel like this one wraps everything
up nicely.
