9
A sprawling space opera full of humor and action.

I remember sitting in Hall H at Comic-Con two years ago, when Marvel
first announced Guardians of the Galaxy. This came on the heels of the
title reveals for Captain America: The Winter Soldier and Thor: The
Dark World, and my initial reaction was one of utter confusion. What
the hell was Guardians of the Galaxy? I was completely unfamiliar with
the source material, and upon learning that the team featured a
gun-wielding raccoon and a fighting tree creature whose could only
speak a single phrase, I was even more puzzled.Fast forward to Comic-Con 2013, when James Gunn appeared onstage in
Hall H to showcase the first trailer for the film. It was so unlike
anything Marvel had ever done before, so far outside the box that I
immediately fell in love with it and couldn't wait to see more.
Although that first trailer was well-received by the Comic-Con
audience, the general public seemed to be scratching their heads in
much the same way that I had when the film was first announced. Marvel
fans would love this, no doubt, but could this bizarre little sci-fi
romp with a cast of unknown characters actually work?The answer is a resounding "yes," as Guardians of the Galaxy is not
only an exceptionally well-made comic-book film, but an exceptionally
well- made film, period. It's a sprawling space opera with a host of
memorable characters, a joyous sci-fi romp through beautifully realized
worlds, wildly inventive action sequences, and an almost nonstop
barrage of humor and fun. The protagonists are a bizarre assembly of
losers and misfits, with the CG-created Rocket and Groot providing some
of the most emotional and human moments of the film, and it's all
brilliant. Marvel should be applauded for allowing Gunn the opportunity
to realize his vision, because rest assured, this film wouldn't have
been nearly as good with someone else at the helm.Guardians of the Galaxy has a distinct personality that sets it apart
from other Marvel offerings, yet there are enough recognizable elements
to remind audiences that it exists in the same world. Clocking in at
just under two hours, the film maintains an impressively well-balanced
pace, avoiding the problem of over-inflation that many superhero films
fall victim to. I can't think of a single moment when I wasn't
completely enthralled with everything that happens on screen, and as
soon as the credits began to roll I was ready to watch it all over
again.
