6
A charming, largely effective twist on a tale that's been told many times before.

You've seen it all before. Strictly speaking, Begin Again doesn't have
the most original of story lines - movies, specifically romantic
comedies and sports movies, have long built their predictable happy
endings out of opposites attracting, spinning tales of Disillusioned
Person A finding inspiration from Disillusioned Person B, and vice
versa. The fact that this film comes with added original music isn't
even that much of an innovation - writer-director John Carney did the
same thing in Once, his own much-beloved musical romance from 2006.
But, for all that, Begin Again remains appealing because it refuses to
settle comfortably into any one genre. Funny, dramatic, romantic and
platonic, the film navigates its cast of characters with much skill and
tenderness.Dan (Mark Ruffalo) is a mess: once a groundbreaking executive of his
own indie record label, he's floundering helplessly in a life he no
longer recognises. He's alienated his wife Miriam (Catherine Keener)
and teenage daughter Violet (Hailee Steinfeld), and his partner Saul
(Yasiin Bey a.k.a. Mos Def) has just fired him. Musically-inclined
Greta (Keira Knightley) isn't having all that great a time of it
either: she moved to New York with her boyfriend Dave (Adam Levine),
but he's too busy having his head turned by fame and other girls as he
hits the big time. When Dan hears Greta singing in a rundown bar, he
resolves to make music with her - even if no one else believes he can
do it.When examined in its broadest strokes, Begin Again isn't anything
special. There's never any doubt that this story will turn out well,
that its protagonists will help each other move out of their dark
romantic pasts. Its deliberately quirky-cute plot veers frequently
towards the corny and predictable, as Dan and Greta set about making
the indie-est of indie albums, guerrilla-style on the streets of New
York. Of course they'll meet like-minded, kooky people who help them
achieve their goal. And yes, Dan will find a way to bond with Violet in
the process, just as Greta figures out just what she wants (or doesn't
want) from her relationship with Dave.But Begin Again is a far better film in its details, largely because
Carney lavishes a lot of thought, love and hope on his characters. Dan,
for one, grows as the film does, the layers of hurt and anger shrouding
him and his bad choices slowly peeling away to reveal the damaged soul
hiding beneath. There's even something unexpectedly rich about the
interaction between Greta and stereotypical bastard boyfriend Dave: he
is every bit the jerk he appears on screen, and yet, Carney lends
credence to their relationship with some genuinely emotional moments,
anchored by a song she writes for him (Lost Stars). Greta's time with
Dave, Carney seems to suggest, is not wasted, even if her trust in him
might be misplaced. That's an unusually complex thought for a film
that's so apparently slight.The way the film ends, too, comes as a welcome surprise. Unlike the
more vapid rom-coms for which it might be easily mistaken, Begin Again
chooses to focus on a deeper kind of love story. The love that Dan and
Greta eventually share is of a pleasingly unique kind - a connection
that isn't romantic or, at least, not purely so. They are also friends
and kindred spirits: relationships that typically get short shrift the
moment a guy and a girl are placed in the same scene together.Having scored a hit with Once, Carney can now afford big-name Hollywood
actors. Fortunately, he also chose A-list actors who have quite enough
skill and charisma to make the hokier parts of the script work. Ruffalo
again manages to lend Dan, a generally rumpled mess of rage, his own
innate charm and sweetness. Even at his most reprehensible, Dan - in
Ruffalo's hands - feels more like a lost soul than an unforgivable one.
Knightley makes up for her less-than-arresting singing voice with her
most sympathetic performance in ages. James Corden turns in an amusing
performance as Greta's hapless panhandling friend Steve, although
Keener - a fine character actress - is robbed of the opportunity to
lend Miriam more depth (especially considering a revelation that comes
later in the film). Better in its execution than conception, Begin Again is an amiably
tough-minded twist on a plot you've seen a thousand times before. The
film never really reaches spectacular heights, nor does it re-invent
the wheel. But it's a smart, sweet and mostly very effective take on a
story that could have been a hundred times more predictable and
cloying. That, in itself, is quite the achievement.
