5
Only good for few Nostalgia-laughs.

You know that one joke you tell at every party? It was hilarious the
first time you told it. So you kept telling it over and over again. You
told your mom, your friends, your wacky uncle and heck you even told it
to your baby sister. Each time you tell that joke it lost some of its
charm and you know this in your heart, but you keep telling it because
it made you someone who was at least bearable at the office party. The
Hangover Part III is THAT dreaded, self-destructive joke. The first The Hangover was a surprise to everyone. It was a smart,
engaging and an all-around funny move. It made the three protagonists
into overnight stars, along with Mr. Chow (Ken Jeong). Since The
Hangover these four guys have experienced great success; Bradley Cooper
has been nominated for an Oscar, Ed Helms became a little more then
Andy from The Office, and Zach Galifianakis (the funniest of the bunch)
starred on HBO's Bored to Death and Ken Jeong is a recurring character
on Community. It's no surprise then that The Hangover made these guys
in demand, and had the audience craving for more. So what better way to
give the masses what they want than bringing the Wolf Pack back
together for two more subpar movies. The Hangover Part III brings the
crew back together for yet another wacky adventure, this time getting
them to go to Tijuana and back to Vegas. There isn't really much to
tell you about the plot that you can't figure out yourself. So it makes
very little sense to go in any further detail about it, and I can move
on to things that worked.By far the funniest moment during the movie for my money's worth was
when some girl in the theater screamed out loud after seeing one of the
main character dangle for his life. The whole theater roared, and it
was a genuinely hilarious moment. Too bad the same can't be said about
the rest of the movie. No doubt there were some funny moments and
personally the best bits of the movie were when Melissa Mccarthy was on
the screen. Some of the other funniest moments were throwbacks to the
original. I found myself doing a lot of "ooh I remember that from the
first movie. Ha ha that reference is funny." Unfortunately that is all
this movie is, it's a reminder of how great The Hangover was and we
should nostalgia- laugh (is something I just made up) because we once
thought there was no one funnier than Zack Galifianakis. Other than
that any original content was drab at best. The best laughs came from all the supporting characters, and the 'Big
3' it felt like were just there to collect the pay check. Bradly Cooper
was by far the worst of the bunch. It's hard to believe that this is
the same guy who was nominated for an Oscar not very long ago. Ed Helms
and Zack Galifianakis were at least trying.It was the overall chemistry of the three characters that made the
original so great. The Hangover was a perfect recipe of Mac and Cheese
where you threw in random ingredients and IT WAS THE BEST MAC AND
CHEESE YOU EVER MADE! You tried replicating the original time after
time, and tasted nothing but cheese and disappointment. It was just
another Mac and Cheese. Sure it was served its purpose of feeding your
broke student ass, but you yearned for that perfect gourmet Mac and
Cheese fit to serve Gordon Ramsay himself. The Hangover Part III is not a movie for people who are looking for
genuine comedy. There are some very funny moments but the cheap laughs
far outnumber the good ones. If you're going in expecting a repeat of
The Hangover then don't waste your time and money. If you were
disappointed by The Hangover Part II this movie will only throw salt on
your wounds. It's sad to see such an initially brilliant trilogy end
like this. Hangover 3 was nothing but one last attempt at squeezing
every last dollar from the franchise. The Hangover Part III gets 5
nostalgia-laughs out of 10.
