10
Love Thine Own Self

Some of the best comedies distinguish the touching hysterical irony of
life's joy and tragedy, and celebrate the very best in people in life's
paradox. "The Edge of Seventeen" is that and much more. First time
Director and Writer Kelly Fremon Craig masterfully navigates that fine
line between cleverer than thou, and the reckoning of one's self. Craig
captures the natural speak of high school kids without some of the
pretense of "Juno". "The Edge of Seventeen" makes you burst out loud
with laughter, and touches your heart. Hailee Steinfeld makes this all
possible. What a revelation. I remember Hailee from the Coen Brothers'
"True Grit"— phenomenal. Here she is a star. Steinfeld's performance is
funny, vulnerable, and fearless. Hers is one the year's best as well. "The Edge of Seventeen" begins somewhere in the middle of the story.
Steinfeld's teen drama queen supreme Nadine interrupts her favorite
teacher Mr. Brunner played by Woody Harrelson, "I'm gonna kill myself…"
After a deadpan stare, Mr. Brunner reads Nadine his own drafted suicide
note. Too funny. Steinfeld artfully invents Nadine as worthy of love,
even when she says the vilest things. She tells literally her only
friend in the world Krista (big hearted Hailey Lu Richardson) to choose
between her and Nadine's brother Darian (dashing and surprising Blake
Jenner). On the ferris wheel ride with Korean American Erwin
(good-looking and whimsical Hayden Szeto), the charming animation nerd
who is so in love with Nadine, she spews out a comical stereotype rift
about of his parents. Then she admits, "All of it was racist." Craig
and Steinfeld compassionately walk that fine line with inspired humor. At a defining story arc, following a drunken indulgence Nadine weeps to
Krista, "I've got to spent the rest of my life...with myself." This is
heartbreaking. Her self-loathing is visceral and sad. Growing up in her
eyes, older brother Darian was her parents' favorite. Not at all his
fault. She constantly clashed with her Mom Mona (Kyra Sedgwick), who
just did not 'get her'. Fortunately, her Dad Tom (patient and kind Eric
Cooper) was not so much the buffer between Nadine and her Mom, rather
the only one who could calm the fear deep in Nadine. As Nadine narrates
everything tragically altered when she was 13 years old. She was with
her Dad when he unexpectedly passed way. Now 17 years old Nadine is a junior in high school and in seemingly
self imposed exile with her only friend Krista (Richardson). Darian
(Jenner) is the high school teenage god—handsome, smart, popular, and
captain of the football team. Mona (Sedgwick) is the overwhelmed single
Mom, venturing in the perils of on-line dating, and grateful for
raising her perfect son. Nadine yearns for "hot" mysterious loner Nick
(Alexander Calvert), who works at the local Pet Land. She indifferently
dismisses Erwin (Szeto), who wears the crush for her on his sleeve.
History teacher Mr. Brunner (Harrelson) is Nadine's only adult
confidant and caustic reality check. Hailee Steinfeld is radiant, pretty, and killer smart as Nadine. She
wears the uniform skirt and cool shoes as eclectic couture. Outwardly,
she would not occur as social pariah. Steinfeld naturally realizes her
social outcast with Nadine's merciless words and her tragic refusal to
love herself. All are armor to cover the hurt buried within her. Waking up from a hangover, Nadine catches Krista 'handling' Darian in a
bedroom tryst. Nadine reacts like Nadine, and life spirals out of
control. She loses her only friend. Her desired rendezvous materializes
and is nearly costly—strikingly and gently envisioned by Craig and
Steinfeld. On the bright side she begins to see the wonderful guy in
Erwin. Now if she could only just 'shut up' long enough. Nadine's words
have a mind of their own: both a curse and an expression of her
miraculous being. Director and Writer Craig eloquently has Nadine's back. Darian and
Krista might have been revealed as selfish jerks. Instead Jenner and
Richardson only have unconditional love for Nadine. Jenner is
impressively strong in the scene with his Mom. He reminds that though
she is the only adult in the house, she calls him when there is
trouble. The theater was silent as he and Nadine say, "Good night."
Sedgwick's vulnerability strengthens the desperation and spirit of
their Mom. Szeto is disarmingly brave and humorously clumsy as Erwin,
who really sees Nadine's beautiful soul. Harrelson is subtle comic
genius, and anchors "The Edge of Seventeen". As Mr. Brunner, we like
Nadine underestimate him. Harrelson's hysterical cynicism masks the
most generous soul. He sees the possibility of greatness in Nadine,
even though she can't, yet. "The Edge of Seventeen" is a wonderful surprise. Hailee Steinfeld is
witty and boldly human as Nadine reluctantly emerges as the hero in her
own story. Her performance is raw— we feel her agony, fear, and joy. We
pull for her Nadine to love thine own self. Above all Nadine deserves
to love and be loved. We can all see the possibility of this for
ourselves as well. "The Edge of Seventeen" is one of the best movies of
the year. Thank you, Hailee and Kelly. You've done great.
