3
Where do I even start? (MAJOR SPOILERS)

When this film started my early impressions of it were good; we have
Kate Winslet arriving back in Australia very much playing against type
as a 'bad-ass' women seeking revenge. Upon hearing her mutter the line
'I have a score to settle here' I thought Yes this is going to be a
really good revenge film. I really couldn't have been more wrong....Tonally & narratively The Dressmaker is a complete mess and it seemed
obvious after about the first 20-30 minutes that the filmmakers seemed
to be unsure how to actually play this film; from the outset it seems
to be about Kate Winslet exacting revenge against those that have
wronged her as a child - however this aspect is then ignored for large
portions of the film and then starts to become a melodrama focusing on
the fraught & rather strained relationship between mother and daughter.
I realise that a lot of narratives will focus on different themes
during their running time, but in The Dressmaker a lot of the time it's
feels like you're watching a sketch-show i.e a series of unrelated
incidents strung together with very little connecting these scenes
together. This is OK in sketch-shows because that's the point of them,
but in a film there needs to be some kind of logical flow and some sort
of cohesion to connect everything together, but there is little
evidence of that here. As well as purportedly being about revenge and
self-discovery the film also throws in other random nonsense such as a
wedding which had nothing to do with the story, one character who is a
police sergeant who likes to dress up in women's clothing (which isn't
particularly funny in the first place). The film also flits backwards
and forwards covering the same ground which makes it also feel very
repetitive - this isn't helped by the fact that the film flits
backwards and forwards a lot whilst doing little to actually move
anything forward!!!. The romance between Kate Winslet and Liam
Hemsworth was nauseating and totally unconvincing - there was just no
chemistry there at all and every time I saw the pair of them on screen
together they made me cringe... Another issue with this film is that
the people and the scenarios never feel believable. I mean the last
time I saw that many crazy people together was when I watched One Flew
Over The Cuckoo's Nest. There are some funny moments, but sometimes the
filmmakers just go overboard and mostly create scenarios that seem more
surreal than real. This set-up is amusing at first, but just gets more
tiresome and less and less believable the further things progress....There were other things I didn't understand such as how come
Myrtle/Tilly and her mother couldn't remember that she'd allegedly
killed someone? And how come later they were able to recall the event?
It's never confirmed that they've suffered amnesia or such like and
we're not given any explanation for their lapses in memory or them
suddenly regaining their memories.Although it generally seems like it's pointless the film does
eventually start to make its point (about 2/3 of the way into the
film). It throws in various twists such as the boy killing himself as
opposed to Myrtle/Tilly killing him. The deceased boy being her brother
and the dead boy's father also being her father. Despite the fact that
it seemed to be trying to create a 'thought-provoking' ending about
moral decency it undoes itself when we learn that Myrtle/Tilly's father
sent her away to get back at her mum which in turn causes Tilly to
exact her revenge on all of the locals??? Even with some of the clever
twists it's still a very weak film with a rather unrewarding pay-off.Thankfully, some of the performances in this film are excellent and
really help to raise this film from the doldrums; Judy Davis is
brilliant as Kate Winslet's mother and rising star Sarah Snook was also
very good. Hugo Weaving is normally a reliable actor but he was
uncharacteristically poor here (but then look at what he had to work
with). Hemsworth smiles a lot and takes off his shirt but contributes
little else. Kate Winslet puts in an above average performance but she
wasn't the star of the show as far as I was concerned.The Dressmaker is roundly a poor film but it does benefit from some
very good performances and Judy Davis is responsible for a lot of the
comedy moments which does make the film tolerable on odd occasions.
