7
I don't understand the hate....

The year is 1949 and Los Angeles is being run by mob king Mickey Cohen.
Now, a secret team of detectives and cops form together to bring him
down and bring peace back to the streets.Gangster Squad was a nice romp back to the days where detectives said
funny lines, smoked indoors and held tommy guns. Here is a film that
looks slick with a nice polish, a great ensemble cast and a story that
has enough meat to it for us to chew on. Yet, people seem to be hating
on it. Did they all expect another Untouchables? Sure, Gangster Squad
has moments where the inspirations from past films peep through, but
not once did this film try to be more than the sum of its means.
Gangster Squad is a fun film, has thrilling moments and will entertain
you. Josh Brolin plays Sgt. John O'Mara, a tough as nails cop who is willing
to put his life on the line for truth and justice. This annoys his very
pregnant wife, who seems ready to pop at any moment. She takes it upon
herself to help form the team he needs in order to protect him. The
team involves: Anthony Mackie, an officer who is deadly with a knife,
Giovanni Ribisi, a smart wire tapper, Robert Patrick, an ace with a
pistol and his protégé Michael Peña whose eager to learn. The last
addition to the team is the young, hot and dangerous Ryan Gosling, who
seems to have found himself entangled with the mob king, Cohen's gal,
played by Emma Stone. There are obvious moments in the film where it tips its hat to
predecessors like L.A. Confidential and the more obvious, The
Untouchables. There is even a sequences involving a stairwell, although
not as tense and more by the numbers shoot em up, the sequence is still
one of the exciting pieces in the film. Both those films are more
intricate with plot, characters and structure, by a mile. Gangster
Squad doesn't focus on stuff like that, it wants to thrill you. Which
is why some sequences in which we are suppose to care whether our
characters live or die don't really pan out.It has a graphic novel feel to it, very film noir and for those who've
played L.A. Noir, will get the same sense of style. While the film
looks great in a lot of sequences, that same style has some short
comings, mainly the use of CGI as movement for the camera. It's the
most noticeable, at least for me, in two scenes. With Josh Brolin in an
elevator early on fighting two crooked guys and the second is when Ryan
Gosling decides to pull his gun out in the middle of a club. The second
scene in question is in slow motion and focuses mainly on his face, but
the jarring background movement opposed to the steadiness of his face
is just that, jarring and it takes you out of the film and makes you
realize you are watching a film.Everyone plays their roles respectively well, even if the team seems
one dimensional. Sean Penn hams it up in a role that demands him to
overact. The make up may distract some, but it added to the character
for me. He was the one who seemed to have the most fun with his role. A
lot of people scream style over substance and this may be true in some
cases. I for one never went into the film expecting writing of another
calibre and thus I found myself enjoying it a tad more. There are some laughable scenes due to how cliché they are. One
involves a character throwing their badge away into the water and
another has the classic, character yelling another character's name as
they walk away, when that person stops and turns, no one says a word.
Moments like these that are played out in numerous films make me yawn
and roll my eyes. So go into Gangster Squad with an open mind, don't expect greatness,
just a fun ride.
