3
A complete disappointment!

Now I know what you're thinking: Steven Soderbergh and a comedy crime
caper set around a NASCAR race is a perfect combo. Those of you who've
seen the Ocean's 11 movies will probably think the same (if you like
the Ocean movies)... Well sadly, I am here to tell you now that you are in for a big
disappointment. I too, have seen Ocean's 11 and found it both funny AND
thrilling and so went into this film with high expectations and was
very badly let down. This film is titled as a comedy but I found it about as funny as a
young boy saying the word "vag***" out loud... Which is what actually
what happens. The real problem of this film is the script, courtesy of Rebecca Blunt.
I found it one of the most boring and UN-amusing pieces of screen
writing I've ever seen. The film is only an hour and fifty-nine minutes but it feels like three
hours before the heist actually takes place and that would be OK, IF
there was material to keep us entertained until then but there just
isn't! Every scene is stretched-out pointlessly long and the dialogue feels
it's just there to make the scene longer. What the dialogue DOES do is
it drags the scene down and makes it boring and uninteresting. People
about anything and everything!After the fresh and fun scenes of Clooney putting his team together in
Ocean's 11, you would think it would be the same in Logan Lucky but
it's actually just as boring as the rest of the dialogue, just people
talking for the sake of talking!Moving on... One thing I will say for Soderbergh is he casts very well
and he seems to get the best from his cast. The main characters give
very good performances. Tatum and Driver turn in performances TOTALLY different to what they
are used to as the dumb, hill billy brothers and actually play the
parts very well. Craig too is like you've NEVER seen him before as the
bleached blond, crazy-eyed Joe Bang and actually plays the part (and
does the accent,for those of you who've seen Cowboys and Aliens)
strongly and with real zest! Any more crazy and he'd be a runner up for
may be the Joker.Good and convincing from ALL supporting actors: Riley Keough, Jack
Quaid and Katie Holmes... However these did little to revive a boring,
non-funny and rather convoluted movie! Only at the end was I REMOTELY entertained but still, I was fighting to
stay awake... What makes this film such a disappointment is how much potential it had
(with the plot) of being a really good and fun film. It makes me wonder
if may be in another director and writer's hands (say: Wes Anderson);
this could have been everything it promised to be but unfortunately,
IT... WAS... NOT!
