8
Art's Not Safe

Went to the first matinée available locally and I am still thinking the
picture over. Will definitely see this one again, if it hasn't left the
theatre abruptly. I was certainly horrified by the film, which is a
good thing, as I had assumed it was a horror picture. It is, of course,
much more than that. Nonetheless, it is NOT The Conjuring or Get Out
(both good films, for sure), so just be warned.By now you are aware that the film has been controversial, also a good
thing. Jennifer Lawrence does a fine job and her career is certainly
not going to suffer for her performance. I am not exactly a JLaw "fan"
(could live without the Hunger Games), although I will pay closer
attention to her future performances, especially if she pulls off more
roles like this one (really liked Winter's Bone, by the way). As I
understand the Hollywood scene, it is a respectable personal decision
to take on a challenging role in an avant garde picture, especially if
you have already banked serious money from popular roles in
blockbusters. Javier Bardem, Michelle Pfeiffer, and Ed Harris also do
their respective parts justice--a well-acted film by A-listers,
overall. Camera work and special effects are also impressive.The story is genuinely disturbing in a Requiem for a Dream way, so
don't go if you can't handle that sort of thing. Some of the violence
is, indeed, OVER THE TOP. Seriously, not for the faint of heart. Aside
from the biblical allegory stuff, I found the character portrayals
creepy as hell in a (sur?)realistic David Lynch-esque way. Hell is
other people!I applaud Mr. Aronofsky for keeping his vision intact all the way to
the big screen. For reference, I just don't need any more movies based
on superheros, comic books (except The Tenth or Gen 13), children's
cartoons, vampires fighting werewolves, or horror stick about
unfriending weirdos on facebook. You will have to make up your own mind on this one, so please do just
that. Even if you end up despising the film, try to remember that, to
quote Rob Zombie, "Art's Not Safe."
