6
Considerable talent in a sinking ship

"Amityville: The Awakening" is the tenth installment in the
"Amityville" series (but honestly, who's counting anymore?), and it
follows Belle, a teenager girl who move into the famed 112 Ocean Avenue
with her mother, little sister, and brain-dead twin brother on life
support. Bad things happen, including her brother become a vessel for
demonic energy.It's been a long road for "Amityville: The Awakening": I remember
seeing trailers at the movie theater for it at least two years ago, but
it had numerous delays in typical Weinstein Company fashion—it also, if
my suspicious are correct, was chopped to pieces by the Weinstein
Company's subsidiary Dimension Films, who distributed (or were supposed
to distribute) the film. I have a soft spot for the "Amityville" movies, and have found even the
worst of the installments at least amusing—what can I say? I love a
haunted house flick. "The Awakening" starts out rather nicely with
atmospheric, mundane goings-on as the family settles in, punctuated by
genuinely chilling moments: On their second day in the home, the little
sister says to Belle that their brother, James, has been cursing at
her. The punchline? James is brain-dead and in a vegetative state.
These sorts of moments in "The Awakening" genuinely work, and Franck
Khalfoun's script gets meta when Bella and her outcast friends have an
"Amityville Horror" movie marathon at the Amityville House. As they're
watching the infamous "red room" scene from the 1979 original, the
power goes out; it's 3:15am. While this move is risky in that it
relegates all the other "Amityville" films to fiction, it's clever.Unfortunately, as the film progresses, things get sloppier and
sloppier; uneven editing and pacing matches uneven development of plot
lines that are fairly one-note to begin with. About three- quarters of
the way through, one begins to realize that there really is not much
happening; the subtleties of the first act lead to payoffs that are
frankly not that interesting. As I mentioned before, it's difficult to
say who is at fault for the film's shortcomings, as the Weinsteins are
notorious for cutting films to pieces (see "Halloween: The Curse of
Michael Myers," or "Cursed" for reference), and a lot of the issues
come from what seems to be bad editing. Franck Khalfoun proved himself
a talent in my eyes with 2007's "P2," and with people like Jennifer
Jason Leigh, Kurtwood Smith, and Jennifer Morrison on board, there is
considerable talent here. The young cast is even quite good, with Bella
Thorne playing a sympathetic lead.In the end, "Amityville: The Awakening" is actually one of the better
sequels in the series, if we can call it that, and while it does offer
some subtle and clever moments, it spins its wheels in the last act and
errs into a rote, albeit shoddily-pieced-together conclusion. For
series diehards, it's a must-see for the reasons I've stated above, but
in general, it's a fairly unremarkable effort. 6/10.
