1
This movie is. so. bad.

I just finished watching this movie and I'm just sitting here wondering
how and why this movie even got made... It is probably one of the worst
horror movies I've ever had the misfortune to watch. It honestly has no
coherent plot except what it ripped from the original (which I don't
understand who decided that movie needed a remake because it's an
amazing classic). The characters in this movie are some of the
stupidest I've ever seen. Honestly, all of them deserved to die. So
when you find a book that's bound in human flesh your FIRST instinct is
to read from said book? Oh your sister is possessed by a demon and is
basically infecting everyone with it but let's not kill her because she
starts singing a song from your childhood? You want to go down in the
basement with her even though she's killed practically everyone? I
didn't root for any of these characters. Whenever the possessed people
would talk I found myself just laughing because it was so forced. It's
like they were trying to be scary and intimidating but it just came off
like characters from Scary Movie. The actors in this movie have the
intelligence of a bag of rocks and the acting range of Kristen Stewart. This movie is also torture porn at it's finest. Why do directors think
this gruesome violence makes for good film making? I mean this bitch
gets raped by a tree. What..? Then she starts infecting everyone like
an STD or something, even forcing one girl to make out with her after
she's split her tongue in half with a box cutter. It's basically blood
on top of blood mixed in with other bodily fluids. At one point a girl
gets her arm pinned under a car while some demon is crawling towards
her. So she rips her arm out from under the car and is able to get up
and pick up a chainsaw to kill the demon. No shock? She didn't pass out
from unimaginable pain that would have caused? I'm also glad that a
human arm can be ripped off like it's made of jelly and it has no
ligaments, tendons, or bone. Hooray for realism! I understand horror
movies are not about realism but come on, you can do better than that.
I DVRed this movie and actually found myself checking to see if it was
almost over. It's so bad, don't waste your time. Glad I didn't see this
movie in the theater. Hollywood, please, for the love of all that is
holy, STOP DOING REMAKES.
