8
Joel Edgerton simply gave us one of the greatest thrillers of this year!

The Gift follows married couple Simon and Robyn who get a unexpected
encounter from Gordo, an acquaintance from Simon's past. At first,
Simon doesn't recognize Gordo, but after a troubling series of
uninvited encounters and mysterious gifts, a horrifying secret emerges.
Little do they know that their perfect lives are about to be thrown
into a terrifying tailspin.This film standing as Joel Edgerton's directional debut, I must say is
pretty impressive. This was a well crafted thriller put together by
Edgerton, it wasn't as predictable as most thrillers are these days, it
was simply one where our expectations keep getting pummeled to ground
from how the story keeps transitioning.Everyone in this were simply astonishing, Edgerton played such a
compelling creepy loner with so much aplomb, Hall played her role
perfectly as a depressed woman that can't stress enough with all the
fear and for Bateman, coming from his comedic standpoint, simply
impressed as the husband with one troubling past. Round of applause to
each and everyone!The film builds an effective sense of suspense and disbelief, you don't
know what to believe from all the turn of events. The story was told so
fluently with the suspense, is wasn't cheap or hasty but more chilling
and grim when it came to the very well paced manner, it doesn't simply
spoonfeed us with everything it's doing but really lets us take the
turn for worst with each surprise hiding at each corner.The Gift was simply a shot in the dark when it let loose from the
formulaic genre it was hanging off of. This nerve-wracking thriller
maturely sends this main couple spiraling out of control as Edgerton
simply starts to turn their life upside down by downgrading their
relationship piece by piece. You can never tell who's the main
protagonist, Is It Bateman? Is it Hall? Is It Edgerton? You can't
really seem to tell until the surprise-filled ending that takes a
wonderfully warped take on long-ranged karma. The Gift most certainly
gave deliberate pacing, believable characters, and masterful
understanding of cinematic suspense, Edgerton really proved that this
film shouldn't be the last present we receive from him.
