3
This may be the worst addition to the MCU yet

So Disneys: Marvels: Avengers: Captain America: Civil War was basically
a pile of garbage. The fight scene with Spidey and Ant Man and the
introduction of Black Panther were the only real redeeming factors.It failed as a movie and it failed as an adaptation of the comic
series. One thing that really made me think that it failed as an
adaptation is that while I sided with Stark in the comics, I can't help
but to side with Captain America in the movie. If the adaptation was
even vaguely faithful or decent my opinion should have stayed
unchanged.But ignoring the original work, because the movie has to be judged on
its own merits as well, it was pretty darn bad. The funeral scene was
so cheesy, out of place and just bad that I actually briefly considered
walking out. I couldn't believe I'd spent so much money to see this
movie at the theatre.My opinion of this movie would probably be quite a bit better if they
actually had the guts to kill off a single character in Civil War. When
nobody is going to die and we all know it, all the drama and suspense
are just instantly gone. It immediately goes from watching a tense
battle sequence that could change the whole cinematic universe to a
pretty light show.And the big climactic battle between Iron Man, Captain America and
Bucky in Civil War was so dark you can't tell what's going on for half
of the scene. That is a cardinal sin in film making. If you can't tell
what the heck is happening, the scene is pointless and uninteresting.I obviously have a lot more gripes with this 250 million dollar mistake
but I don't feel like writing an essay and nobody would read a review
that long and detailed anyway. It would probably take longer for me to
explain all of the issues I had with the film than it would for you to
just watch it and decide for yourself, but I can't say I'd recommend
doing that.This is perhaps the worst entry into the MCU, barring only The
Incredible Hulk. This movie was so bad I'd even rank it under Thor 2
and Captain America: The First Avenger in the ever-growing list of
Marvel missteps.
