9
Apocalypse Cancelled!

Pacific Rim is the most ambitious project undertaken by Guillermo del
Toro at this point in his career. I'm a huge fan of his work. Pan's
Labyrinth and the Hellboy films are among my personal favorites. Anime
fanatics who are familiar with Neon Genesis Evangelion will be quick to
notice the striking resemblance to some of the "mecha" (giant robots)
featured in the movie, but the similarity ends there. Although the
majority of big-budgeted Hollywood movies that have been released over
the years were derived from comic books, classic cartoons or novels
with a solid fan base, this film is a cut above the rest. Del Toro took
a risk and created his own version of "Transformers" far relieved from
Michael Bay's commercial-like robots and in all honesty,he just might
give him a run for his money. In a not-so-distant future where giant beasts or "Kaiju" wreak havoc in
major cities across the globe, our only fighting chance of defeating
these creatures is through the Jaeger Program. The giant robots aptly
called "Jaeger" are driven by two pilots where it's controlled
simultaneously by melding their minds through a neural bridge. I'm not
going into further detail but they completely redefined what "drifting"
means. Other countries have joined the Jaeger Program including China,
Russia and Japan but Australia's Striker Eureka and USA's Gypsy Danger
were given more screen time. The intense battle scenes between the
Jaegers and several types of Kaiju are almost surreal. I don't even
know why they have to reboot "Godzilla" when this film just showed us
several versions of his ilk. There was one particular scene when the
Kaiju decided to take off with his bat-inspired wings and Gypsy Danger
have no other choice but to shift into Voltron-mode wielding an
enormous sword while suspended in outer space ( I guess they're trying
to pay tribute to the classic Japanese anime).Charlie Hunnam was the perfect choice to play Raleigh Becket, a Jaeger
pilot with a rebellious streak and the film's main protagonist.
Becket's new co-pilot Mako Mori portrayed by Rinko Kikuchi played her
part well despite her English sounding more like Japanese. However, she
compensated for it with her remarkable Kendo fighting skills. Idris
Elba who played Stacker Pentecost,leader of the Jaeger program
delivered his part exceptionally well and steals every scene he's in.
Even "Hellboy" star Ron Perlman had a small role as Hannibal Chau, a
black market dealer for everything Kaiju-related. The remaining cast
did what was expected from their respective roles. There's so much visual feast in this movie to revel in for fans of the
genre and for the average moviegoer looking for a more satisfying
cinematic experience. After watching a plethora of blockbuster movies
in IMAX 3D, I have to say Pacific Rim is a standalone film that will
captivate you from start to finish.
