9
By-The-Numbers, Yet Completely Original

This movie first snatched my attention as an obscure trailer, something
that popped up while I was habitually browsing the web. From that
moment I absolutely fell in love with it, it's light humour and perfect
chemistry between all of the cast. It still remains to this day one of
my favourite trailers of all time, and one I would routinely check in
on every now and then leading up to the movie's release, so that I
could remind myself why I was excited to see the actual film, and not a
two minute summary. Yet I obviously had reservations. Too many of us
have been betrayed by trailers, advertising movies that don't exist or
are completely different to the one actually presented (and payed for).
"Don't get your hopes up", I would say to myself. "There's every chance
this movie will be one of the worst of the year." Then I heard reports
of standing ovations at Sundance and as the generally favourable
reviews began to trickle in my hopes defiantly rose. And I'm so
immensely happy they did, because this movie, and it's subsequent
trailer, absolutely nailed it. The humour was refreshingly real and hilarious, as were the
relationships, with the two leads Jason Sudeikis and Alison Brie
absolutely deserving a mention for being particularly amazing together.
A shout out to Jason Mantzoukas and Andrea Savage also - thanks to
them, if you turn this movie off the moment you see the credits you're
missing one of its funniest and most heartwarming parts. However, as my title probably suggested, this movie is still a pretty
by-the-numbers romcom, and is semi-predictable plot-wise (wow, I used a
lot of dashes in that sentence, please forgive me). That cliché that
just ran through your head when I mentioned the word romcom - yeah, it
is probably in this movie. Except for kissing in the rain,
surprisingly. Actually, now that I think about it, the only scene (that
comes to mind) with rain even in it is the one where Sudeikis is pushed
in front of and hit by a car. Okay let me revise that; only *most* of
the normal romcom clichés are in this movie. But there's a reason that
movie genres can become so formulaic - sometimes the formula truly does
work. With the fantastic writing and directing, the brilliant acting and
helpful injection of fresh ideas into a generally stale formula, this
movie manages to be truly entertaining from start to finish. I found
myself intoxicated by the relationship of two wholly fictional people,
engrossed in their journey both towards and away from one another. I
thought the ending could have been a little more poignant and in theme
with the rest of the movie, but it was still a supremely satisfying
conclusion to a story I'm amazed managed to exceed my hopes and
expectations. Truly, a fantastic film.
