3
Just another bad found footage film

At only 82 minutes long, it's surprising how much of a chore this movie
was to watch. I saw this film on netflix and, while being skeptical, I
thought it could possibly be an above average horror flick. Not
anything groundbreaking, but still better than others. Sadly, what I
didn't know before watching this film was that it was produced by
Blumhouse. As Blumhouse is known for, this film is filled with a load
of pointless jumpscares in order to 'scare its audience'. But, rather
than scaring you, the jumpscares absolutely ruin the tension and are
just used as a substitute for horrific ideas and visuals. Instead of
having a slow build up and reveal of Mark Duplass's insane character
and having it be three- dimensional, instead the atmosphere and tension
are paper thin and every now and then it goes 'BOO!'. My main gripe
with this film is Mark Duplass's character and how they try to slowly
develop him over the course of the film but he just ends up being weird
for the sake of being weird. While the movie makes it seem like he is
supposed to be some sort of mysterious killer or something like that,
his behavior just comes off as random rather than having some sort of
purpose. He doesn't really have a personality, he is just whatever the
script wants him to be at that point. The main character, while making
some dumb decisions, is not as dumb as most horror movie protagonists.
While I do not like this film at all, there were a few good things
about the film. Some moments later in the film with the main character
trying to escape the house are genuinely creepy. Also, there's a lot of
potential to the story of this film, but it just falls flat on it's
face. The setting is nice and while I respect the movie trying to just
use one setting with only two characters, it came off to me at least
that this was more to save money than to fulfill some artistic vision.
Overall, I would recommend to stay away from this film. With bad
writing and directing, no scares, and being boring as watching yarn for
82 minutes, this is most definitely typical found footage schlock.
