7
A Thoroughly Conflicting Night of Emotions

Well, that has to be the most conflicting movie experience I've ever
known. I was invited to the premiere of The Dressmaker last night and
I'm unsure whether I can say I loved it, hated it, thought it was
hilarious, found it terribly sad, was frustrated because it was so
weird or enjoyed it because some of the characters were so endearing -
this movie caused all of these emotions and more. It's certainly
entertaining - just so many roller-coaster sensations within the space
of only a few minutes. A viewer will fluctuate continually between
laughing raucously one minute only to find themselves experiencing deep
sadness, anger, confusion or just plain asking yourself 'Why did they
include this?' with the next breath. And they're a mix of the most
quirky / weird / unlikeable / endearing / heartwarming characters I've
ever seen / met. There was one character I didn't like at all, even
though at some stages I still found myself laughing at some of their
antics. I'm sure many readers will either disagree with me or think I'm
referring to someone else - but that's okay, that's what makes us all
different. The Dressmaker is definitely worth a look but not something
I'd pay to see again - mainly because of the inclusion of that one
character already referred to. This movie is very very dark in places
and the ending is definitely not what you expect! The dialogue flurries
and stubborn, though endearing, rapport constantly firing between Kate
Winslet and Judy Davies are exceptional and certainly to be applauded.
A very big hats off to Kate for a wonderful portrayal of an Aussie
accent - you would swear she is a true blue Aussie. I have never heard
anyone who wasn't born here to pull off an Aussie accent with such
authenticity as she showed in this. Proves her calibre as an actress
and the exceptional talent of Victoria Mielewska, her dialogue coach.
Added to all of this, the budget must have been huge as every single
person involved was easily recognisable from another movie or TV series
- and most of them big Aussie names. So don't bother asking me whether
you should go and see it - you'll just have to go along and see for
yourself - but I can almost guarantee it's definitely not at all what
you'll be expecting. And interestingly, other ladies in two book clubs
I am connected to said they felt exactly the same with both the book
and the film.
