9
THIS is how you create a FRANCHISE!

If there's one impression that Kick-Ass 2 left with me, it's this; This
is one damn-fun movie, and a damn-fun franchise. This movie is also pretty ambitious - there's a hell of a lot going on
throughout this whole film, but they find a great way to balance all of
the different angles going on, without overloading you at any time.
Versatile is the word that comes to mind...let's run through the main
points:Pros: - Great casting, and solid acting. Don't expect any nominations, but it
seems that every character has just the right actor for the job. Aaron
Traylor-Johnson has clearly put a lot of work into this, because it
looks like he's been working out with Chris Hemsworth and the rest of
the Avengers. Chloë Grace Moretz is the perfect "Hit-Girl". Christopher
Mintz-Plasse nails his character. Jim Carrey is great. John Leguizamo
is in this! That guy deserves more work. And the movie deserves an
award just for even coming up with a character named "Mother Russia". - ACTION SEQUENCES. The 1st movie executed these to perfection, and the
sequel follows suit. A great mix of high-level, slightly over-the-top
martial arts action, lower-level brawling fights, gun play, high-speed
chases, and even some explosions! And the soundtrack for these
sequences deserves a mention. (When you have the previously-mentioned
"Mother Russia" on a rampage, and a remix of the damn theme song from
"Tetris" is playing in the background...you've won.) - This movie is damn funny. You will laugh. - Surprisingly emotional! There are a few scenes here and there that
might just pull a heart string...they don't feel overly cheezy, and fit
right in with the story...even the "Mean Girls" scenes.Cons: - ........ ***thinking hard*** ...if I had to nit-pick, I could say
that the movie almost goes too fast through a pretty major part. The
movie is pretty fast paced throughout, but it might feel like a
particular event may have deserved a bit more time to dwell on. - Jim Carrey and John Leguizamo could have been utilized more. They
were both great, but with so much going on here, it may have been tough
to squeeze an extra scene or two for them.Now, the inevitable comparison: how does it compare to the original? If
I had to make a choice, I've got the take the original over this one.
That's not a knock on this sequel - it's very worthy of the franchise.
But the original was so epic, that matching it was always going to be a
challenge. I'll say this though...the sequel comes pretty damn close,
and which one you prefer may easily be different from my choice.Overall, this is a damn good time at the movies...dammit. (I've just
now noticed how many times I've used that word in this review...damn.)
Get your popcorn and your snacks, get your seats, kick back, and kick
some ass.Kick-Ass 2 scores a 4.25 out of 5 on the BDBOS. Good job.STAY THROUGH THE CREDITS!!! There's a bonus scene at the end that you
will get a kick out out. Well..maybe "kick" isn't the right word to
use...you'll see what I mean... :)(Hey there. Thanks for reading all of this. Really. Having your
eyeballs all over this means the world to me. Especially those sexy
eyeballs of yours. They're spectacular. Do you work them out? It looks
like it. Listen, I'm not just trying to sweet-talk you into
thumb-upping my review, or talk you into stopping by my page
(www.facebook.com/TheBDBOS), because that would be cheap. I'm just
saying that if there was a sexy-eyeball pageant somewhere, you'd easily
make the top 3. Have you ever thought about modeling? You should. You'd
be great at it. In fact, I may know a guy...)
