8
Terrific collection of "found footage" horror!

Saw this at the Fantasia film festival and I hope to have an
opportunity to see it with an audience again, as I'm not sure the film
would be as effective if one were to watch it alone at home. In any
case, V/H/S is a collection of short "found footage" horror films
produced by Brad Miska, the man behind bloody-disgusting.com. It
features the directing talents of several established Indy filmmakers
including David Bruckner (THE SIGNAL), Ti West (THE INNKEEPERS), Glenn
McQuaid (STAKE LAND), Adam Wingard (A HORRIBLE WAY TO DIE), noted
mumblecore actor/director Joe Swanburg, and the popular internet video
collective known as Radio Silence (best known for the various CHAD,
MATT & ROB INTERACTIVE ADVENTURE's). I enjoyed each and every segment, though the two the stand up the best
to post-Experience scrutiny are probably Bruckner's (AMATEUR NIGHT) and
Swanburg's (THE STRANGE THING THAT HAPPENED TO EMILY WHEN SHE WAS
YOUNG). In AMATEUR NIGHT, a couple of guys give a pair of Spycam
glasses to a friend and the three go out to have a wild night on the
town. They end up bringing two young woman back to their apartment, one
of whom seems extremely "game", while the other might as well actually
BE game, in as much as she behaves like an excited, yet cautious
animal, her eyes always bugged out, her head turning sharply and
rapidly at every movement or sound, and rather than speak, she hisses
in barely intelligible verbalized feral spurts. And sure enough, once
her clothes come off, one discovers that there's much more to this gal
than could ever have been imagined. As for STRANGE THING THAT HAPPENED TO EMILY, this one involves a series
of (often stationary) Skype video conversations between a man and a
women, the later convinced that a peculiar entity is inside her house,
perhaps the ghost of a child with which she hopes to communicate while
her boyfriend helplessly looks on through the laptop screen. Those who
easily get queasy from constant "swingcam" footage, will be
particularly pleased with the inclusion of this one.The other segments are: Second Honeymoon (Ti West) - A couple's
vacation is compromised by a mysterious nocturnal intruder.Tuesday the 17th (Glenn McQuaid) - A young woman is not honest about
her intentions when she brings her friends out to a secluded spot in
the woods where several murders once occurred.10/31/98 (Radio Silence) - Friends set off for a party dressed up in
lame Halloween costumes, but instead of arriving at their intended
destination, they find themselves in a demoniacally haunted house at
the absolute worst time possible.and the wraparound... Tape 56 (Adam Wingard) - Some guys are paid to
break into a house and steal a video tape. When they get there they
find a dead man and DOZENS of tapes. In order to find the tape they've
been asked to steal, they begin watching the tapes one after another
(the other 5 stories being what they find on those tapes).
