8
Way better than you might think.

I'm guessing this is a bit of a Marmite movie. Even though I hate
Marmite, I loved this movie. That is the wonder of Marmite! So we have
a drug-growing, likable threesome that falls afoul of a drug cartel and
has to go on the offensive when things turn ugly.So, things I took away from this movie, which isn't terribly realistic.1. Getting involved in the drug business (in any way, shape or form) is
ultimately bad for you. Who knew? 2. Drug cartels are brutal and violent. Cops can be corrupt. Again, who
knew.3. Love conquers all. Pretty obvious, that one.So, having been muscled in on by the cartel, our threesome decides to
get out and skip town. But the nasty drug-lords want their prize (in
this case a special type of pot grown by one of the guys). So they
kidnap the shared girlfriend and hold the guys to ransom over their
secrets.Savages is terribly violent, and not for the squeamish. It also
glamorises the drug trade somewhat (though see point 1. above). There
is also the three-way relationship between the two men and their shared
lady, which some people, who only think in black and white, obviously,
seem to find almost as objectionable as the drugs and violence.I won't argue for a minute that drugs are good, or that violence is
always necessary in a movie. But here, it does work rather well. There
is some confusion on the movie's part as to whether it wants to be
deadly serious, or somewhat tongue-in-cheek. You can be faced with
nasty, hideous violence one moment, and then you are laughing at the
next scene. In short, it's a little bit Jekyll and Hyde. This can be a
little bit unsettling, I grant you. It would have been better if they
had stuck to one tonal level.Right, the threesome. Putting aside the various level of acting
ability, what's wrong with that? Nothing. Someone said that "O" (the
female of the triplet) was a slut and couldn't decide who she loved.
Black and white thinking, sorry. It is perfectly possible for one
person to love two people and no, they don't actually have to be
emotionally damaged to do it. I'll grant you, that the dynamic and
setup of this trio needed more explanation, but it was fairly well
covered, in the scenes they did give us. But I'll help out the
emotionally hard-of-understanding with the following simple summation:
The guys both loved "O" so much that they would rather share her than
forcing her to make a choice that could ruin their friendships,
because, let's face it, if you are in that situation and forced to make
a choice, you'll ("O") choose neither (because it wouldn't be fair to
choose one over the other) and go your separate ways, probably leading
to the collapse of the guys friendship as well (they'll blame each
other). In short, the relationship as it is, is a stable one.Phew! Right! Back to the characters! Well, the two guys are chalk and
cheese. Most of the character development (there is some) is focused on
Ben's character. He's the peace-loving one that goes down a bit of a
dark path on the journey to rescue "O" from the drug lords. As
portrayed, both Chon and "O" (I have no idea why I keep putting her
name in quotes) are damaged individuals who rely on Ben to keep them
grounded (even though they are more often than not high). Ben's journey
damages them, because they have to witness it, and don't much like
being reminded of their own faults, which Ben mirrors towards the end.It's a pretty brutal film overall, and not for everyone. I actually
enjoyed it considerably because it was different from the usual
Hollywood pap. I don't think it was one of Stone's best movies, but top
marks to the guy for continuing to take on difficult matériel.The ending is best described as "Marmite-within-Marmite". Look what
happened! Oh no! Wait, that wasn't it at all! But it does, at least,
allow you to blank out one or the other in your head in order to
satisfy your particular needs as regards an ending.I'll also point out that the threesome is a key ingredient in both
endings and that neither ending is particularly satisfying to the
viewer, making the point that things don't all work out for the best,
even if characters live.SUMMATION: Dark and brutal and not for everyone's tastes. But it is a
little different and that is what makes it enjoyable.TOP TIP: Not really a date movie. Do not take your girlfriend and her
hot sister to see it thinking you might all end up in bed together. It
won't end well.
