5
The Last Witch Hunter casts many mismatched fantasy gimmicks like a desperate magician, lacking identity and any real magic.

Say what you will about Vin Diesel, the guy has performed a variety of
roles. From the famous furious action series, sci-fi, family comedy and
even the lesser known crime drama, he's a legitimate blockbuster draw.
However, in his recent fantasy escapade, he's bogged down by the same
flaws from Constantine and even Van Helsing; far too much stylish
fireworks and lacking any real focus on narrative.The Last Witch Hunter tells the story of Kaulder, an immortal who hunts
witches for centuries. Straight from the first act, the movie tries to
jam as many expositions as possible while panning through myriad of
hidden exotic locations practically every five minutes. It feels like a
rushed tour of New York and none of CGI view made lasting impression.This is a missed opportunity since the occult version of modern city is
teeming with potential. Other movies, even comic books and video games
have used this premise to captivate audience effectively. The
screenplay could've showcased the mythology with calm pace and
imaginative scenery, yet the movie abruptly shifts between uninspiring
random clubs, which makes the entire environment seems generic.It doesn't have to be Hellboy 2 level of sophistication, but the lore
available feels terribly underutilized. Visual is mostly crafted with
CG, and the action is mediocre with crude choreography. Underneath the
cosmetic spells, the production value feels simply average, far too
similar to Constantine from last decade.This rushed pace is also translated to the characters, which appear
like random strangers meshed together and suddenly given strange
development. This is not on Vin Diesel alone, the movie has good acting
prowess with Elijah Wood and Michael Caine, among others, however the
characters are nothing more than stereotypical eccentric magicians or
familiar villain. At some points it even looks like some cop procedural
series with awkward buddy gimmick.Lastly, Vin Diesel himself isn't that convincing even though he's
groomed for superhero epic. In fact, he fared much better as Riddick,
at least he had an identity as the stealthy assassin. While as Kaulder
he's just another grunting protagonist despite the presentable physique
or the grand attire.The Last Witch Hunter is a fantasy foray filled with shallow parlor
tricks and incompatible hero in Vin Diesel. It had potential to be
spectacular, but the shoddy presentation only offers pedestrian
exhibition.
