2
As Bad as the Crtitics say it is.

When the trailer for After Earth showed, I thought to myself "Hey this
could be a good movie". I should have seen the warning signs from the
get go. This movie is easily one of M. Nights worst movies, and
honestly I cant help but feel this might be his last.Some people are blindly defending his movie for the sake that Will
Smith is in it, and he can do no wrong. Trust me, this movie proves he
can. His role in the movie is almost pointless, instead of having a
father/son duo adventure, he is injured in the crash and has to sit in
the ship and guide Jaden throughout the entire movie, basically taking
Will Smith out of a Will Smith movie, and on top of that his
performance is so stiff and wooden, that you wonder if he is reading
off cue cards.Speaking of performances, Jaden gives out one of the worst of 2013 by
far. The movie should not have been based around him at all. His lines
are bad, his acting is stiff, and his emotions are non existent. Jaden
is a rising star, but this does nothing to help his cause, however this
movie made Will Smith look bad so I'm giving him the benefit of the
doubt.The story is also a major downfall. It is so predictable, it looks like
a 10 year old wrote it, I'm literally calling every scene as it
unfolds, the pacing was bad, the ending was underwhelming and
predictable, and this movie does nothing that any other Sci-Fi movie
hasn't done in the past. But its not all bad, I actually liked the
effects as they were rally beautiful at times, however unless you are
Avatar, where the effects are so groundbreaking that it hides a generic
story, special effects cannot save a movie alone, as was the case here.After Earth is the latest setback in M. Night's once promising career,
a man that once had everything going for him, now might not even be
allowed to direct cinema anymore. I'm now starting to believe that he
stole the script for the 6th Sense, cause I still cant accept the fact
that the same guy who directed this and Last Airbender, directed such a
classic. People don't like to listen to critics, but honestly this is a
time where you should. This movie was all around bad, with some decent
effects and nothing more. People save your $10.50 o however much you
would pay to see this, and ether avoid this movie altogether or red box
it, by no means does this "movie" deserve your hard earned cash.Score: 2 out of 10 (avoids a 1 from having some good effects)
