1
5 things that would have made this movie better

When I first heard this film was coming out, I decided to read the two
books on which the movie was based (Enders Game & Enders Shadow). I
really enjoyed the books and was confident that with a bit of thought
they could make a decent screenplay that would be true to the story in
the books as well as being entertaining to watch. Like many others, I
was incredibly disappointed with the movie. Here are 5 things that
would have improved it greatly: 1) Show the passage of time: Whilst I understand that it would be
tricky to show the 5 years or so Ender is in battle school, having him
writing an email saying 'we have been studying for months' doesn't
really cut it. Everything moves so fast that you get the impression he
has only been there a few weeks. This prevented something essential to
most movies, character development. 2) Show Battle School as a school: Much of the book is about how the
battle room games shape and define Enders character as a person and
(eventually) a leader/commander. This is barely touched on the movie
with the few battle room scenes being very disappointing and Ender
becoming both an expert in the battle room and leader of an army within
what seems like a week! Also, in the books there are a few hundred
children at battle school, a lot more than the sparse 50 or so we see
in the movie. Even classic Star Trek gave the impression of a large
crew on the Enterprise by having extras walking in the corridors, how
hard can it be to copy that?3) Show that Ender is truly on his own: In the book, Ender doesn't have
any friends as such, he has to earn respect by becoming the best in the
battles, then people start to follow him. When Ender arrives, Graff
says that Ender has to feel alone, but from then on he always has
someone to help him or be his friend. 4) More Bean, less Petra: Petra is a great character in the books,
because she is a bit of a b**ch! Yes, she helps Ender with shooting
practise but she is fairly ambivalent towards him the rest of the time.
Bean is the person who Ender eventually trusts the most, and even
confides in. In the movie, far too much emphasis was put on Petra's
relationship with Ender (she didn't even seem like the 'real' Petra to
me) whereas Bean is just a face in the crowd. 5) Show Ender getting tired: Even if they failed in all the other
areas, they could at least have made Ender look tired from all the
battle games! His exhaustion is what drives him to 'quit', again this
doesn't come across at all in the movie. How hard could it be to show
that? I could write more, but in summary this movie was an epic fail with
very few redeeming qualities. The sad thing is, it could have been one
of the greatest sci-fi movies ever, but instead they traded the 'soul'
of the book for a few flashy effects and a lightweight story. Somewhere
in the process the real Ender's Game got lost.
