6
Comparing to The Conjuring makes this feel like a disappointment. Still worth watching!

Let me start off by stating that as a devout Horror fan with a special
liking to ghost stories, haunts and exorcisms, I have really enjoyed
The Conjuring. Therefore, my anticipation towards this pseudo- prequel
is to be understood, as well as my disappointment...Perhaps it was the fact that James Wan was only an executive producer
of this film that has made it wreak of mediocrity, especially compared
to the first. Most of this film's component are exactly that: mediocre.
The acting lacked the charisma and screen presence of Patrick Wilson
(Ed Warren in The Conjuring), though I must say that Alfre Woodard
(Evelyn) and Tony Amendola (Father Perez) were certain light spots. The
story feels like it came out of an automated template machine given the
basic "create me a mediocre haunting story" order, and again, compared
to The Conjuring simply doesn't make the cut.So why the slightly generous rating? For a few reasons:1) Say what you will, that doll is one of the scariest, creepiest and
most horrifying things I have ever seen both on screen and in life.
Whoever created that doll's exterior should be either given a reward
for being a genius or committed to a mental ward for being sick in the
head (and I say that with the utmost respect, that doll is a work of
art). Unlike The Conjuring, Annabelle gives the doll a lot more well
deserved screen time.2) The cinematography is at its best with the quick shots, giving the
audience sometimes less than a second to realize what they're seeing.
Showing demons, ghosts and such evil presences in that manner really
adds to the fear factor in my opinion, for Hollywood is yet to realize
how to portrait a demon that is scary for those of us who aren't
religious Christians (and I say that with no disrespect whatsoever to
Christians or Christianity). I like to use Insidious (another Wanderful
masterpiece, if you haven't seen it stop reading RIGHT NOW and go see
it) as an example - the one thing really lowering the film is the demon
shown there. In Annabelle, demons are shown, but for a snap shot,
leaving much to imagination which serves to add to the scare gauage.3) Plot actually gets pretty intense towards the end, but only towards
the end.So all in all, perhaps had I watched this film before The Conjuring I
would have been able to be more objective, but seeing as how I am
unable to ignore it's shortcomings - I give it 6.5, meaning you should
definitely watch it (especially if you liked The Conjuring) but you
shouldn't expect it to meet The Conjuring's level.
