10
Six stories of frustration leading to joyous revenge

The Spanish title is more apt: Savage Tales. Six short stories show
various ways in which savagery persists in the highest levels of
civilization. The titles appear against a montage of wild animals. The
twist is that here the savagery is celebrated not rued. Where
civilization was supposed to free us from savagery, as in the American
Western, here the savagery liberates the characters from their
civilization. As director Damian Szifron told the Palm Springs festival
audience, "The theme is the pleasure of losing control. Releasing the
beast."In each story a modern frustration wells up until the character erupts.
All the stories involve a furious revenge, with a broadening range of
characters. To convey the tensions in modern life, ordinary sounds are
amplified, like the luggage wheels in the opening shot. In the pre-credit tale, the pilot turns out to be a lifelong failure
who has collected the various teachers, friends, psychiatrist, who have
thwarted him, on a flight he will crash into his parents. In a diner the waitress recognizes a customer as the smalltown gangster
who drove her father into bankruptcy and suicide. Now running for
mayor, he is rude and abusive. As her anger and conscience struggle the
cook takes over and kills him. She's content to return to the security
and comfort of jail.An Audi driver rages at a redneck who blocks his way. When the rich guy
stops to fix a flat tire his nemesis stops and assaults him. The road
rage turns into class warfare. Ironically, when they're found burned
alive their clutch suggests it was a crime passionel.When an explosives expert gets his car towed for an unjustified parking
ticket his angry campaign for justice blows up his marriage, job,
career and even shared custody of his daughter. When he blows up the
tower's yard he becomes a local hero, Mr Dynamite. In jail his wife and
daughter bring him a birthday cake and all the inmates and guards
celebrate his day. His last act is blowing out the candles. Terrorism
works.A spoiled teenager's fatal hit and run accident leads to a steadily
expanding chain of corruption as his wealthy father tries to get the
family groundskeeper to take the rap for him. As the bribery balloons
no-one is innocent. Even the humble groundskeeper raises his demands.
When the father decides not to pay to save his spoiled son, his lawyer
says it would be dishonourable for him to renege on his bribery of the
the public prosecutor. When the boy decides to confess the greedy
renegotiate their scheme. As the fall guy is led away an angry citizen
kills him. Amid all the bribes and false honour the poor worker pays
the price.In the climax, a rich Jewish family's wedding, the bride explodes after
the groom admits he had sex with a colleague who's a guest. The demure
bride turns into a vengeful virago wreaking massive destruction,
reducing the groom to tears, the ceremony to chaos, and her rival to a
bloodied mess. When the newlyweds reconnect — making passionate love
amid the ruins of the cake — their union feels more honest than the
initial smiles and formality. Now their union expresses more passion
than manners. The chaotic wedding is more honest than the ceremonial
ritual was. The anthology structure hearkens back to Italian neorealism, where
separate short stories provided a wide-ranging survey of social issues.
Apt for a celebration of the unruly, the film is exuberantly comic but
with a black undercurrent. As its initial frustrations are so common,
the film provides its audience with a greater catharsis than most
comedies or tragedies. We're left calm of mind, frustrations spent.
