4
Mighty Russell Has Struck Out

(Rating: ☆☆ out of 4)This film is not recommended.In brief: Clean-up in Aisle 4GRADE: CThe usually reliable David O. Russell lets down his fine cast of
performers in his latest film, Joy, which doesn't quite live up to its
title. Except for a strong performance from its lead, the delightful
Jennifer Lawrence, the film remains a major disappointment. The film is loosely based on the true story of inventor Joy Mangano,
but the screenplay also written by its director is a mess that needs to
clean up its act. The film swings wildly between comedy and drama but
never stays long enough to be effective in either category. Joy,
winningly played by Ms. Lawrence, is interesting and the actress brings
some verve to her role, but all of the supporting characters around her
are sketchy and never amount to much more than quirky curmudgeons whose
actions are so over-the-top that they never resemble anything remotely
believable.The plot: Joy's life is in shambles (but then, so is the script).
Living slightly above the poverty level and sharing her household with
her dysfunctional divorced parents, Terry (Virginia Madsen), a
reclusive soap opera addicted mother, and Rudy, a crotchety
self-absorbed father (Robert De Niro) who takes up with a rich Italian
widow named Trudy (Isabella Rossellini), Joy's ex-husband, Tony (Edgar
Ramirez), who is trying to be a professional singer, Peggy (Elizabeth
Rohm), her jealous stepsister, and Joy's two adorable children. Still
her creative impulses compel her take action and change the direction
her life is taking, which leads Joy to her long- time friend and
adversary in business, Neil (Bradley Cooper), who gives her moral
support on her latest venture. However, none of these relationships build to any satisfactory
conclusion due to the stilted writing and uneven tone of the film. The
ending also seems pat and forced as it quickly tries to tie up its
loose ends, be they cotton or synthetic.With all of the talent involved, sadly, Joy is a joyless filmgoing
experience.Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.comANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com
