9
A Love That Stands The Test of Time!

As human nature would have it, it's not a rare thing to fall in and out
of love a number of times in one person's lifetime. But, then, there
are those even more rare cases of finding the one true love that may
occur only once in a person's life and lasting even longer than a
lifetime. Relativity Media's "Safe Haven", directed by Lasse Hallstrom
is a story about one of those such rare cases.Based on the novel by Nicholas Sparks, the story opens with a young
woman, who simply goes by "Katie", played by Julianne Hough, as she is
seen fiercely escaping danger. It's not yet revealed what the
circumstances are. She resurfaces in the small, ocean side tourist town
of Southport in North Carolina, which is also where the film was shot.Her small town surroundings and the people within it embrace Katie a
lot sooner than she is ready to reciprocate. One such resident being
Alex (Josh Duhamel) who is a father of two and a widower of four years
loosing his wife to cancer. A very guarded Katie is constantly reminded
of her runaway status from, as more of her back-story is revealed, her
husband who is a Boston police detective (David Lyons) in charge of
locating escaped criminals.With a small window of opportunity to get to know Alex and his family
more, Katie decides to enter their lives as his kids start to grow more
fond of her. However, when her husband's detective skills lead him
directly to her, a series of events results in a new awakening for
Katie and Alex's family alike where new beginnings are a welcome.The last fifteen minutes of "Safe Haven" includes a real tear-jerker
and a surprise ending is revealed. I challenge anyone to have a dry eye
after that. Josh Duhamel as "Alex" and Julianne Hough as "Katie" were a
perfect fit and carried the storyline perfectly.Also very impressive performances came from child actors Noah Lomaz as
"Josh", Alex's son, and Mimi Kirland as "Lexie", Alex's daughter...Full
Review at HollywoodJunket.com -Hollywood Junket
