6
More Harry Potter then Twilight

Since the success of films like Harry Potter and Twilight, film studios
have been looking for the next young adult book series to adapt. With
five books already out and a sixth on the way, The Mortal Instruments
is latest series to diving into a cinematic adaptation, being more
fantasy, than supernatural romance.Clary Fray (Lily Collins) is a seemingly normal New York teenager, who
lives with her artistic single mother, Jocelyn (Lena Headey). Her best
friend, Simon (Richard Sheehan), has a crush for the young woman, but
she sees him more as a brother. Clary leads a normal life, but starts
to draw a strange symbol, that leads to changes in her life. She begins
to see it everywhere, leading her and Simon to a nightclub where she
sees people, no one else can. Soon, Clary's mother is kidnapped and her
only ally is Jace (Jamie Campbell Bower), a Shadowhunter, a half-angel,
half- human creature, who hunts demons. Clary is thrust into a strange
world of demons, vampires, witches, warlocks and werewolves and has to
open up her own suppressed memories as an evil Shadowhunter. Valentine
(Jonathan Rhys Meyers) is looking for the lost Mortal Cup that can
create more Shadowhunters.To get the Twilight comparisons out of the way, yes there is a love
triangle and a teenage girl has a romance with a supernatural creature.
But, The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones borrows much more from the
Harry Potter, having a world within world, many mystical creatures,
having a term to describe humans and focuses on a young character who
could be more powerful then she realises and discovers her real past.
The character of Alec (Kevin Zegers) is the Rosalie of the film, having
animosity to our major character.Continuing with Twilight comparisons, Clary is dependence on the other
characters, but that is more due to the fact she is in a strange world
and the Shadowhunters are much more experience. But, Clary is still
resourceful, asks the right questions and is a go-getter who wants to
get stuck in with the adventure.The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones is a standard fantasy adventure
that, as already mentioned, borrows highly from Harry Potter. This is a
film that has many predictable plot points, that we've seen many times
before. This is a film that does follow The Hero With A Thousand Faces
formula, but also makes you dive head first into its world and
mythology, where other series would be much more gradual when bringing
you into their worlds.Harald Zwart of Agent Cody Banks and The Karate Kid (2010) fame took on
the directing duties and he makes a darker film to his previous
efforts. Zwart brings in Gothic visuals throughout the film, from the
use of a catacomb that is run by creatures with sewed up mouths and the
Shadowhunter's being like a church: but Institute's interior looks very
much like Hogwarts. There are some gruesome moments (even for the PG-13
rating) involving the demon dog and the extra limbs demons can grow.
But despite all this, death is kept to a minimum.While The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones does have Judo-Christian
iconography with its use of angel statutes and paintings, this is a
film that actually side-steps being be a Christian, saying all
religions are valid and avoids any mention of God or the afterlife.The acting for the most part is decent enough, though the dialogue is
predictable and a little clichéd at times. We do get to see Clary
transform from a regular teenager to a Shadowhunter wearing a short
dresses, a leather jacket and thigh high boots. While Campbell Bower
brings a sardonic wit to Jace and there is strange aspect that all the
Shadowhunters speak with English accents whilst the werewolves are
Irish. Actors like Headey and Jared Harris do offer a little gravitas
to proceedings but there are really extended cameos with the young
actors being front and centre.Zwart did show his action credentials when he directed The Karate Kid;
but he seem to regress for his follow up film. The action sequences are
for the most part fairly bland, typical fare. But Jemima West's
Isabelle has some moments with a whip and looking really bad-ass when
she has a flamethrower. Hell, give her a film.The special effects are nothing to write home about. There are not bad,
but due to the limited budget the digital looked obvious at times,
particularly the werewolves. Yet, the demons near the end of the film
does have a cool, glowing effort and have a similar look to Kronos'
minions in Wrath of the Titans.The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones has been have a torrid time with
mainstream critics, but in all honesty, it is a perfectly serviceable
fantasy adventure that is better to the Twilight series it has been
compared to and will please fans of the novels.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
