3
This film is pandering nonsense. The first was better

Kingsman golden circle is a hot steaming pile of pandering nonsense.
The plot is all over the place, characters are stilted whilst others
are not utilised properly. The music is terrible, the camera work
passable and the whole feel of this movie is BLEH. A far cry from the
first one and has none of the charm or wit. The plot revolves around this woman who wants to make drugs that kill
people and bribes the president with an antidote in return for fame.
The president is an evil man who gets impeached and replaced with a
"strong, truthful" woman who is his vice president (VP). This is
strongly prevalent during the film and is obviously a poor analogy for
the Donald Trump situation at the moment. The fact that the VP looks like Hillary Clinton as well is majorly
pandering to the audience and this part of the plot is so rammed down
our gobs that we choke on this pretentiousness. It adds nothing to the
movie and is just a sad attempt at getting political in what was meant
to be a goofy, fun spy movie.The rest of the plot is disjointed at best with Colin Firths character
getting a downturn. In the first film he was a master spy with great
reflexes and a charm that left us all rooting for him. In this film he
is such a wimp that he needs help from Elton John (of all people!!?) to
kill a robot dog. Even his "manners maketh man" scene is done again for
no reason. In the first that fight made sense and had a point to the
plot. In this the fight happens for no reason other than the studio
wanted to rehash it. The villain in this film is poor as she has no real personality and is
so dull. She also spends all of her time in a 50s diner and never
leaves. Not even when she knows the Kingsmen are coming for her does
she run out or try to escape. She is so removed from valentine who was
a great goofy villain. In fact she is so boring that I even forget what
she is called and I saw the movie 1 hour ago.That is how forgettable
she is!The Swedish woman, who was barely in the first film, is very prevalent
in this one for some reason?? I thought she was just in the first one
for comic relief and so Eggsy could fuc* her in the a*s. I don't know
why they killed off Lancelot (Roxy) and kept the Swedish woman in the
film. Roxy was very prevalent in the first one and she gets killed off
in this for no real reason and it's such a lacklustre, boring death as
well that leads me to believe that she wasn't really important in the
first film after all. The statesmen are a really stupid idea. They all have southern accents
and wear denim jackets and cowboy hats. I don't know if the writers
have actually been to the US but that is not how all Americans act and
dress. You don't see the Kingsmen pandering to English stereotypes like
drinking Tea all the time and having fish and chips. So why then do we
get this from the statesmen? It seems too stereotypical and just a dumb
thing to throw into a plot.Channing Tatum got a huge portion of trailer time however he is hardly
in the film at all. He has one 30 second fight scene and that's it. I
think he was just put in so women who get wet at Channing Tatum and
will go see it. Sorry girls but he ain't in it.but the sexy Mexican
guy from Narcos is..Not Pablo Escobar! the other one.To cap it all off the technical parts are terrible, especially the
music. First that dam "country road" song by John Denver plays in this
film which is becoming a standard for films in 2017. It was used in
Alien Covenant AND Logan Lucky AS WELL AS this film. Maybe that's a
mark if a film is sh*t now. If country road is playing you know the
film is garbage! All the action scenes for the last half of the movie
have country songs in the background which just takes away so much from
the scenes that you feel bored watching them. The good stuff is few and far between. The taxi chase at the start is
great and sets the movie off well and the camera angles and shots are
competent. Mark Strong is okay and is trying his best with what he is
given. The comedy is okay in bits but is let down by all the rubbish
and painfully unfunny Elton John scenes which kill the comedy dead. All in all this has been a rubbish sequel to a great first movie. I
liked the first one and was going to give this one a chance however so
many things fell short. The characters were boring and in Harry's case
were turned into wimps. The Statesmen where caricatures of what people
think Americans look and act like and to cap it all off the political
pandering this film does if just so BLEH!I hate Donald Trump as much as everyone but having an analogy in a fun
spy movie about his politics is completely boring and takes the heart
away from this film series. The main thing this film is missing is the
fun and goofiness the first had and it is just sad to watch if I'm
honest.
