4
Almost the disaster I thought it would be...unnecessary dud

First of all, let me say that F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby is
absolutely one of my favourite novels. Additionally, though it has been
years since I've seen it, the Robert Redford film was brilliant and I
loved it. From the moment I saw the trailers for this version I was
heavily skeptical. Heaven knows that someone like Baz Luhrmann needs to
make things flashy and extravagant and put a modern twist on a classic
story. He did some brilliant work with Romeo and Juliet nearly 20 years
ago. However, I was worried and now seeing it it has been confirmed
that his version of Great Gatsby is an excessive, chaotic, bright,
jazzy mess that completely misses the entire concept of Fitzgerald's
classic. The modern day rap music and remixes weren't awful but also
weren't necessary either. The elaborate (and admittedly brilliantly
done) set pieces of a bizarre almost apocalyptic New York and
surrounding area seemed to just take away from a story that should be
entirely character driven. The story does mostly follow Fitzgerald's
story and yet at the same time completely misses its mark and the
pacing felt off entirely. There is no doubt that The Great Gatsby is
not an action flick or anything but parts of it dragged.This is a talented group of people and yet, in my opinion, completely
miscast and that includes the legendary Leonardo DiCaprio. DiCaprio was
so miscast as Gatsby and he tries so incredibly hard that it comes off
as fake. If I had to hear him excruciatingly and awkwardly say "Ol'
sport" one more time I was going to scream. DiCaprio is a brilliant
actor as long as he has the right role and this was not even close to
right for him. He was too young (or at least baby faced), awkward and
didn't fit the bill. Same could be said for Tobey Maguire. I don't know
why they chose to cast these baby faced actors for the film but it
doesn't work. Maguire carries the film decently but just not good
enough. Joel Edgerton is probably the best cast in his role as the
abrasive, womanizing Tom Buchanan. He is definitely the most watchable
and the most convincing in his role. Carey Mulligan carries herself
well and certainly has this subtle sexuality that is perfect for Daisy
and yet the character comes across as near boring. The chemistry
between her and DiCaprio is okay but not timeless and passionate the
way it should be between Daisy and Gatsby. The cast work well together
but not as good as I think it should have been.The single issue with this version of The Great Gatsby is that all this
flash and jazz has been created without any thought to the true heart
of the story. This story is all about greed, pride, obsession, and
gluttony and the threads of each one of those is barely existent in
this story. I'm actually very surprised that the film is doing as well
as it is especially after being delayed for a year before release. One
of the most powerful scenes in the original film was Gatsby's death and
once again it is handled well, and powerful and its also artistically
done. I simply felt that the cast tried far too hard and came across as
unconvincing and the film had more modern glitz and glam than was
necessary. The pacing was nearly excruciating at times as it stumbled
through an otherwise classic story. I had very low expectations going
into this and it met those low expectations but barely and did nothing
to exceed them. 4/10
