1
Every Director Has Their Turkey

I saw this movie at the cinemas because it looked like an interesting
detective mystery with old fashioned noir roots and intertwining plots
and characters. These sort of films are among my favorite and it
doesn't hurt that I am a fan of Paul Thomas Anderson to begin with. I
personally look at him as being one of the more exemplary filmmakers of
his time with classics such as Boogie Nights and Magnolia. His style is
much like Scorsese's and his execution reminds me of Kubrick in many
ways, cementing him in Hollywood as a force to be reckoned with. So you can imagine my disappointment when this film nearly bored me
into a coma.This film was so bad, that I not only walked out on it- reflecting on
how I could have spent ten bucks on such drivel- but also wept at
having wasted nearly 100 minutes of my life on absolute trash. Yes,
that is right...100 minutes and this film seemed like it wasn't
anywhere near the finish line. Just scene after scene after scene of
some of the most boring, expository dialogue ever delivered by a
million characters who have nothing to do with anything but talk about
a plot that would require the viewer to trip out on DMT to even
understand it. The structure makes no sense, the constant reminder that
our main protagonist "Doc", a whacked out PI who never showers, is just
a second rate version of "The Dude" from The Big Lebowski becomes very
tedious, and that voice-over....why? And I thought Blake Lively's
voice-over in "Savages" was bad. The voice-over in this movie did
absolutely nothing for the meandering plot. It was nothing but a bunch
of incoherent, pseudo- intellectual ramblings by a stoner hippie girl
that grates your ears worse than a cheese grater. I always thought a
voice-over should serve as sort of the icing on the cake. It should
only accent the story, but with the viewer still able to comprehend
what is going on even without it. If you want examples, watch any film
by Scorsese. That's how you do it. This movie was just a train wreck. A
7.3 rating? I am still wondering how anyone who wasn't a doper of the
70s could call this an "entertaining movie". The only decent thing in
this waste of celluloid is Josh Brolin's performance as the banana
loving, wise cracking detective named Big Foot. However, one
performance cannot save a pointless, never-ending drug fueled mess of a
film.Unfortunately Paul, you struck out this time. Absolutely terrible.
