3
ridiculous nonsense

OK so the first movie ("Divergent"), despite what the people who read
the books say, was basically another soap opera - slash - action movie
directed at what I am guessing teen audience. Just like Mockingjay,
just like Maze Runner. But despite the absolute soap overload in some
parts at least the plots were somewhat original though they all had
that tell-tale post-apocalyptic-dystopic- 1984ish plot commonality, but
all of them kinda "did okay" at least in each own way and at least
managed to have SOME major and original plot differences that made them
over all okay and entertaining to watch.But this movie... oh boy. Flying "cars", even more conspiracy nonsense,
small flying discs that create placenta (or was it "plasma"? lol)
bubbles around people, small spheres that create a
forcefield/illusion/barrier/something, more evil manipulative
characters that make no sense, new evil characters, new absurdities of
human behavior.... and genetic manipulation? Genetic projects? Memory
wiping gas-serum-something? Or how about this: poisonous wasteland
covered in radioactive puddles and 100% scorched earth and not a single
vegetable left alive... but guess what, people live there, in tents and
stuff. Probably doing pow-wows to entertain each other or some other
nonsense.I am at a loss. The plot of the movie Vs the actors and the way it was
filmed is like... like... eating a pancake, a pretty good one, but
there's just one pancake and the rest is a bucket of cream, chocolate,
syrup, candy canes, cake sprinkles and whatever else dumped on it. OK
another analogy: imagine if a hyperactive 6 year old had to write the
plot of all Star Wars movies. Sure there would be action by the
boatloads, but the plot would make absolutely no sense. A total
overdose of hyped up nonsense, and this is exactly what this movie is.
Literally 30 mins into the movie the plot just went supersonic and went
in one eye and out the other. Absolute garbage that made no sense at
all. Plus the plot now has like 100 different cliffhangers to hang on
to, so they'll be milking this movie until the next coming of Christ or
until the audiences are just numbed by the continuous river of nonsense
that this movie is.Oh and last thing - IMDb mods, better wake up and do your job. Some of
the reviews here are so flat, so like a rant a used car salesman would
make that they are obviously paid/fake and are not honest... like not
at all.
