7
A real surprise find - well worth a watch

NOTE: I've skirted around some of the key thrilling episodes that occur
within the film, but I feel I've talked about them without actually
giving anything away. I don't think this review requires a spoiler
alert!I watched this having heard absolutely nothing about it, and having not
even heard of it. I caught the picture of the cover art, and it seemed
like it was Wilson and Brosnan, so thought I'd take a look. Right from the off - it had the feel of something everso slightly
different from the normal action film fodder. I won't ruin the surprise
beginning, and then it cuts to the Wilson based family heading into
this unnamed Asian country for a job-move. From almost upon arrival and for the rest of the film, it's something
of a thrill ride. I found myself particularly enthralled when Bell was
trapped in their hotel room at the beginning of events - something
about the acting and the filming really conveyed real fear and this
totally hooked me in. It was clear that this was going to be a decent
film from this moment on. It has a slightly "handicam" film-making
quality about it, but in this instance, it absolutely adds to the feel
imho. From the hotel rooftop to the adjacent, again, it conveyed real fear.
Would you do that with your family? Shocking from a parents point of
view, but believable in that you'd have no choice. From a parental
perspective - totally shocking and enthralling. My wife happened to
walk into the room just at this point, and she was definitely mentally
scarred by what she saw! And there it goes on - for me, the only real slight let-downs in the
movie are when Brosnan re-finds the family which in such a scenario
really isn't likely to have happened, and indeed what Bell does whilst
they are hiding in the old man's garden. I don't feel that a mother,
protecting her children would have done that. Apart from these small elements of storyline which probably allowed a
little too much implausibility, along with just how much difficulty
with the local rebels Wilson's character was realistically likely to
overcome and deal with, particularly towards the end of the film - even
with full adrenalin running were the only small faults. Still, having said all that - I'll be watching this again soon. It was
quite a thrill ride and most certainly not wholesome family
entertainment. There's some really quite surprisingly graphic scenes of
violence, which totally suited the film, but definitely not for young
eyes.
