7
An outrageous take on the zombie sub-genre

Three scouts, on the eve of their last camp-out, discover the true
meaning of friendship when they attempt to save their town from a
zombie outbreak.When treated as a B-movie in the zombie sub-genre there is a lot of fun
to be had with Scouts Guide. Are the jokes juvenile? Are their utter
lapses in zombie logic? Is their ridiculous acting? Yes to all, but if
you go in expecting these things you're in for a hell of a good laugh
and at times deeply satirical take on the zombie-genre.Tye Sheridan has proved himself to be one of the most talented up and
coming actors of his age, with heavy hitting performances in 'Mud' and
'Joe'. Why shouldn't he be able to do a fun b-movie if he wants, he
doesn't have to spend his youthful years diving from one emotional
complexity to the next, of course he is terrific in these roles but it
should also be encouraged for him to change it up. He is undoubtedly
one of best parts of this film and is a relatable protagonist
throughout the story. His co-stars include the at times annoying 'Logan
Miller' doing his best Jonah hill in Superbad impression, and the
amusing Joey Morgan who has some of the funniest moments of the film.
Sarah Dumont is the stereotypical 'hot girl who is good with a gun'
which is quite frustrating as many movies these days lean to the trope
of a female character who can shoot a gun is somehow a strong female
role.The visual comedy is boundless and has a surprising amount of
unpredictability, scenes have a way of subverting zombie tropes by
bizarre occurrences that make them quite hilarious to watch. Also the
zombie kills themselves are outrageous, owing inspiration from the
likes of Peter Jacksons 'Braindead'. The gore as with a number of
satirical horror flicks is excessive to say the least and many of the
zombie kills are inventive and at times utterly outrageous.This film meets its struggle on an emotional level, the friendship
subplot is a disappointing disconnect from the film as a whole, the
poor script makes it impossible to latch on to this conceived
friendship on any level, which makes the film proposed emotional core
fall flat. Also on many levels this film aims for the success of Edgar
Wrights 'Shaun of the Dead' and fails to achieve any of it, mostly
because Edgar Wrights film is much more intricate in nature due to the
direction, script, characters and comedy.However, judge this film on what it is, an absurd and quite outrageous
satirical take on the zombie sub-genre and you might just have a fun
time with it, I know I did. I am going to give Scouts Guide to the
Zombie Apocalypse a 7/10.
