3
Another turd for the American public

One definition of insanity is repeating the same behavior and expecting
different results.Therefore, I must be insane because I keep thinking American-made
espionage movies are going to have a consistent, believable plot
instead just a bunch of hyped-up, glossy BS.I have learned my lesson this time.Safehouse kept me and the rest of the audience laughing incredulously
at the sheer absurdity that unfolded again and again in this
tremendously silly film. Allow me to diagram the plot for you: 01. A hit squad - hired by the CIA - knows where their rogue agent is
and converges on him to kill him.02. Rogue agent escapes, only to turn himself in to US government.03. Bumbling CIA team tries to make him talk, only to be ambushed by
original CIA team.04. Rogue CIA agent is saved by silly patriotic CIA agent.05. Bumbling CIA leaders argue.06. Silly patriotic CIA agent tries to turn in rogue agent only to be
attacked by original CIA team.07. Rogue agent escapes and is later recaptured by silly agent.08. Silly agent is attacked by another CIA agent.09. Silly agent learns CIA is corrupt.10. Rogue agent dies and silly agent goes rogue.So, in other words, the CIA attacks the CIA to try to prevent the CIA
from learning that the CIA has dirt of the CIA. Yeah, that makes sense!In addition to all this garbage, the CIA strike team kills a boatload
of innocent civilians, does millions of dollars of property damage,
gets two of their top people killed, and then just lets the guy with
the damaging intel just walk away at the end. So what was the point of
the whole movie?Also, if the CIA knew where rogue agent Denzel Washington was at the
beginning of the movie, why didn't they just kill him up front and be
done with it?Duh!The only saving grace this movie has is Denzel Washington who, as
always, is a fine actor who conveys depth, empathy, and strong acting.
Ryan Reynolds' acting, however, is pretty awful. Throughout the whole
movie, he looks constipated and is entirely unbelievable.The sub-plot, if you want to call it that, with his girlfriend is
completely pointless and adds nothing to the film. This film had a $85 M budget. That money could have been better used
teaching bullfrogs how to play the ukulele.
