6
The son of Megatron and Skynet meets Tony Stark and his Amazing Friends

In 2012, there came a day unlike any other day where the worlds
greatest heroes were united against a common threat and THE AVENGERS
blew away audiences of all ages with the first ever comic book movie
crossover. In 2015, there came another day unlike any other day and
this time the world is threatened by a Ultron, the cynical critical
atypical child of Skynet and Megatron...... No actually he's just a
wisecracking artificial intelligence with delusions of godhood and all
round evil. Turning on his creators, he threatens all life on earth
with his sidekicks "illusion- woman" and "not-the-flash"....I mean,
Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver, and it is up to the Avengers to take him
out before he can usher in THE AGE OF ULTRON. Instead of the robot dominated dystopian future that we saw in the
comics, what we do get is more "the next few days of Ultron". No
matter, it is an exciting few days with director Joss Whedon balancing
the intercharacter dynamics with awesome action pieces from
claustrophobic close combat, to a freeway chase, to the much advertised
no holds barred beat down between the Hulk and iron man's new "hulk
buster" Armour. All this is supplemented with beautiful special effects
from Industrial Lights and Magic ILM. Flawless work befitting the
movie's massive Budget.In The villain, Ultron, the Writers have crafted a memorable though
under utilised bad guy. Ultron could have been the vehicle to explore
deeper themes, themes that were merely hinted at but never fleshed out.
Instead, His cynical yet refined snarling courtesy of James Spader
reminds me of the those magnificently passionate Super villains that
were so common in Saturday morning cartoons of old.And that is exactly what this is. AGE OF ULTRON can be described as a
true live action cartoon. The dialogue is light hearted, the story is
straightforward, the tone is fun and the action is immense. And this is
not exactly a good thing. Intense scenes are interrupted and spoilt
with poorly placed humour and once again the story does not seem to
take itself seriously. Fights are over-choreographed, more like some fancy ballet than an all
out battle. The fact that it cuts to graceful slow motion once in a
while only emphasises the dance like nature of the fights. And yet the movie felt like pieces of it were cut out. The narrative
does not flow as smoothly as the first with inexplicable scenes like
Thor suddenly going off on his hallucination trip. Much of the premise
and the characters development up to this point very much depends on
the viewer watching prior marvel movies. It is here that Marvel studio's continuity heavy Creative direction
rears its ugly head. To know what is going on in this movie, one would
have to watch the previous movies. Captain America the winter soldier,
iron man 3, the first avengers movie. But perhaps that's the point?
Force people to go buy the Blu rays or the video to rewatch and get up
to speed. In the end, the real big winner is distributor Disney.
Ka-Ching $$.I like a good comedy. In in a big action blockbuster, I like to believe
that the stakes are real, that the dangers faced by our heroes are
real, that they are really fighting for the fate of the world. Instead,
we get this cartoony violence, with equally cartoony superficial story,
where heroes joke around with quick lighthearted quips in the middle of
a fight scene where people could die. This kills tension. And if it
weren't for the magnificent effects, action and direction, AGE OF
ULTRON would have scored a bit lower.
