3
Bad taste gone worse

First I must say that I rarely write reviews. Most are already there to
help a viewer decide whether to see the movie or not. An experienced
moviegoer can always tell if the reviewer knows what he's talking
about. But with Django unchained, that was such a horrible flick with
sky high ratings, I just felt the urge to write down how disturbingly
flawed and deeply deranged this movie is and not in a good way. It's
been a long time since I have seen a good Tarantino movie. This era
ended with his story and his part in Four Rooms. And after Kill Bill,
things went downhill never to crawl back up. Every once in a while,
Tarantino's flashy and expensive garbage is being spilled on theater
screens all over the world, and the somewhat schizophrenic director
surprisingly picks up even more fans along the dodgy way. I expected
more from this movie, since I couldn't even sit through that dreary
Inglorious bastards, so things had to get better. And yet, even though
he had a perfect plot setting in a cruel time and place for black
people in American history, he casted the still boyish looking I-must-
be-the-bad-guy-in-that-movie DiCaprio who really gives his best to sell
it but falls short, and you get yet another long term drug use
flashback in a form of give-me-back-my-money drive-in movie, with an
hour long boring film within a film - during the visit to Candie Land
that starts with what can only be described as the first MMA fight ever
held in a living room. In this openly racist movie, and not because of
the excessive use of the n-word, whose star later promotes gun ban
while making good money by shooting every white creature in this film
that has sudden twists from serious to absurd, from grave to bizarre.
Here we get a bad writing, bad music, bad casting, mediocre acting from
an all-star cast and awful, awful direction. The dynamic sound makes
you jump off your seat when someone slams the door on screen. How cheap
is that? Well, the music was OK, but not for one playlist and certainly
not for one western. You just can't mix Rio Bravo style songs and Elvis
impersonator with modern rap music and get away with it. Unless your
main character can spill buckets of blood with just one bullet or
massacre crowds of armed rednecks just after practicing his gunslinger
skills by shooting down a few bottles. We also see a drawer slide
mounted Derringer save the day one time too many. We see black slaves
speak fluent German. But this is a love story, and yet these extreme
action scenes are the high tide here with tons of ketchup spills all
around, with over the top gore that would make a B-slasher-movie look
like British rom com, and the drab dramatic part will bore you to death
and make you consider leaving the theater. Twice. What Quentin tries to
achieve here, style wise, is the bleak mix of Gibson's The Passion of
the Christ and Jesus Christ Superstar. But someone should've told him
both movies are bad. Also, Samuel L. Jackson's pathetic make-up as well
as his cartoonish role do not make things any better. I didn't expect
to see Open Range, but this charade is a kind of rich gumbo, made out
of all the bad ingredients from previous hyped Tarantino grindhouse
style obsession movies or his dull WWII affirmative action fairy tale,
that was oddly not enough spiced with finger licking good hot sauce
from Leone, Hawks or Peckinpah, hence completely ruining this bad taste
cinema and rendering it inedible. Now seeing these ratings, no wonder
Gangnam style is the most viewed YT video ever. No wonder Hobit, Harry
Potter, Batman, Spiderman and Lord of the Rings top the Best 250 list.
