9
Larger Than Life

Pacific Rim takes inspiration from the elements of any material that
involves giant creatures and robots. It shows a simple concept about
piloted robots, Jaegers, fighting against sea aliens, Kaijus. This idea
alone would already make a fantastic blockbuster. The surprise we get
is it features more than just endless explosions. There are plenty of
innovations to root for which it can almost be a new popular classic.
The only less intriguing parts however are the clichés that are too
known in many big sci-fi action movies. Despite of that, it kept the
promise of being gigantically awesome. It's not completely
groundbreaking, but it's still quite an experience.Aside from the large scale battles, the film amazingly creates an
innovating futuristic alternate universe. It tells the origins of the
Kaijus and how the Jaegers work, shows what society and the media have
become, and throw some satires of the genre. The exploration of the
vision is so absorbing, it feels like you went to it as a trip. But
what somewhat halts this from being larger than life is when it takes
the generic elements of any typical blockbuster, like the hero's
motivations, the main robot is somehow an underdog in one scene,
there's an arrogant team member, sacrifices, and so on. It's hard to
not notice them since they are the central points of the story. The
intriguing stuff about the Jaegers and Kaijus still took over the
experience. At least it embraces its own fantasy tastes without being
"dark" and emo like today's blockbuster trend.Charlie Hunnam's performance is fitting to a graphic novel based movie,
which is kind of appropriate as his role. In the battle scenes, he
gives genuine human emotions as he punches and fall. Idris Elba
remarkably brings heart to the picture while being awesome at the same
time. Rinko Kikuchi makes her character more than just a partner of
Raleigh. Charlie Day and Burn Gorman delightfully serves more energy to
the story, while Ron Perlman appears in a short screen time but
satisfying enough.Now the real highlight of the picture, the visuals are overall shiny
and snazzy. The designs of the creatures and robots are palpably
marvelous. As the special effects move these heavy giants, the action
did something better than just blowing up stuff. Although explosions
and loud noises are not actually flaws(It's about giant robots,
c'mon!), but a real good set piece needs a decent and genuine
fortitude. In the midst of the noises, you will always get the sense of
danger to the Jaegers, mostly because there are human pilots beneath
the ravaging machines. It effectively made those sequences electrifying
and the monsters terrifying than you would expect.Pacific Rim will have its own fans. It feels like a self-indulged
blockbuster that people will end up loving. Besides, this film is said
to be Guillermo del Toro's dream come true coming from his childhood.
And seeing all that, there's plenty of things to explore and to be
intrigued. If only the plot can break some points from the mainstream
storytelling, it would have been less predictable and much
extraordinary. But physically, it is extraordinary. It's both big and
eye candy which is the snazziest merit you will see. Also in the action
scenes where it's more into the thrills than the fireworks, because
it's all about iron fists hitting on monsters' face. Again, the story
may be familiar, but the setting and the action keeps everything looks
fresh and amazing.
