4
It really is not for me

I really don't know why I sat down and watched this movie. Maybe it was
the cast and that's it. Either way, while it isn't as bad as other
comedies released today (what with gross-out humour and... that's it,
maybe having 30 seconds of "endearment" so the audience leaves the
movie with something other then that) There still is a lot of problems
with this movie.So after Michael Douglas proposes to his young-enough-to-be-daughter
girlfriend at a funeral, he decides to have a bachelor party in Vegas
with his childhood friends. Each having to cope with their own perks of
old age. So when they get to Vegas "hijinx" ensues.Now, this could have been funny. They managed to get actors who can
actually do comedy but the problem is the material they had to work
with. Half the time the jokes revolve around "They're old" and I get
why they chose to go at that angle but it also creates another problem
of me thinking these characters are not really characters. They are
archetypes of all the stereotypes that can fit into the category of
"old man" and while that may strike a laugh because "I know someone
like that!" then can they do something other then "wait a minute, you
mean you open curtains via touchscreen?" I mean even though I hate
touchscreens there has to be more material with this situation then
this.But really, the movie is not bad enough for me to rate it any lower
then a 4/10. There are story arcs, even though you maybe able to
predict the ending the second they're revealed with some of them. And
it does have a few rather endearing moments. I guess the acting of
those scenes pull through enough, again considering the material they
have to work with.So I think that this movie may have a taste that unfortunately isn't
mine. As much as I did rip apart the humour, like everything in the
reviews I type, it's all subjective. So while I admit that I did not
like the movie if what you're looking for is a very light hearted movie
that has a couple of endearing moments (and if you like half the jokes
revolving around the fact that they can't keep up with today's
generation) then this maybe for you.
