7
Silly but Very Fun Movie, Jane Austen would be Proud

This movie is a bit of a surprise to me since I wasn't really expecting
much from it. The trailers looked alright but I didn't know if it would
be something that I would get into. I wouldn't go so far to say that
it's an excellent film or anything like that but I did have a lot of
fun with this one. The story is straight up ridiculous but if you go
into it expecting a silly story with a little bit of action then I
don't see any reason why you wouldn't enjoy yourself. The movie is
directed by a guy named Burr Steers who, to be honest, I have no
knowledge whatsoever of anything he has done in the past. Still, he did
a decent job in my opinion. Let's talk about the plot.The title of the movie isn't just a reference to the time period. This
story is literally a retelling of the original novel written by Jane
Austen. Elizabeth Bennet (Lily James) and her sisters live in an
alternate version of nineteenth century England where a zombie virus
has forced the bulk of the populace behind a wall around London.
Elizabeth and her sisters have trained in various styles of martial
arts in order to survive in this world. Elizabeth is proud of her
ability and refuses to succumb to the temptation of marriage unless her
husband respects her wishes and allows her to continue to hone her
skills. She soon meets a man named Mr. Darcy (Sam Riley) who offends
her pride and stands between a successful relationship between his best
friend and Elizabeth's sister. Oh, and there are tons of zombies around
that everyone occasionally fight against.I wouldn't call this the best cast I've ever seen but they do a decent
enough job. Lily James gives us the haughtiness required of any good
Elizabeth and she can also show off the fighting skills necessary to
survive the zombie apocalypse. I also enjoyed Sam Riley's Mr. Darcy.
Once again, nothing too spectacular but he gives a decent portrayal of
the character. I like that they made him a bit unlikable which is how I
imagined Mr. Darcy when I first read the novel in high school (the
original, I mean). One character that does stand out to me is Matt
Smith's portrayal of Parson Collins. I found this guy hilarious with
they way he was able to make those around him cringe with his actions
or just by saying whatever came into his head. He might actually be one
of the best parts of the film.There are a lot of spooky looking forests in this movie that help to
set the tone pretty well. I did find myself wondering why everyone
keeps taking shortcuts through this ridiculously dangerous forest
though. I really enjoyed the actual look of the zombies. The zombies
that haven't eaten any human flesh yet actually retain the ability to
speak which is really unsettling (and a bit comedic) from some of these
creatures. The faces of some of them are straight up falling off the
skull and they look surprisingly convincing.One thing that I wasn't aware of at first but this movie follows the
original story very closely. I thought the title was just a reference
to the time period but a lot of this film is straight up conversations
made from Jane Austen. They just tweaked the plot to allow for all the
zombies and other mayhem going on. I was surprised by this at first but
it actually works well. The movie is still silly and is a bit difficult
to take seriously but it does have some really fun parts to it. This
obviously won't be for everyone but I actually enjoyed it more than I
thought I would. I do think it works even better to come into the film
already having knowledge of the original story just so you can see how
many things they changed and what they kept the same. I recommend it to
fans of the original that just so happen to enjoy an average to good
zombie flick. It kind of reminds me of that Victor Frankenstein movie
that came out a little while ago. Not a fantastic film but still offers
a fun time at the theater.
