10
Inferno, just not bright enough

For what was meant to be another smash hit in the franchise, Inferno
certainly did not live up to expectations. The main reason behind this
was the length of the movie, too much was crammed into such a short
amount of time that it just wasn't possible to visually create as good
a story on film as was in the book. Everything was not explained clear
enough in the movie, take that extra half an hour to do that, just to
give people an ending they deserve to see. The whole love interest between Elizabeth Sinskey and Langdon just
wasn't needed, Langdon is meant to be a guy who only worries about his
work and not women. The love interest however between Sienna and
Bertrand was exaggerated in the movie and Howard spent too much screen
time on focusing on the pair. In terms of character development it is
easy to see why these two plot points were focused on in the movie.As a book, inferno was a hit, as a movie, inferno was dull. There was
too much anticipating what was going to happen next because it was
straight forward. In the book the characters are much more intriguing
and delicately constructed, leaving out Ferris was a major mistake for
the movie, this kind of character would have been able to explain a lot
of unanswered questions in the movie but would have meant the ending
would have to have been the same from the book which cinematically
would've been amazing if they worked it out.The scene where Sienna leaves Robert killed the whole suspense about
Sienna's real identity and at a moment where the movie could have
possibly been saved, it just had nothing.For those that would rather watch a movie than read the book, yeah sure
Inferno is a good movie to watch but to the book lovers, this movie was
just not the movie we expected from the book. But the score from Zimmer
is possibly the best in the series and makes up for the lack of visual
engagement in parts.Another problem that persists in adapting books to movies is the
question of length, what to leave out and what to include. I think now
is the time for the movie industry to say yes we can make a 3-3 1/2
hour movie because leaving out key plot points and character details is
just disappointing to the book fans. I don't know if this film warrants doing another one in the series, but
if they were to do that, 2 things must be done: 1. make sure it is the
original story on screen and 2. make sure the gap isn't seven years. If
we get an Origin movie, it needs to have a cast as simple as the Da
Vinci Code. Not quite so big, but big enough.A seven out of ten for this movie is reasonable based on the fact it
may be visually appealing to someone who hasn't read the book before,
to someone who has read the book, this movie probably rings more of a
3-5.
