1
If only Age of Extinction ended with extinction so no one had to suffer this mess!

Firstly, I do not rip on this movie because I dislike this franchise. I
actually have a major soft spot for the Transformers movies. I love the
cool visuals and the CGI. The first time I saw an autobot transform I
was gobsmacked and in awe over how good the graphics were. These flicks
are fast paced and action packed. And who does not fall head over heals
for BumbleBee!? Transformers are good films for when you need to switch
off from the outside world, and be seriously entertained for a couple
of hours. Yes, even Age of Extinction has a few moments of goodness.
The same unfortunately, cannot be said about this scrapheap of a film! To start of with, the opening scenes featuring Merlin the drunk
'wizard' were just incredibly futile (and over acted). Don't get me
started on the magic staff/Excalibur as well as the talisman as the
foundations for the plot... say what!? Suddenly Mark Wahlberg is 'the
chosen one' as the world is about to end! But his lady friend is also
the chosen one as she is the only one who can wield the staff..! So I
guess there are two chosen ones... because why not... that makes sense. Yup, it is a Armageddon vs Matrix vs Terminator rip off - mixed with a
big spoon of Arthurian Middle-Age spice. The unholy mixture leaves a
bad taste in your mouth, as one is unable to grasp the incoherent and
unconvincing storyline that does not make any sense at any point.
Transformers 1-4 do not boast any amazing scripts, but this is beyond
lazy and infantile. The film is incredibly messy, and spirals from bad to worse to
unwatchable. It goes from dumb, to dumber, to 'I can't believe I'm
still watching this'! The Last Knight is overflowing with drab one
liners and punchlines so feeble that they make you cringe in your seat.
It is 2 hours of everyone going out of their ways to be rude and
moronic. It is painful to watch adults constantly throw loud tantrums.
I like many of the actors in other movie roles, but in this film not a
single one of them bring a likable character to the round table. I
actually quite hated them all...How could Anthony Hopkins of all actors sink this low!? When he walks
through the submarine museum, pushing people and abruptly shouting to
them to 'move their fat arses and get out' he sadly reached a very
undignified low. Hannibal seems eons away - Hopkins must be out of his
mind to take a role like this one! It is not funny in anyway, just
terribly annoying. Wahlberg's Cade needs a punch in the face. And the
only female character (as always) happens to be a pouty Megan Fox
lookalike. No surprise there. So old and boring.Do not trust the 10 star ratings. The Last Knight really is a flop
beyond flops. With 30minutes left of the film, my brain could not
handle more torture. I walked out.
