9
Netflix Movie Review: The Iceman

The Iceman is a 2012 film by director, Ariel Vromen. It is a 105
minutes of nothing but tension and suspense. Based on the true story of
Richie Kuklinski (portrayed by Michael Shannon), a polish hit-man
contracted by the Mafia. In his career it is said that Kuklinski killed
over 100 people for the mob. It showcases a great cast. To me, unrecognizable, is Winona Ryder (who
portrays Deborah, Kuklinski's wife), Ray Liotta (mob boss Roy DaMeo),
Chris Evans as Mr. Freeze, and get this ... David Schwimmer from
Friends (Ross) as Josh Rosenthal.Dubbing porno films for a living, Kuklinski meets Deborah, and begins
their relationship on a lie, claiming to dub animated films for Disney.
A man of few words, once he is married the porno business comes to an
end. Roy DaMeo likes Kuklinski's cool, calm and fearless attitude. He
hires him to do mob hits. The condition is Kuklinski is only to work
for Roy.As in any organized crime syndicate, times are not always lucrative. In
an attempt to continue to support is wife and daughters, Kuklinski
teams up with Mr. Freeze taking on hits as a contractor. Once Roy finds
out, things spin quickly out of control.The story plot is not much more complex than. It is a movie about a
hit- man. Double crossings, mistrust and paranoia. The Iceman, Richard
Kuklinski, made a name for himself in the '70's. Rated R for obvious reasons, the movie is filled with violent deaths,
disassembled bodies and some bad language and nudity. The acting was
outstanding. I felt that Shannon did an exceptional job. And I will
state again, I did not recognize Ryder at all. She doesn't look old,
but neither does she look like herself. Maybe it's just me. Schwimmer
will always be Ross, even if he wears a ponytail. His drug sales are
almost humorous in this film, because I couldn't help anticipating the
arrival of Joey and Chandler. Can you say, Typecast?But I digress -- so let me get to it. I give the Iceman 9 out of 10
Stars!Zombie Author, Phillip Tomasso http://www.philliptomasso.com/
