8
Great British drama which is worth to see for Hardy's performance alone.

It is extremely hard to make a movie based in one location. Further
more, it is even more difficult to create a movie with only one actor
present on the screen and it is extraordinary if the film is made in
real time, meaning from the moment the film begins till the end of the
final credits we are observing a melt down of one individual who lets
us understand what is happening in his life only with the phone calls
he makes in his car. In a nutshell this is what "LOCKE" a film by
Steven Knight is all about. "Ivan Locke, a dedicated family man and successful construction
manager, receives a phone call on the eve of the biggest challenge of
his career that sets in motion a series of events that threaten his
careful cultivated existence."For any movie to work you need to make sure that our protagonist always
is struggling with adversities on a highest level. The high stakes are
a must for the engagement of the audience in the story put forth by the
director how ever improbable. If we want to watch ordinary stories we
would go to our local market and watch normal life occur, or you can
paint the wall and watch the paint dry. We go to the cinema as a form
of escapism, that for 2 hours allows us to disconnect from the reality
of our own lives and get lost in the theater of make-believe. It is
extraordinary when we are in a car with our protagonist and somehow we
are truly entertained by the drama that is created when his life takes
turn for worse. Lets be honest here "LOCKE" in a larger sense is a tour
de force of excellent Tom Hardy who gives depth onto the choices he
makes as the construction manager Ivan Locke who's life falls apart in
front of us. Acting is reacting and it is extremely difficult to act
only using auditory stimuli, but this is what happens in "LOCKE". The
whole film consists of phone call conversations of our protagonist with
people who are participating in his meltdown as he is driving the car.
There is no clear antagonist here unless you would consider the highway
or the time to be the obstacle for our character to struggle with.Yet
the acting is so rich in internal dialogue that we are truly engaged
into the drama Mr. Locke is going through. Tom Hardy really delivers
one of the best underplayed, multi-layered performance in his career.
Apparently "LOCKE" had an unconventional shooting schedule were Tom
Hardy filmed his part in 6 days, shooting the movie twice per night as
it was filmed in a single take. The other actors were in a hotel room,
speaking on the phone with Hardy, who was on location. This created
sense of reality anticipation and drama that was extremely realistic. The big credit should also go to director of photography Haris
Zambarloukos who by adding filters on the lenses created beautiful
light flares that visually create an aesthetically pleasing light
ballet show that added additional atmosphere to otherwise repetitive
camera setups. I liked "LOCKE" a lot and in fact I saw it twice already
and for the movie that is based inside of a car, director Steven Knight
must have done something right to keep me engaged and I promise you
will be too. Great British drama which is worth to see for Hardy's
performance alone.For more of my movie reviews go to:
www.facebook.com/JanuszMadejTechnique
