1
Spends most of its time setting up the conclusion...

First of all, I didn't want to go and see this movie especially because
I saw the first part and while I was watching it I was really
interested in knowing why they were tested in the maze or who Thomas
and Teresa were, what they did before they were cast out into the maze,
etc... but unfortunately I got none of this answers, but what I did get
were a lot more mysteries but no answers, but it's not like LOST where
it leaves the audience thinking and putting things together and finding
out the mysteries, but it's more of a dull and predictable mysteries
every time they have some of the main characters talk to each other.This movie starts where the other one picked off, both in action and in
mysteries, you will get 0 answers as to how the virus infected the
world, or how the world was destroyed as it is, or what is the cure,
and mainly you will see that there is no real motivation to be on
wither side WICKD or the Gladers, because in fact what separates their
motivations is just the way they use the antidote and nothing more,
here there's more illogicalness than clever writing or a logical
explanation of why Thomas and the others are against WICKD, but yeah
the movies spends more of its time giving you more mysteries and making
you more interested in seeing the final conclusion than actually put
some sense into this chapter... Next, the dialogues are extremely cliché-d like: "you're not working as
fast as I need you", or "the boss arriving sooner than expected", "come
on let's go!", etc, etc... you get the picture. Although I might be
ignored, cause every useful reviews on this are from people who think
this movie is awesome, I need to say my opinion and save the money of
some people who want to go see this movie hoping it's a good one. More,
it seems like every time there is a dialog that can reveal key plot
points or mysteries, or memories, is cut short and the subject quickly
changes to something else, and it gets really frustrating, I was
laughing as hard as I could with my friend in the cinema, while
watching things like that or glass that breaks, then suddenly not
breaks, then finally breaks, it's like the glass listens to the movie
script, just like other things like storm or zombies. This movie got so bad, that at one point where it turned ridiculously
cliché-d and mysterious beyond any measure, I thought of leaving the
cinema, but I stayed out of respect for my friends who invited me to
see it, cause I would NEVER see a movie so cliché-d and stupidly
mysterious(I couldn't find any other words) in my life again. This is
just an insult to an intelligent mind because this movie just wants to
be too clever but ends up setting more mysteries and events for the
next movie than it resolves the mysteries or conflicts it already has. Even though there isn't a "Maze Runner" title to show at the beginning
of the movie, this movies feels ridiculously stupid about running in
every scene of the movie. All the conflicts or natural disasters end up
with the Young Adults running from those things. And yeah, you heard me
correctly, even the natural disasters are chasing the kids. At this
point I was having 0 expectations from the movie, and it didn't
surprised me after that, being only more cliché-d and predictable, not
even zombie's scares didn't frighten me, and honestly I remained with
pretty much nothing after this movie, unlike after I watch movies from
Stephen Spielberg, Nolan, Scorsese, Ron Howard, etc, etc... So to wrap up this review, don't go and see this movie, unless you are
bored to death and want to have some fun and laugh at how bad this
movie really is. By the way, the movie's rating is way too high, this
shows just how easily people are fooled and how easily their money are
wasted on things like this. This movie's real rating should be around
5-6, but until it gets there(which probably won't happen) I stick with
1.
