3
An Unfunny Comedy of Errors

First of all, I'm a woman and I'm pro gender equality and both men's
and women's rights.. and no this is not about armpit hair or female
power. I don't think art owes anyone anything. Here's why this movie
sucks on its own merits: 1- Out of all the Amazonians in the movie, Gal Gadot looks the weakest
and least fight- ready. She could've hit the gym as in her current
physique compared to women twice her age in the movie she looks like
the one who had to sleep with the coach to make the team. Her having
the only Hamstrings that swing like jelly amid a fight scene full of
women in their fifties makes you wonder. 2- Choosing the First World War as a background was a horrible idea! I
felt I was watching a war movie gone bad. Depressing, ugly, frustrating
and sad to watch to the point of distraction. What happened in WWI was
too tragic even for a superhero to fix. Terrible juxtaposition
insulting the sensibility of any person who read anything of value
about that war. 3- The introduction of how brave a child she was, was way too lengthy
and culminating into some of the most stupid scenes I've ever watched.
All that hogwash about not telling Wonderwoman who she "really" was
ends up getting on your nerves. 4- She sees a mortal from earth for the very first time and all the
movie has to allude to in their early conversations is his (according
to him) "above average" penis??? Come on! 5- She was annoyingly naive! More like wonder sissy not wonder WOMAN.
Hissy fits ooh take me to your leader! 6- The God of war, the super evil devil like character she has to fight
is an elderly guy completely out of shape and appears to be more like
the God of Arthritis. I thought Gods don't age judging by the fact that
she doesn't! Only male Gods do? Now that's sexist. 7- I would like to register here my great disdain (eff you Hollywood)
for making the villain in the movie someone with a scarred face. So
pretty people can't be villains? In fact all the villains are either
old, fat or scarred. 8- My second eff you Hollywood moment came when the spy object of
wonder "woman"'s (she was a virgin in the movie so please take note)
affection decides to save the world by flying away in a plane loaded
with all the lethal gas grenades but lo and behold instead of a million
sane solutions he decides to commit suicide for the cause making the
plane explode in the air with him in it. I thought this is pretty much
the same Jihadi principle of heroic suicide!! Bad, bad, bad! Not to
mention that such gas would kill people anyway in that nearby village
they were banging on about the entire time. I'm not even gonna go over
the scientific bullshit this movie is full of and historical
inaccuracies, or plain stupidity because boy oh boy that will take all
night .. but just one thing because it's really REALLY getting on my
nerves... how does a woman stuff a long sword down the back of
revealing dress having the blade go all the way down her ass (if that's
even possible at all), then a villain wraps his arm around her back to
dance without feeling it? Have the idiots who wrote this scene ever
held or seen a real sword? Do they know real swords aren't bendy? Wtf? 9- I'm not sure why there was a Red Indian guy in the British barracks
helping an English spy. Why Red Indian? Bring in the Chinese community
because the actor looks Chinese? Method in the madness or just madness? 10- The fight scenes are lame and boring. Really boring! In one
instance they had to speed the frame to make Gadot look like she's
doing something and they didn't even bother mask the fact the scene was
sped up digitally. 11- If Wonder "woman" kills the god of war making all the German
soldiers have an awakening kissing and hugging each other in great
relief they just lost (criiiiinnnggggeee moment), how come WWII started
only 19 years later? Did they think we will just forget about that one
because it's only a movie? Why not choose the background to be WWII so
it'll make more sense (if that's even possible for this movie?) ... 12- I felt I was watching an American wrestling WWF show gone really
bad... at one point, the men actually give Wonder "woman" a simple leg
up for her to fly high in the air to destroy a tower with her bare
fist. Which reminds me, my husband needs me to help give his nuclear
rocket a piggyback ride into outer space, so I'll talk to you later.
