8
Thriller that serves up a real mystery

We've all experienced the same monotonous train commute to work in our
lives at some point. You go by the same places and see the same faces
each and every day. None of us have quite had a commute that changes
our lives quite like Rachel Watson in The Girl on the Train though.Emily Blunt stars as Rachel Watson, an alcoholic divorcée who takes the
same train to work each day. On her journey, Rachel fantasises about
the relationship of Scott (Luke Evans) and Megan Hipwell (Haley
Bennett), who live a few doors down from her ex-husband, Tom (Justin
Theroux), and his new wife, Anna (Rebecca Ferguson).Rachel's unstable state leads her on a downward spiral that sees her
embroiled in a missing persons investigation that will change her life
forever.Based on the best-selling novel by Paula Hawkins, The Girl on the Train
is a mystery thriller that reminded me of David Fincher's Gone Girl,
which is not a bad thing at all. Now, while I don't think this is a
better film than Gone Girl, I do think it serves up a worthy mystery
that kept me guessing right up until the twist/reveal later on in the
story.The narrative is told from the point of view of the three main female
characters; Rachel, Anna and Megan. It could have easily become quite
convoluted and messy yet Erin Cressida Wilson's screenplay allows
things to move along smoothly and without any confusion.A lot of my hopes for this film were depending on the twist/reveal that
would undoubtedly arrive in a mystery like this. Thankfully I can say
that it was very well done and actually offered something totally
different to what I was expecting. Yes, it gets a little far-fetched in
the final act but if you go with it, The Girl on the Train really is a
suspenseful watch.Coming to the performances, The Girl on the Train features a great lead
performance from Emily Blunt and a solid supporting cast, Haley Bennett
and Rebecca Ferguson jumping on the paranoia train with Emily Blunt to
great effect. So, if you're a fan of either mysteries or thrillers, The Girl on the
Train will be a journey you want to go on. If not, best to wait at the
platform for the next train.
