4
Predictable and typical

I really do not get the hype about this movie. It has all the standard,
typical stuff for a movie in this genre, alongside with The Hunger
Games, Divergent and so on. That being said, I have not read the book
so this review is based on a simple guy heading to the movies with
friends. First, everything in this movie is predictable. From the second Cayman
entered the screen you could tell that she would be the powerful bitch.
She even wore makeup that made her ugly and annoying. You know, that
punchable face. Just like Dolores Umbridge in Harry Potter. I am sorry
to tell you that the predictable, annoying parts of this movie does not
stop here. Secondly, the seven sisters were way to different from each other for
it to be even close to realistic. In every single movie made for the
teenager segment (which this has to be), the group of characters is
always significantly different from each other. The clever one, the
computer geek, the strong one, and so on. Exactly like that is it with
these sisters. Wouldn't they become very similar by living literally
the exact same life? And of course, the evil, huge and powerful state. Obligatory for this
kind of movie, the bureau is super mean. Like, for no reason
whatsoever. They get the order from Cayman: Capture this random
innocent girl because she is a sibling. Fair enough. But out of the
blue the agents hate this girl so much they want to stab her in the
face and call her a whore. And then there's the dialogues. Yeah, you guessed it: predictable. The
webcam chat with the blonde one: "I love y.." *Bang*. Shot in the head.
I even heard a guy in the audience laugh when it was supposed to be a
surprising and heartbreaking moment, probably because he predicted it.
All of the dialogues are like this. The meetings around the table,
where everyone have to say a stereotypical phrase for their character.
The classic bust of the evil empire, literally on a huge screen in
front of the entire world. Caymans obligatory breakdown when she gets
busted, when she yells that everyone sucks and does not understand. On the other hand it is fair to say that I was entertained. Even though
everything is predictable and the ending is supposed to be surprising
(which it was not), I guess it is worth a watch. One of the things that
actually impressed me was Naomi Rapace and her acting skills. It
obviously is a hard job to have that many roles in the same movie.
Dafoe also does a good job as the caring but tough father. The minor
roles did not impress me though, and some were even quite annoying with
their typical lines like "step into the f*cking van" in bad English.
Some of the scenes were pretty cool, like the fighting, explosions,
special effects and getaways. However, that is pretty much the good
things about this movie.
