10
In Mexico, Sicario Means Hit-man. In my Mind, Sicario Means Awesome.

Director: Denis VilleneuveWriter: Taylor SheridanStarring: Emily Blunt, Benicio del Toro, and Josh BrolinRelease Date: September 18, 2015MPAA Rating: R for strong violence, grisly images, and languageRuntime: 2 hours and 1 minuteStudio: LionsgateI have never seen any of director Denis Villeneuve's previous films, so
I didn't know what to expect from this at first. However, I then saw
the trailer and it was so amazing, that it got me excited. The great
early reviews and cast, also helped as well. After seeing Sicario, I
can definitely say that it is a masterpiece of a crime thriller. Wow,
it was amazing.The plot of Sicario focuses on an FBI agent named Kate Macer. Kate is
enlisted by a government official to aid people from the other side of
the law, in their mission to track down a drug lord, who has been
responsible for multiple grisly murders.This sounds like a simple plot, on the surface, however the way it is
told is very engaging. There were honestly many moments, that I never
saw coming, and made the plot more unpredictable. The film could be a
slow burn for some, however I found myself consistently engaged
throughout, as those scenes do not drag the film, due to adding so much
to the story and the characters. It is also one of those films that is
very dark, unsettling, makes you feel dirty, watching it, and is really
scary.Speaking of characters, they're all very well developed, and it's made
better by incredible acting. Emily Blunt gives an incredible female
lead performance as Kate, who is shown to be a woman who hates
violence, but is still brave and very persistent into getting the job
done. Benicia del Toro and Josh Brolin play CIA agents and both are
great in this film. Especially del Toro, who does an amazing job
playing Alejandro Gillick, who may not seem very interesting at first,
but as the film progresses, he not only gets more character
developments, but this movie also takes many directions with this
character. Josh Brolin, is not quite as good as Blunt or del Toro, but
he is still really likable as Matt Graver, a character who is focused
on his job, despite not caring about other people. The cast shares
great chemistry, between each other.The direction is perfect. Denis Villeneuve creates so much suspense to
add to the story's unpredictability, and he gives one of the darkest
feels to this film, perfectly capturing the lack of hope in the story.
As a result, there are so many suspense scenes throughout, and the
action is unbelievably thrilling, fro the incredible opening scene to
the last shot of the film. The cinematography is also amazing, so
amazing that I actually felt that I was in the film, due to it's
realistic look.Sicario is not only my favorite film of the year so far, but it is one
of the best films released this decade that I have seen, so far. It is
A film that I could not find a single flaw with. It is amazingly
crafted, perfectly directed, and unsettling film, with its amazing,
story, performances, characters, action, everything from beginning to
end. This isn't a film that I'd recommend, if you don't like really
dark stories, or strong violence, but it still an amazing masterpiece
of a crime thriller.FINAL VERDICT: A+ (MASTERPIECE)
