8
Affecting, Without Being Manipulative

'If I Stay' is without shame a picture aimed straight at the tear
ducts, presumably in the belief that a good crying spell is both
therapeutic and cathartic for the spirit. And the picture mostly works
hard to earn its tears honestly: The characters are attractive and
appealing and likable, and the actors playing the characters also are
attractive and appealing and likable. This is the rare picture which
features no bad guys. Everybody's a good guy.Based on Gayle Forman's 2009 young adult novel of the same name, 'If I
Stay' chronicles the emotional experience of a buttoned-up 17-year-old
cello prodigy Mia Hall, played here by actress Chloe Grace Moretz, and
her worlds-colliding romance with an up-and-coming young rock-and-roll
guitarist named Adam. That both Mia and Adam are on the cusp of
professional breakthroughs in their musical pursuits accounts for most
the of the ups and downs in their relationship.Unfortunately, their romance is in the middle of one of its downs when
Mia and her family are involved in a catastrophic auto accident,
casting Mia into an out-of-body experience in which she can observe the
people she loves, but not communicate with them or interfere with their
actions.'If I Stay' is a picture that gives you the kind of satisfaction you
get from being on time for an appointment, following your doctor's
orders, eating the right cereal, taking your medicine as prescribed, or
getting a flu shot: You might rather be watching 'Guardians of the
Galaxy,' a 'Fast and Furious' movie or 'The Expendibles,' but you just
know that a movie with this much cello music in it has got to be good
for you.And it is fairly good. Young Mia has wonderful support from her
parents, a set of amiable former rockers played appealingly by Mirielle
Enos and Joshua Leonard. Leonard especially, late of 'The Blair Witch
Project' hysteria of 1999, has matured into a solid character actor and
possesses a sort of good-natured, loopy appeal which in 'If I Stay'
contrasts nicely with the buttoned-up performance of Moretz as his
daughter.In the film, it's shown in flashbacks that Mia's folks grew up and
embraced responsibility when it became apparent to them that the late
nights and party lights did not blend well with parenthood…an epiphany
which makes even more perplexing their almost pushing young Mia out the
door to be with her rocker boyfriend.As Mia's rock guitarist boyfriend, Jamie Blackley is somehow manages to
be sullen without actually pouting, and is simultaneously withdrawn and
inarticulate about romance yet strong-willed and verbose about music.
You can see why Mia's attracted to Adam, but if you're like me you
might be more than a little conflicted about their falling into bed
quite so quickly, especially if, like me, you view the picture with
your girlfriend's adolescent daughter present.Unfortunately, at some point—I'm not exactly not sure when, but I think
it's about an hour into the picture—the narrative becomes sticky and
manipulative, and the picture begins to rely on broad
characterizations, familiar stereotypes, and the familiarity of plot
devices from movies past, to sort of swindle the tears from the
audience.And that's too bad, because by that point I'd already decided I enjoyed
the picture, and was unprepared to modify my opinion. That the scene
which I believe began the manipulation featured the showcase moment for
veteran actor Stacy Keach, as the crusty but lovable old Grandpa, made
the cheat seem even more unexpected and surprising. Keach, much like
Robert Loggia, seems like such an honest, sturdy, and dependable actor.But having said that, about 80% of the success of 'If I Stay' belongs
to young Chloe Grace Moretz in the central role as Mia. Moretz is
earnest enough in her craft to make us care about young Mia even
through her most puzzling and selfish interludes.Moretz followed 'If I Stay' with a supporting role the high-profile
action film 'The Equalizer,' with Denzel Washington. And combined with
'If I Stay' and Moretz' affecting characterization in the title role of
the most recent remake of 'Carrie'—not to mention Hammer's
under-appreciated 'Let Me In' and the 'Kick-Ass' pictures—it's plain
that this is one young actress who's going places. Fast.I liked 'If I Stay.' But I think I already told you that.
