5
Diagnosis: Half-Way Decent Movie Suffers From Bad Writing

The first 'Jack Reacher' was a variant of Tom Cruise's usual action
thrillers in that it lacked almost any sense of a light tone. Contrary
to 'Mission: Impossible', this was very much Cruise's version of 'John
Wick' before there was such a thing. It was a step down from his M:I
movies in most respects, but I found it entertaining in different ways. This one is not quite as solid as the first for many reasons. First,
the supporting cast was a little weak. Even Cobie Smulders could have
turned in a better performance. Cruise is his usual kick-butt self; he
can turn lines that would normally sound cheesy into intimidating,
quotable material. However, the real problem is the dialogue these
characters are given to work with. It's not that interesting nor
compelling, and it all leads back to one thing: surprisingly average
writing. The film's plot already suffers from being something we've all seen
before. A setup, a gunfire-filled series of investigations, and a
conclusion. I fully expected Cruise to keep us entertained despite all
this, but even he can't save the movie from the clichés it falls prey
to. From the readable story to the odd addition of a maybe- daughter
that has to tag along with Reacher and Maj. Turner. I can't argue in
this film's favor at all. It should have been at least one star better
(the first film was a 7/10 for me). None of the action sequences were
that impressive, and really not a lot happened in them anyway; they
were hardly given the chance to even try to be impressive. The fact that the plot is less-interesting than the story that the
beginning of the movie shows being wrapped up is just the start. Jack
Reacher clearly needs to keep working on his own, because the bickering
that comes with him and Turner teaming up is not a necessary evil.
Somebody needed to make sure this was more compelling during the
rewrite sessions, if there were any. I'm by no means finished with the
Reacher movies, hopefully they can at least round them out into a film
trilogy. But if they do, better luck next time. 5/10 stars
