6
An above average true story

After being made to watch the trailer for this film a few times before
other films I actually had some interest in the lost city of z and this
film is alright but I don't really care if I ever watch it again. The
premise of the film sees an explorer go on an adventure to find a lost
city in the amazon. Charlie Hunnam plays the explorer in this film and
he does a great job in this film, at first I thought he was a little
stoic but he really grows as the film progresses. He brings a lot of
passion an humanity to his character and you do care about him and his
family situation. Robert pattinson from the twilight franchise is in
this film and he was really good as well, I really liked the friendship
that builds between him and hunnam and bought it. Sienna miller plays
hunnam's wife in this film and I thought she was a strong character and
her chemistry with hunnam was really good. Tom Holland who is the new
spider man is in this film and he does a really good job especially
when you consider that he is still a young man. Also it is great to see
ian McDiarmid who Is the emperor in the star wars franchise in a film
again. The story is easily the weakest part of this film, it follows
this guy and really his obsession with finding this city without really
good motivation. You never fully care about him finding the city and
this film goes through a lot of side plots that just aren't focused or
interesting enough for you to care. The script of the film has some
great dramatic monologues and dialogue that does help make you care
about the performance's. However, this film is a complete humourless
affair and it does hurt the film as there isn't really a moment to
relax. The style of the film has some decent action scenes in it and
some great cinematography. But it has severe pacing issues, as
mentioned before the film attempts to much and it makes this film a
rather boring affair. Overall this is an okay film but probably isn't
worth watching if you are not interested in the subject matter.
