8
Two Hours of Talk, Talk, Talk... and Absolutely Enthralling...

The 56th San Francisco International came to a close at the magnificent
Castro Theatre with a showing of Richard Linklater's "Before Midnight",
the third in Linklater's series of "Before" films. Preceded by "Before
Sunrise" and "Before Sunset", the film continues the story of Jesse and
Celine, now a middle-aged, two child couple on vacation in Greece.
Things are not quite right between the two, and there is much to be
said between them. So they talk. For two hours. And it is absolutely
enthralling.I have to admit that I haven't seen the first two films. I was aware of
them, but they just never jumped out at me as something I had to see. I
admire Linklater's work ( I thought last year's "Bernie" was one of the
best films of the year) but just never had a reason to put seeing those
films above others I had more interest in. I attended the screening
mainly because it was the closing night film, but had concerns that not
having seen the previous two would put me at a disadvantage in
appreciating his latest. Festival friend (and "Before" series lover)
Stacy McCarthy assured me the film stands on its own.She was right. Nothing much goes on in this film but conversations
between people, but these conversations are fascinating and have a
sense of reality about them often missing from films of this nature.
Credit for that obviously goes to director Linklater and actors Ethan
Hawke and Julie Delpy, who collaborated on the script. It doesn't hurt
that the film was shot in Greece, but the picturesque beauty of that
country comes second to the riveting portrayal of a couple at the stage
of life where the often painful questioning of a couple's future
begins.Two hours with these characters flew by, and as the credits rolled my
first thoughts were about how much I really liked the film, and how I
need to think more "out of the box" when it comes to selecting films to
view. I'm guilty of often limiting my scope, and I'm thankful that Film
Festivals force me to widen my film horizons.www.worstshowontheweb.com
