6
Difficult to rate

First of all, I want to list the positives in this movie, because there
are several. The concept of falling in love with an AI is a great one.
The cinematography and use of color in "Her" is really beautiful. The
acting is uniformly good. Particularly Amy Adams, who plays an
understated role as a nerdy girl next door who may have feelings for
Theodore; despite a relatively quiet part, she completely inhabits Amy,
making her feel like an actual person. Joaquin Phoenix does a great job
(as usual) with Theodore, and Scarlett Johanson makes you believe she
really is a computer with a heart. But I wanted to highlight Adams's
performance; especially alongside her much larger role in American
Hustle, she deserves a few big wins this year.That being said... I have to admit it, I got a little bored watching
this movie. If you forget that Samantha is a computer and think of her
as a human being, which is easy to do, this movie is basically a series
of relationship conversations between Joaquin Phoenix and a camera
phone. The pace is surprisingly slow, and since the "girl" has no body,
it's difficult to visually show their relationship. You have the
requisite "quirky" scenes with Phoenix running through the subway,
playing a ukulele, sitting on the beach fully clothed. The rest of the
movie is basically talking. Samantha expresses lots of deep ideas about
being a computer, but they are never visualized. This can work to great
effect -- the scene when Theodore and Samantha "make love" to a totally
black screen is the most brilliant one in the movie, even if it goes a
little over the top. But you feel like Jonze missed a lot of chances to
show us what the characters are saying about love, and life, rather
than just have them tell us via voice-over. It broke a golden rule:
"show, don't tell". The plot never really moves, and the concept starts
to lose steam. There's a totally unnecessary video game subplot that I
won't even bother to go into. The movie's observations about love and
life were fairly obvious, as well, even veering into sappy. I hate
having to write that, because I felt like the movie's heart was in the
right place, and it had so much potential. But it just wasn't as
interesting as I had hoped.There is a lot to like about "Her", and despite its flaws, I would
still recommend it as one of the better movies of the year. I just
think it could have been a lot more than what it is.
