5
Visually stimulating, but it limps along with its script

Luc Besson's The Fifth Element has gained a cult following due to its
weird story and out there set designs. Now Besson is tackling another
wacky space opera type movie with Valerian and the City of a Thousand
Planets which is a graphic novel that was an inspiration for Star Wars.
Now we did have a similar scenario with John Carter as an inspiration
for multiple films receiving a modern film adaptation after many films
have been released that have taken inspiration out of it. There is the
danger of it feeling cliché despite the age of the source material, but
the result results in a gorgeous looking movie with a weak script and
characters.Good: The main draw are the visuals and they are wonderful. The world
that is displayed looks lived in and fascinating with its technology
and alien beings. The CG is well rendered and explodes with an array of
colors. The action scenes are fun with a good dose of creativity such
as an multi-dimensional chase scene in the beginning of the movie.
Rihanna also receives what could possibly be the best scene in the
movie that is both creative and fun.Bad: The script is the biggest detriment to this whole movie. The
attempts of humor are lame with unfunny jokes and banter that barely
warrants a laugh. The script also adds some cheesy lines that are more
eye rolling than cheeky fun. Dane DeHaan as Valerian is miscast because
I just can't believe him as this super soldier. He also puts on a tough
guy voice that is annoying. Cara Delevingne has a better character, but
she's also fairly wooden. This means there is no chemistry between them
thus making the banter ineffective. Like I mentioned earlier, the story
showing its age because other movies released since the graphic novel
has shown the same elements and pulled them off later.Overall, this movie could've been fun. It has the visuals and the
action, but the script and characters were way too weak to match the
surreal world. It is good for a rental, but I say stick to The Fifth
Element.
