2
***SPOILERS*** Great idea, awful execution

The idea behind this movie is great and could have made for a good
movie. But it seems the director went so all out for edge-of-your-seat
scenes that he forgot that overdoing drama can ruin a good drama.So to give you just a few examples of silly writing: 1) There is a task
force surrounding the building in which the siblings live. They fire
smoke grenades into the building from the ground floor. Every single
grenade manages to hit its target - smashing through small windows into
the apartment. Not a single miss.2) the siblings make their way through the building and use the fire
escape to make their exit. Of course, the back entrance to a building
is always the safe way to leave when you have a determined army looking
to make you disappear. I mean, why would the army want to guard a back
door? That would be a waste of men! 3) The task force who have planned this intrusion storm the building.
The a sibling returns to the apartment and collects some aerosol cans
and pops them in the microwave for 60 seconds. Then she breaks a gas
line. Meanwhile the task force have gathered outside the apartment
door. Way more than 60 seconds elapse as the sibling attends to some
last minute photo transfers, then she presses send and as the microwave
counts down to zero, this is the exact moment the task force attempt go
to make their move, and the moment the sibling finishes her dramatic
sentence. The microwave hits zero and the apartment explodes -
propelling the task force into the air. (So who knew that aerosol cans
take exactly 1 minute in a microwave to detonate!?). And there's enough
gas in the building to completely destroy it, yet not a single member
of the task force smell gas and think twice about entering the
apartment4) in the very next scene, the leader of the task force, who one would
have thought took the brunt of the explosion that destroyed the
apartment is stood on the ground floor unscathed giving orders to his
team.This is just one scene. But there are loads of scenes like this that
take the film beyond credulity and, for me anyway, spoilt the movie.Shame
