9
Rust & Bone is the story of two broken people coming together

"Cotillard and Schoenaerts bring the story of two broken people to the
screen in the best way I could have imagined." Famed french director Jacques Audiard is probably most known for his
2009 academy award nominated film "Un prophète". This time around he
makes an unconventional love story between two people. Alain van Versch
(Matthias Schoenaerts) is a father who is having a hard time after
losing his job leading to moving in with his sister. While out on a
bouncer job he meets killer whale trainer Stéphanie (Marion Cotillard),
after an accident at her job she loses her legs which leads to her
calling him starting up this friendship between the two as she tries to
explore her new life without the ability to walk around. When he starts
to fight for money she tags along and gets to see a different side of
him which leads to the two developing their relationship further then
friends.Audriard has made a fascinating film mainly due to the performances he
is able to get from his actors. The film seemed so well made to me
because these two characters go from either top to bottom or the
opposite way round but either way the two characters seem so good for
each other as they help the other get through life better. The film
contains some very moving scenes which are set to some very modern
music. A sequence set to Katy Perry's "Firework" is a continuing trend
in the film as it is first played in front of a whale show then set to
a scene with Cotillard which is the best sequence in the film. The film
can get very violent most noticeable in the fight scenes Alain has to
do to get money to provide for his family. There is one scene where
Cotillard's character after the accident finds herself in the bed
without any legs and it is just heartbreaking to see this once happy
women start to descend into depression.Schoenaerts plays Alain and he is stellar as this man who cannot
separate his work from his personal life. His relationship with his son
has it's bad points when he cannot except that his child is weak which
leads to him treating him not in the best way. His relationship with
Cotillard is sweet as he try's to help this women get through life.
Cotillard plays Stéphanie and once again she gives another amazing
performance solidifying her as one of greatest talents working today.
This women quickly changes from her happy self to a very depressed
women who finds it hard to deal with her life until this man comes into
her life. She does transform into a happier person once he comes along
to help her which leads to her helping him in the end. These two
performances need to other one to make you enjoy them more.Maybe not as good as his previous film Audriard has still made a
relationship movie that does not go for obvious but goes for a more
personal approach as you care for how these characters develop over the
certain amount of time. With fantastic performances by its leads and a
great story Rust & Bone is surely one of the best films of the year.MOVIE GRADE: A- (MVP: Marion Cotillard)
