8
Wild fire disaster movie packs an emotional wallop

"Only the Brave" (2017 release; 133 min.) brings the story if the
Granite Mountain Hot Shots fire squad. As the movie opens, "Based on
True Events" we are reminded, we get to know Eric Marsh and his gang,
as they are trying to get certified as Hot Shots, allowing them to
combat wild fires in the front line. We also get to know Brendan, a
doped-out loser whose girlfriend just got pregnant. Realizing he needs
to turn his life around, Brendan applies to join the fire squad and for
reasons unknown until much later in the movie, Eric decides to give
Brendan a shot. In a parallel story, we also get to know Eric;s wife
Amanda, a horse whisperer. But not all is well in their marriage... At
this point we are 15 min. into the movie but to tell you more of the
plot would spoil your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for
yourself how it all plays out.Couple of comments: this is the latest movie from up-and-coming
director Joseph Kosinski, who previously directed "Ton: Legacy" and
"Oblivion". In his latest, he steers away from sci-fi and instead
brings us the incredible story of the Prescott, AZ wild fire squad,
nicknamed the Granite Mountain Hot Shots. I expected a disaster movie,
and there is certainly that too, but the movie does much more than
that: it brings the story of a group of people in a way that you are
completely emotionally invested in those people, and you CARE. Kosinski
directs an all-star cast, headed by Josh Brolin as Eric. Is it just me,
but Brolin only seems to get better as he is getting older. That guy is
just solid and authentic. Miles Teller plays the role of Brendan, an
unlikable character at first. Jennifer Connelly is outstanding as
Eric's wife Amanda. Taylor Kitsch is one of the guys in the fire squad.
In much smaller roles, Jeff Bridges is Duane (Eric's superior), and the
ageless Andie MacDowell plays Duane's wife. The movie's photography is
eye-candy, and the wild fire scenes, which I imagine are mostly CGI,
look very real to me. Last but not least, there is a very nice musical
score, courtesy of composer Joseph Trapanese (who has worked with
Kosinski before)."Only the Brave" opened wide this weekend, and I was really looking
forward to seeing it. The Friday evening screening where I saw this at
here in Cincinnati was attended only so-so (less than half a fairly
small theater), somewhat to my surprise, given the stellar critical
acclaim this movie has been getting. I can only speak for myself, but I
found this to be an outstanding wild fire disaster movie that packs an
emotional wallop I didn't expect. I encourage you to check out "Only
the Brave", be it in the theater, on VOD, or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray,
and draw your own conclusion.
