1
A flashy production with no substance

At the time of writing, there are only 7 out of 120 user reviewers that
did not like the movie. I know I will receive a multitude of unhelpful
votes for voicing my honest feedback about this movie. However, I hope
that my feedback will be helpful for people who are able to judge a
film in an objective manner so that they, at least, will be able to
save their hard earned cash.Firstly, the main antagonist is a Marvel character that has been
completely changed for this movie. It bears no background similarity to
the character in the comics whatsoever. I understand that the Marvel
movies are all about making a spin on the comic book story arcs, but
this difference was far too large for me to accept.Whilst watching the movie, I had to ponder whether I had stepped into a
Marvel Superhero version of "Fast and Furious". There was a continuous
message that family is important and how the protagonists became who
they were due to disenfranchised childhoods. Whilst this is a valid
point, I do not feel that it belongs in a superhero action movie as it
serves no purpose. Worse was when the message contradicted itself when
we see Peter Quill betrayed by his Father. The clumsiness of this
contradiction did nothing to alleviate the sickly sweet message that
the movie was trying to convey. I get that James Gunn is trying to send
out a message to the younger generation but I would think that kids go
to watch a superhero movie for the action, and will not really
appreciate or acknowledge the message that he is driving.Unlike the first movie, there was a distinct lack of character focus
and their abilities. It could easily have been an action movie without
superheroes. In fact, the movie seemed to be focused on two characters
when it came to showcasing their abilities. One of these had a sequence
that was inspired by the Quicksilver scenes in the X-Men movies. The
other was extremely underwhelming and was defeated far too incredibly
when you consider the differences in age and experiences. None of the
characters were interesting with the exception of Nebula and Mantis.
However, Pom Klementieff played her role like a stuttering female
cyborg that I even thought the role was played by an East Asian actress
before I checked the cast members. The actors paid to play the new
characters were miscast in my opinion. Sylvester Stallone's performance
reminded me of his Judge Dredd and not in a good way.It was clear that the popular factors in the first movie were taken and
overdone in the second movie. Drax was made to look like a dumb fool
once again but even more than in the first movie. While the CGI effects
were good, the cuteness factor of Baby Groot served only to market the
movie to kids and geek girls, and to rake in merchandise profit. There
was also constant mention and focus on the cassette mix which was
totally unnecessary (again, for merchandise promotion).With the exception of Captain America and the first two Avengers and
Thor movies, why do the Marvel movies have to be over-saturated with
humor? It's one thing to market the movies to a wider audience but it's
totally another thing when it's taken too far, and the humor becomes so
clichéd.
