8
Chix Chat on Film Review: Reacher is the Man!

Jack Reacher (Tom Cruise) is the tale of a very astute ex-military
policeman. The army training came in quite handy as he digs into the
evidence of a heinous crime that turns out to be not at all what it
seems to be on the surface. I was surprised at how funny the dialogue
in this film was, it is definitely not a comedy, but the sarcastic and
comedic one-liners kept coming, even in situations that were completely
devoid of a humorous setting there was some very amusing conversation.
There was even a scene in which Reacher is attacked in a bathroom that
had me cracking up at the bumbling bad guys. The comedy was heightened
even further with the old codger Cash (Robert Duvall). Mr. Duvall
always delivers a convincing performance, same here. As with any film
that features Mr. Cruise the expectation is that it will be fast paced
and very entertaining, same here. The only thing missing was his
trademark sprint to or after something or anything. I've just come to
expect to see him running, really running but we are getting older. The
trailer is the only kind that I like, the ones that do not give away
the whole movie. It shows that Reacher is bad a$$ without playing out
every aspect of the story. David Oyelowo (Emerson) is one to watch, he
is building an impressive resume and it is easy to see why because
whenever he portrays a character he is that character. When he played a
pilot in Red Tails, I totally believed he could fly a plane. When he
was the head of a company experimenting on Apes, I was again thoroughly
convinced and I believed every aspect of his being a police detective.
One of the best car chase scenes that I've seen lately was in this
film. There were so many attributes of this film that I liked,
including the sexual tension between Reacher and Helen Ronin (Rosamund
Pike) that I will just sum it up by saying. Everything just seemed to
be genuine and authentic, even though I know that the fights are staged
they looked logistically correct, but Steven Segal did come to mind. I
liked that the film had a legitimate beginning and end, even if there
are subsequent Jack Reacher tales to follow, there was no gaping wide
open door of a final scene leaving the audience wondering 'What's up
with that?!?'. But I do hope there are sequels, at least one. I give it
a green light
