9
Refreshingly Accurate

Audiences sometimes show a tendency to stay away from movies founded
upon actual people or events, possibly resisting the feeling of
allowing a history lesson to interfere with their entertainment. Even a
terrific movie such as "The Right Stuff" in 1983 suffered at the box
office because many film-goers mistakenly believed the picture to be a
documentary.Possibly that's the reason Fox Searchlight Pictures is opening the
wonderful new movie "Battle of the Sexes" with such apparent caution,
debuting first in major cities and adding additional locations as the
picture builds critical and popular momentum."Battle of the Sexes" depicts with refreshing accuracy an actual 1973
event, at a time when women in sports were achieving some parity with
men. The aging Bobby Riggs, sensing in the times an opportunity for
self-promotion and financial gain, publicly challenged in turn two of
tennis' reigning female champions혰first Margaret Court and then Billie
Jean King혰to matches against him, boasting no woman could compete and
prevail in a sporting activity against a man.It seems like the only person who's trying to turn "Battle of the
Sexes" into a history lesson is actor Steve Carell, playing the
real-life former tennis champion turned gambler, promoter, and hustler
Bobby Riggs. Carell disappears so completely into his characterization
of Bobby Riggs that it often seems like there's no Steve Carell left.That might be a wonderful achievement for Carell as an actor. But in
vanishing so completely into his role, Carell risks alienating the
audience in much the same way Dustin Hoffman and Jim Carrey did in
1974's "Lenny" and 1999's "Man on the Moon." Both Hoffman and Carrey
were consumed so completely by their impersonations that they forgot
their primary goal was to entertain the audience혰in their
characterizations, Lenny Bruce and Andy Kaufman, the real-life comics
they portrayed, became deeply unfunny and unsympathetic people. Faring better in "Battle of the Sexes" is actress Emma Stone as Billie
Jean King. With little cosmetic modification beyond her hair style and
the addition of King's trademark glasses, Stone easily captures the
iconic tennis star's natural dignity and poise. That King is depicted
as also coming to terms with her sexuality might be the telescoping of
events for dramatic purposes, but the point works well in creating a
human dimension in a character who might otherwise have been depicted
as too driven, goal-oriented, and bloodless.Written by Simon Beaufoy and directed by the team of Jonathan Dayton
and Valerie Faris, "Battle of the Sexes" becomes a richly enjoyable
chronicle of a time and event modern audiences might find difficult to
imagine. Those fearing a civics seminar or a documentary can relax혰in
this retelling, history takes a backseat to superb entertainment.
