4
Better not seen

This is what happens when the entirety of your movie is based off of a
gimmick; it's one thing to give an engaging new spin to a genre concept
and quite another to play your forced contrivances for supposed shock
value. There are fine home invasion thrillers like Don't Breathe(2016) that
while engaging in a different take on the genre trope, still manage to
stay true to the spirit of the genre, delivering the much needed
thrills in good measure. This misfire of a movie, Better Watch Out
however, is one that is so pleased with it's little twist that it
forgets to invest in anything that is remotely honest or earnest to
make it a worthwhile viewing experience. The lacklustre start does not do the movie any favours but just as
things seem to be settling in, it's all thrown out for a plot twist
that from the very moment of inception robs the story of any suspense
or thrill whatsoever. From this great twist onwards, the movie becomes
an exercise in stringing together one implausible scenario to another,
each one trying vying for that highly sought after shock value. When movies of this genre work, they work because they successfully
manage to place the viewer in the protagonist's shoes, and in doing so
generate the dread and suspense that drew audiences to it in the first
place. Better Watch Out throws that all out the window, failing to
invest in atmosphere, juxtaposing jarring scenes with cheery, melodious
Christmas carols that much like the film itself, elicits a chuckle at
first but soon runs out of steam. In the handful of scenes that the
movie tries to humanize any of it's characters, it only feigns
poignancy. The acting by everyone involved is commendable and the pacing is fine
as well. At the end however, not only does the story resort to a plethora of
plot conveniences, in all it's showyness it forgets to let the viewer
in on the fun. Having your maniacal lead jive to jovial music, is no
fun; it just propagates the tonal mishmash of genres and tricks. For a
movie that is supposedly a comedy, horror, thriller feature, this one
trick pony was far from funny or thrilling, just endlessly nihilistic,
a repugnant mess with a sour after taste that you'll want to wash off
as quickly as possible.
