9
A Thrilling, Fun and Beautiful Film. A True Resurrection.

It's the Bond film we've all been waiting for. After the stunning
reinvention of Casino Royale and the misstep that followed with Quantum
of Solace, Skyfall feels like a true resurrection of the character and
the Bond universe, and an incredible addition to the storied franchise.
From its spectacular opening scene in Istanbul to its sensational
climax in the Scottish Highlands, the film grabs hold of the audience
and never lets go.With the great Sam Mendes at the helm, Skyfall is propelled by a
veritable narrative purpose. Mendes values story and character over
anything, and he gets Bond. His action sequences are thrilling,
artfully directed, and a joy to watch. He directs with finesse and
nuance the powerful character-driven scenes. He understands the soul
and essence of Bond and respects the spirit of the franchise but also
breaks new ground with the treatment of the story.Speaking of which, the script tells a moving, thematically resonant and
intelligent story, and features superbly written scenes. It is more
focused than Quantum of Solace, which felt oddly disjointed at times.
Writers Neal Purvis, Robert Wade and John Logan elegantly balance
humorous moments with truly dramatic ones while never straying from the
emotional heart of the film. Best of all, they further develop Casino
Royale's brilliant idea of delving into Bond's vulnerability and the
result is a fascinating and flawed character. The human and moral
stakes are high and much more personal this time around. The audience
feels emotionally invested in the story. In the end, the film is a
reflection on aging and on not only why the world needs Bond but also
why he must and will endure.Visually, Skyfall is a true wonder. Roger Deakins' cinematography is
aesthetically magnificent and serves the story well. Deakins shoots
Istanbul, London, Macau, Shanghai and the Scottish Highlands in a
tasteful, artistic and original manner. It is by far the most
beautifully shot Bond I have ever seen. Thomas Newman's score is
terrific and rich, cleverly using the classic Bond theme in new and
interesting ways and incorporating Adele's already-classic theme to
create a memorable piece of music.Finally, the cast all deliver fine performances. Daniel Craig gives a
thoughtful, moving and nuanced performance, which constitutes his
strongest interpretation of the character to date. Judi Dench offers a
much more intimate and personal take on M. Ralph Fiennes, Albert
Finney, Ben Whishaw, Naomie Harris and Berenice Marlohe are memorable.
And what to say of Javier Bardem, who steals every scene he appears in?
He is funny, unpredictable, frightening and most interestingly, tragic.
A fantastic Bond villain.If you had any reservation about seeing this film after the lacklustre
Quantum of Solace, fear no more. Skyfall redeems faults of the past and
is one of the best films of the year. It hits all the right notes. Sam
Mendes has infused Bond with a deft sense of fun, pathos and class.It's a great time at the movies.
