9
Assorted Trivia for AV2....

Can this film possibly "not" succeed? No. Even if it were a bomb (which
it is most definitely not) tens of millions of fans would see it
anyway. So it was a guaranteed hit. Nice work if you can get it.Best line? "I support your avenging." (Mrs. Hawkeye)Second Best line? "You get hurt. Hurt em back. You get killed. Walk it
off." (CA)Third Best? "Well I was born yesterday." (you know who)Honorable mention? "Beep beep" (Natasha on her cycle, mimicking her
horn, trying to warn pedestrians)Why did Spader get the Ultron gig? Because of his incredible work in
Blacklist. (See it)What's the best part of this (somewhat long) movie? The back-and-forth
between the characters, a Whedon trademark. And of course the action
scenes. Possibly the best ever filmed.What's the worst part? The 40 minute "dead zone" after the Bond-style
opening, where the Avengers try to make like it's Happy Hour at the
local bar.Which actor consistently shines? Downey. He is the smartass each of
secretly wants to hang out with.Which actor suffers the most in group play? Thor. The gravitas of being
a God gets lost in team work.Name a massively over-exposed actor who finally got under-exposed? Sam
Jackson.What could we have lived without? "Explaining" to the audience why
characters like Pepper Potts were "unavailable" for the story (or
possibly too expensive even for a quick cameo)What is Whedon's greatest enhancement to the Marvel backstory? The
romance between Natasha and Hulk.What is Whedon's strangest tweak? Killing Pietro. The boys at the X-Men
franchise will not be happy.Is this a better movie than AV1? No, but it is just as good. (It tries
harder but has pacing issues).Who wins at the end? The studio. And Joss Whedon who BOTH wrote and
directed what could be the biggest money-maker in history. Somewhere in
Hollywood, JJ Abrams is actually getting nervous.-------------------------------------------------------------------UPDATED Jan 16 -- OK, so JJ deconstructed the original Star Wars script
scene by scene (something no one else had ever bothered to do) and
rebuilt it into the 2015 relaunch of Star Wars. And nailed it. The
viewer experience, the pacing, is dead-on. And oh by the way produced
the fastest film in history to hit 1.0 billion in ticket sales. So
disregard the last line of the original review above. JJ is no longer
nervous.
