8
Mature, explicit "coming-of-age" story that rattles yet inspires

The title "The Diary of a Teenage Girl" sounds like it would entail a
fairly tame iteration on a female coming-of-age story, yet Marielle
Heller's debut as both writer and director happens to be the boldest
coming-of-age indie ever made – and the most challenging."Diary" stars Bel Powley as Minnie, a 15-year-old aspiring cartoonist
in 1970s San Francisco looking for an opportunity to lose her
virginity. She does, and it comes in the form of her mother's (Kristen
Wiig) boyfriend, Monroe (Alexander Skarsgard). As their illicit
relationship becomes more and more involved and complicated, Minnie's
relationship with her sexuality – and herself -- becomes equally so.There's no denying that it is difficult to overcome the moral issues of
Minnie and Monroe's affair, and it requires of Heller a very sensitive
touch and an iron-clad sense of purpose. She sugarcoats nothing for
those with delicate sensibilities. There are a lot of sex scenes that
by their very nature will make viewers uncomfortable, but Heller
successfully avoids exploiting the character or veering off-message.
She treats Minnie as an adult, and in her writing, it's clear that
neither character is solely responsible or solely to blame for the
relationship. The hardest thing to shake, as a viewer, is our tendency to be moral
judges of Minnie's decisions and to hold notions of what the
consequences should or will be for her actions. Switching gears and
abandoning that approach to watching this story will be harder for some
than others, but once it becomes clear that Heller's vision is
completely judgment free, it becomes easier to embrace that aspect of
the film.Naturally, the explicit nature "The Diary of a Teenage Girl" makes it
instantly different than most coming-of-age movies. The usual
archetypes associated with this sub-genre are much less ubiquitous, and
the notion of a "loss of innocence" in the literary sense gets
completely redefined here considering Minnie actively plays a role in
it. The '70s time frame is a bit of a clue that this is not a movie
intended for budding teenagers, rather for people who have already been
through such formative, challenging experiences. Further evidence: the
story comes from Phoebe Gloeckner's semi- autobiographical graphic
novel of the same name.The maturity of the film, especially as it sees Minnie, requires a lot
of Powley. She must be wide-eyed and optimistic, yet also advanced for
her age and kind of devious. She must be sure of herself, yet unsure at
various moments throughout the film. Powley (22 at the time of filming)
is just old enough to get it down pat. As much as Minnie has flaws, we never come to despise her, and that
credit belongs to the writing. There's a poetry to the diary narration
in the film, but it's language that resonates. So much of what Minnie
thinks and feels mirrors our own experiences (especially the
insecurities), even if those experiences weren't as scandalous.Because we see the supporting characters from Minnie's perspective,
they have to work harder to earn our empathy. It's virtually impossible
for Skarsgard to earn it as Monroe, but he does convey that Monroe is a
deeply lost, childlike soul. Wiig, on the other hand, does an
impressive job in this non-traditional role for her as the mom,
Charlotte. Charlotte does hard drugs with friends and says all the
wrong things to her daughter, but her love for Minnie is apparent as
are her other struggles. Her lack of affection and approval of Minnie
undoubtedly has a hand in her desire to seek it through Monroe and
others through sex.The animated graphic elements styled after the novel are excellent, if
not underutilized. At the same time, adding this facet to the movie
creates a slight bombardment of storytelling styles. You have the
narration piece, the cartoon/animation piece and then the fact that
this is a movie. It splinters the film's identity a bit, but all these
media have something to offer the viewer in conveying Minnie's journey
and experiences.Where Minnie arrives at the end of the movie is pretty satisfying and
inspiring, even if you have to wonder whether a 15-year-old is really
capable of arriving there. The story has a strong feminist message that
people still struggle to learn, and has real-world value. It took some
really uncomfortable, traumatic stuff for her to get there, but her
self-discovery is more poignant than most of her indie coming-of-age
peers.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit Movie Muse Reviews for more
