5
Eh, it was okay I guess.

I don't consider myself a brony, even though I've seen some episodes of
Friendship Is Magic. I haven't seen every episode, but I've seen enough
from each season that I have a good idea of what the show is all about.
I personally don't like the first few seasons but the series does get
better as it goes along. Overall, it's fine. It's a fine show. It's not
the most amazing thing ever like some would lead you to believe, and
it's not cancer like others make it out to be. Considering it's a show
aimed at 5-year-old girls, this is the best show aimed specifically at
that demographic I've ever seen. The strongest aspects of the show are
it's good voice acting, relatively complex plots for a little kids
show, and character arcs that span multiple episodes. You can tell a
lot of effort was put into it, the creators have respect for their
audience, and it doesn't feel cynically pandering at all.For this reason, I decided to give the first theatrical movie based on
the series a chance.So how does the movie hold up? Eh, it was okay I guess. The animation
reminds me of the Spongebob Squarepants movies where it's a little
different from the TV show, and the cinematography is more
traditionally cinematic, but it still captures the same spirit of the
show's universe. Out of the six new songs featured in the film, at
least half of them advance the plot in one way or another, and aren't
there just to pad things out. Yes, you guessed it, the lyrics of all
the songs are about friendship. The female villain pony has a decent
amount of depth to her character, although she does have the generic
scar over one eye that every villain seems to have these days.This seems to be a movie designed for people already familiar with the
series since little is done to develop the main six or establish the
world of Equestria. Imagine the show didn't exist. You'd know almost
nothing about the main characters or the film's universe. None of the
characters really have an arc. With the exception of one character, no
one changes or learns anything that they didn't already know at the
beginning.The dialogue in the show was fairly timeless, but the dialogue in the
film is more modernized, which felt a little weird since its directed
by a guy who's directed a bunch of other MLP stuff, so you'd think
they'd try to keep things consistent. The cat character felt like a
Puss In Boots ripoff at first, that is until he opened his mouth. I
can't say I was expecting that voice to come from that character. I
know the FIM universe has other nations with species other than ponies,
but this still felt like a move to appeal to the furry demographic as
well as the bronies. Why did the bird pirates still have all their
pirate stuff on board their airship? They presumably got employed and
their ship would have to fit regulations, right? The movie ends
Zootopia-style with a pop song no one's gonna remember.Since I compared this to the Spongebob movie earlier, one point I wanna
bring up is that this movie doesn't have much of an emotional center.
Now you may be wondering "what emotional scenes were in the Spongebob
movie?". Well you watch the scene where Spongebob and Patrick are
"dying" on the drying table in Shell City and tell me you don't get at
least a little teary eyed! The best family movies are the ones with a
certain level of emotional maturity and treat their audience like
thinking adults. Half the MLP fan base is 25-year-old males. You might
as well give them something more.If you or your children are die hard fans of the franchise, go knock
yourselves out. If this was surprisingly great like the LEGO movie, I
would have no problem recommending it. Unfortunately, My Little Pony:
The Movie doesn't offer much to entice the average moviegoer.
