4
Disappointing Biblical Debacle

This film tackles a story that had already been tackled very well in
previous films. The most famous of them all is the epic "The Ten
Commandments" with Charlton Heston as the definitive Moses. Other
filmmakers have tried to replicate this Moses story with different
actors or even in animation, but the 1956 classic remains secure in its
place. This year, yet another attempt is made by director Ridley Scott with
big star Christian Bale as Moses, a combination is too promising to
ignore. So despite the lukewarm to negative early reviews, I wanted to
see and judge this film for myself.We all know the story of Moses from the book of Exodus. He was a Hebrew
who grew up in the Egyptian palace side by side with Pharaoh's own son
Ramses. When Moses' real origin was revealed, he was exiled. There in
the wilderness, he obeys God's orders by way of the burning bush to
return to Egypt to ask the new Pharaoh to set the Hebrews free from
slavery. Only after God sent ten dreadful plagues did Ramses relent.
Moses led the Hebrews across the Red Sea and into the Promised Land of
milk and honey.This film is basically faithful with the biblical story, with the
advantage of higher technology in special visual effects to create
grander vistas and more realistic plagues. It tried to inject some
scientific logic into the supernatural events, particularly the Red Sea
crossing. However, the explanation for the turning of water into blood
was quite a stretch. Moses did not have a staff that turned into a
snake nor part the Red Sea. The Angel of Death scenes were presented
curiously just like the way it was done on "The Ten Commandments"!The lackluster portrayal by the actors added to the coldness of the
film. I don't know if Christian Bale did not make a very good Moses. He
felt like he was going through the motions here, no passion whatsoever.
Joel Edgerton was totally wrong as Ramses. He looked ill at ease the
whole film, and it was obvious from the posters alone! The presence of
Ben Kingsley, Sigourney Weaver and Aaron Paul in cast were wasted in
small unremarkable roles. Some people may expect this to be a religious film. However, the whole
film felt soul-less, and this made the long 150-minute running time
seem so unbearably slow. The very way God was portrayed did not sit
very well with me. God in this film was personified as an imperious
young boy who was projected to be mercilessly violent and vindictive.
There was no hint of compassion nor magnanimity here. Moses was even
arguing against God. The film felt like it had an anti-God undertone,
even atheistic, which was uncomfortable for me. This is yet another
disappointing Biblical film debacle this year, though I would not
consider as bad as the total disaster that was "Noah". 4/10.
