7
A mixed bag of goo

I enjoyed this movie, I had not heard about any of the hype until after
I watched it so I had no preconceived ideas.Casey is getting married and goes on a hen party trip with two of her
friends. They go off the beaten track to a natural pool which is
recommended to them by someone they meet. Casey is bitten under the
water by some kind of bug. After returning home she notices a rash on
her shoulder whilst in the bath. Areas of her body become inflamed with
raised large lumps, they are painful and develop into gross pustules.
She feels unwell, begins to get sick and basically gets worse and
worse.Along with this going on she has the mother-in-law-to-be from hell who
literally hates her guts and a friend who wants her fiancé and steals
her engagement ring.Casey mutates into a gross goo-dripping creature that lays little ball
eggs and makes a big slimy mess.There have been a lot of negative reviews about this movie but I think
that is possibly down to pre-movie hype that did not live up to
expectations. For me I found the movie a little bit slow after Casey began feeling
ill. I quite liked the characters and how they were all a bit off. I
was frustrated at how Casey didn't go to the doctors when the initial
symptoms began appearing as that would have been what any relatively
normal person would have done. If she had have gone to the doctors this
would have given the movie a bit more depth and could have added
another dynamic. As the movie progresses and Casey becomes more and more mutated I
thought it was really good, I like the concept of making a nest and how
she changed. I felt for her. There was tension and the makings of a
good thriller as her friends began to try to get in touch with her and
enter her apartment. Yes there are many flaws but it does still stand up as a pretty good
horror. It caught my imagination and kept me thinking about it for some
time after watching which is always a good indication of a film you
have enjoyed.
