10
Don Quixote with a guitar

No doubt: Llewyn Davis is a loser. First, his career as a folk singer 

is going badly: his duet partner committed suicide, his record isn't 

selling, he makes so little that he cannot afford his own apartment but 

has to move from friend to friend, or rather from acquaintance to 

acquaintance. Secondly, as far as human relationships are concerned, he 

is a total failure. His ex girlfriend despises him, one of her 

predecessors faked an abortion to have him out of her – and the mutual 

child's life – people who are sympathetic to him, get a rather rude 

treatment on a daily basis. After A Serious Man, the Coen brothers have 

again chosen to depict a man on the wrong side of luck. Only this time, 

one might say he deserves it.



Or maybe not, for he has one redeeming feature. The film opens with a 

long scene in which Davis (Oscar Isaac) performs a sad old folk song. 

The camera gently hovers around him, catches the hushed, intensely 

attentive atmosphere of the smoky basement club, while he sucks his 

audience – us – into the dark, sorrowful world he creates in his song, 

hinting at a depth he so often will not show in "real life". It is this 

contrast, the dialogue between the sadly funny tale of a modern Don 

Quixote and that other, older, tenderer story, the music tells. For as 

much as this is Llewyn's story, it also is that of the redeeming power 

of music. For even if Davis is the same at the end as the story comes 

full circle and returns to its opening, as he once again gets beaten up 

and is succeeded on stage by a young, cocky folk singer with a nasal 

voice who will soon change music – and not just folk music – forever, 

there is just the tiniest hint that this Llewyn Davis might have some 

sort of promise after all, maybe not as a successful singer, but as a 

human being.



Inside Llewyn Davis is inspired loosely by the story of Dave van Ronk, 

a star of the Greenwich Village folk scene around the time of Bob 

Dylan's arrival there in 1961. Dylan learned a lot from van Ronk and 

stole some of his most promising songs, but that is a story to be told 

another day. This one is about a man lost in a world that hasn't been 

waiting for him, who has a mission that is entirely his own. The 

lengths to which he goes to show the world he doesn't care are 

astounding. And yet he craves love. Oscar Isaac is a miracle: even in 

his most repelling state, in his most rejecting attitude, there is a 

flicker of sad longing in his face, his eyes, a face the Coens show us 

much of. It is one you need to dive into, closed to the casual observer 

but hiding so much pain and uncertainty and desire to live one 

sometimes thinks it must explode. The Coens' cinema is one of subtlety, 

of nuanced, of shades of grey between the black and white. In Isaac, 

they have found their perfect actor, heading a stellar cast including 

Carey Mulligan, John Goodman and Justin Timberlake.



As so often, the Coen brothers are masters at creating an atmosphere, a 

universe of its own, unique as well as absolutely consistent. It is a 

world of the night, in which grey shades reign, days are pale and dust 

is everywhere. Even in the open there is a sense of narrowness, of 

tight spaces, lightless basements that are cage and protective space in 

one. It is the tiny holes that provide the only rooms for creativity, 

for the soul to speak. And so it is that the dark world of the 

underground gradually regains some warmth and coziness, the dark 

becomes a zone of comfort, while everything else becomes cold and 

distant.



Having said all this, Inside Llewyn Davis is first and foremost a 

comedy in the Coenesque sense of the term. It is a Quixotic tale full 

of quirky characters at time bordering on the fairy-tale like – 

especially true for the sequence around Goodman's character, a 

trodden-down mixture of villain and clown that calls up associations of 

the expressionist nightmare world of their earlier film Barton Fink. 

The other foot of the film is firmly on the ground, in the existential 

struggle of a man the world won't welcome. But there is still that 

third element: music, that timeless realm of love and pain and 

suffering and hope. It is here the film is anchored, it is here this 

Don Quixote conquers his windmills, armed solely with his guitar. It is 

here it all comes together. Tragedy, comedy, fairy tale, social drama, 

held together by the softest of touches. Another Coen brothers 

masterpiece. What else could be expected?




