8
Rebecca Hall is a Revelation

With some exception, Hollywood pretty much makes two distinct kinds of
biopics. The first kind are the ones that almost seem obligatory – your
Gandhi's (1982), your Lincoln's (2012) and the upcoming Darkest Hour
(2017); movies about historical giants who did truly incredible things
with their lives, incredible things that should be projected (and even
embellished) on the silver screen for the world to see. Then there are
the ones about the others – your oddballs, your misfits – the
characters that history books often ignore but are nevertheless
important in the way our world is shaped.Professor Marston is certainly one of the latter folk. Outside of DC
comic devotees and the odd discredited crime scene investigator
swearing by the validity of the lie detector, William Moulton Marston
is not a name people know. But believe me when I say that after
watching this movie, you'll want to read up on him and his equally
fascinating partners Elizabeth Marston and Olive Byrne. For not only is
he the originator of Wonder Woman, the most famous female comic-book
hero ever, he's quietly the most fascinating academics to steer the
sexual proclivities of modern society since Albert Kinsey.He, Elizabeth and Olive I should say. The film starts with the three of
them bouncing around the psychology department of Tuft University
working on research and fine-tuning William's (Evans) latest invention.
Olive (Heathcote), the Marston's graduate assistant becomes enamored
with the two of them, binding the three in a love triangle that turns
into a healthy polyamorous relationship. It being the puritanical state
of Massachusetts in the 1920's however, the three couldn't be insulated
by the academic bubble for too long before The Marstons are quickly
forced out and move to New York City. From there, they hide their
double lives with Olive assuming the role of homemaker and "widow"
while William and Elizabeth (Hall) find work where they can as "the
couple".As the narrative slowly ebbs towards the inevitable formation of the
first Wonder Woman comic-book, the film occasionally diverts from its
primary story and uses a red-baiting comic-book committee as connective
tissue to William's complicated past. We've seen this kind of framing
before. In fact, apart from the decade's long love story involving
three people in a committed and loving relationship, we've seen all of
this before…which may be the point. Instead of treating the subject
matter as salacious or radically divergent, it treats it as another day
in dramatic romance-land. Even when the trio develops an interest in
the virtually criminalized BDSM subculture, there's a normalcy there
that could potentially bore the one couple in the movie theater looking
for their unicorn.What makes Professor Marston ultimately work is director/writer Angela
Robinson decision to make the tension largely external. It's never a
question of whether all their goings-on will work but if the world will
openly allow it. That concern is personified in Rebecca Hall's inner
struggle that has the duel burden of her trying to be a smart, capable,
20th century working girl while also being madly in love with two
people. One of whom is a woman.As the brash, irascible Elizabeth, actress Rebecca Hall is an absolute
revelation. She bursts onto the screen, all but announces she's smarter
than everyone else in the room and easily proves it with her wit and
pragmatism. While Heathcote displays the mirage of idyllic feminine
beauty, it is Elizabeth's radical feminism that makes the punchy title
worth the watch. Seriously though, if Hall doesn't get an Oscar nom by
years' end I may have to boycott (#hall&Oscars).Less successful is Luke Evans who, while certainly displaying the
outward charm of a 1920's lad-about-town just has a knack for putting
too fine a point on things. Every time we return to Connie Britton and
her committee of comic-book hating cronies, Evans lectures like he's
explaining particle physics to a freshman undergrad. Perhaps, given
Marston's private life, Robinson may have figured the only way out of
being questioned by a HUAC analog would be to be so soporific that
they'd just move on to Superman or something.All in all, Professor Marston and the Wonder Women may not be
reverential enough to induce comic-book fans to check it out. The film
spans decades ultimately treating the creation of Wonder Woman as an
afterthought. Yet for those looking for a decently paced, boiler-plate
great biopic it may just be the right ticket for you. Additionally
because it smuggles in a few liberalizing tidbits about love and modern
feminism (Luke Evans's goofy grin notwithstanding), Professor Marston
may even be worth a detour to a theater ballsy enough to play it.
