9
"Bad Deadpool… Good Deadpool Film!"

If anyone else could be cast to play Deadpool, he certainly doesn't
exist in this universe. After Ryan Reynolds's dramatic failure in the
Green Lantern film, he has returned to the comic book world. Reynolds
is absolutely phenomenal as the foul mouthed, and witty antihero. I
mean he is just superb! He completely owns the role, and gives a
fantastic performance. If Robert Downey Jr. IS Iron Man, then Ryan
Reynolds IS Deadpool. He is also such a liveable character, and by the
end of the film, I genuinely cared about Deadpool. I never thought I'd
say that. All of the performances are great. No one holds a candle to
Reynolds, but I will say not one person was miscast here.Deadpool is a unique film, and a huge gamble. Both Marvel and the
studios bringing us this film took a major risk. This is a beloved
character, and his world is very different than other Marvel films.
Right off the bat, this film is consciously self-aware. It knows its a
comic book film with comic book characters, and it actually exploits
it. Many times, Deadpool turns to the audience and tells us what we're
all thinking. It was so different, and it worked so very well. The
narrative itself is also different. It's very non-linear. The events of
the film don't play out in a normal straight narrative.One of the trademarks, nay, the trademark of Deadpool is his sense of
humour. This film is by far one of the most hysterical films I have
seen in some time. The writing is so perfect, so sharp, and so full of
witty banter, and thankfully, it all works. Not one joke, that I
remember, fell flat. The film had me laughing constantly; from the
opening credits, all the way to the after credits scene.As for the action, it's also very satisfying. Many action films today
are butchered by terrible camera work. For whatever reason, many modern
action films are using shaky cam. Instead of clear, steady shots, the
DP will go hand held, and shake the camera violently. The worst example
in recent memory of this is, Taken 3. Thankfully, there are films like
this, and others, that know exactly how to do a good action scene.
Director Tim Miller and cinematographer Ken Seng do a brilliant job
creating slick, good looking action. Not only is the action brutal, and
extremely bloody, it's just co clear and well handled. The fights are
really great here. I couldn't help but be reminded of Tarantino's, Kill
Bill films while watching Deadpool. They are incredibly similar in
their style of fight scenes.Sitting in the cinema, the inner critic in me struggled internally. I
kept thinking afterwards about the film. What were the flaws? I don't
often see a film without pointing out the negatives. Even films I
really like, or even love, have flaws. I'm certain that if one sits and
picks this apart, you will eventually find some flaws. Perhaps the
overall story is paper thin. Perhaps the villain wasn't very compelling
as character. Then again, Ajax was honestly serviceable. Ed Skrein gave
a great performance, and by the end, you really hate the bastard. He's
a generic, or a dick, British villain– and the film makes fun of that!"Deadpool" and Guardians of the Galaxy were both huge risks that
ultimately paid off, big time. As a film, it's nearly perfect. The film
does exactly what it needed to do, and more. It introduces Deadpool,
sets up his character, and gets you to like him–if you didn't already.
The non linear narrative was refreshing to see in a superhero film.
Everything about this film was different and unique. It's self
awareness and breaking of the fourth wall work well; really well. The
direction is great, Ryan Reynolds is phenomenal, and the script is
fantastic!
