1
Director's sophomore effort is definitely a slump

I was really looking forward to the director's follow up to "A Girl
Walks Home Alone At Night" but after seeing it I'm incredibly
disappointed. There are a lot of things that work here;the direction
and pacing of the film are spot on with some nice cinematography and
some interesting choices along the way. Likewise, most of the actor's
contribute some nice work here including the much lauded cameos by Jim
Carey and Giovanni Ribissi and the high profile appearances of Jason
Momoa and Keannu Reeves. (None of whom did this film because they
"needed a paycheck" by the way but was a chance to work with the
Sundance Institute and/or an up and coming director they wanted to
support.) Carey was really surprising, it took me a few minutes before
I even realized it was him and Momoa shows he's got real acting chops
but it was Keannu Reeves who really stole the show for me. He goes
against type and really brings the creepy to his role of a "Jim Jones"
type cult leader. It would be interesting to see him play an out and
out villain in a future role. As for Suki Waterhouse, I honestly have
no idea whether she can act or not because the script is so bad,
littered with wooden dialogue and bad choices throughout, that it's
impossible to tell. The characters consistently make decisions or take
actions that make absolutely no sense whatsoever. We are not talking
your typical Hollywood tropes either (Going down to the basement alone,
saying "I'll be right back," etc...you know the drill)NO, we are
talking actions and decisions that are so wrong they are insulting to
the viewer. Example, after narrowly escaping from a group of cannibals
and finding safety in a small town, our hero, sans two limbs mind you,
immediately wanders BACK OUT into the desert right back towards the
cannibal community.She then, over the course of the rest of the movie,
proceeds to fall for the head cannibal. A man who participated in a
barbecue involving her arm and leg!! I kid you not. I actually found
this offensive. And I'm not offended easily. I am baffled as to how the
director even considered this line of action for the character or even
what the point was. I'm totally mystified as to how anyone could have
thought this was a good idea. I found myself very irritated with Ms.
Waterhouse's character, to the point that I yelled at the screen
several times during the film, so annoyed was I at the character's
stupid decisions and at the creators themselves for letting this
character be such an idiot. It was like a roll back to before Buffy,
when women in horror or sci-fi were nothing but mindless eye candy.
You'd think Ellen Ripley had never happened. And this during the week
"Wonder Woman" came out. So, there you go. I hate to be so harsh but I
have no idea what Ms. Amirpour was going for here and in the future
suggest she stick to directing, for which she is quite capable. Just do
us all a favor and leave the screenplay to someone else.
