1
Ignorance Level 99.

So I browsed some IMDb user reviews before watching this movie and
amazed by a quantity of 1-star ratings, I thought, come on its just a
TMNT movie, it cant be that bad, right? But it turns out that its even
worse than 1 star...I don't know even where to start. I like the turtles design, they look
pretty cool unlike those old nickelodeon cartoonish slug-turtles. Well,
and thats about it.Now to the bad things.The story is just ridiculous. April saves turtles and Splinter from a
burning lab only to bring them to the culvert and leave there on their
own..!? Bullshit.Splinter is just a plain mutated rat, not Hamato Yoshi or even his pet.
The question is - how the hell he knows ninjutsu? The answer is simple
according to the writers - he found some old ninjutsu related books
down in the sewers and mastered them to perfection in no time. Oh, he
also taught it to 4 mutated turtles and they also mastered it in like
10 years. Sounds "great".Turtles seem to have super strength, destroying cars, brick walls and
other huge stuff with little effort. They are supposed to be NINJAS not
freaking HULKS, although Raphael looks almost exactly like Hulk from
Marvel Comics... They also seems to be somehow totally bulletproof.Shredder... The pain. I would fire and then kill a person who's
responsible for his costume. It looks even worse than some Chinese
plastic figures from the 90's. Hell, even super Shredder from The
Secret of the Ooze looks better than this trash can with a swiss
knifes. And not to mention he's a 2-liner, he just said "This city will
be ours" and "Tonight I dine on turtle soup", thats surely in top 10
worse developed villains of all time.Karai. I doubt I even heard her name once, but I assume this is Karai
portrayed by Minae Noji. I think she only got slammed in the wall once
during whole movie. Yes, that was her role.Eric Sacks. WHO THE HELL IS THIS!? Why they invented such a boring and
pointless character? What is he doing in this movie? Working for
Shredder to get money? He's living the dream in the huge villa, I
suppose he already has "some" money, no? Like there are no other
characters from TMNT universe which could participate in the movie
instead.The Foot Clan. Is a joke. Just a masked mercenaries with firearms
shooting left and right, nothing more to add.Action is there yes, but again, coated in such ignorance - any
enjoyment just fades away after you learning a few things about this
movie, action scenes becoming pointless to watch.Whether you are a TMNT fan or just a person who want to see a
superhero/action movie - stay away, this is clearly not what you are
looking for. This is CGI pop-flick completely ignorant to the roots of
TMNT and common sense in general.1/10.
