10
Two very different men try to fulfill one another.

Unquestionably P.T. Anderson's best film so far. I've always liked his
work, but early on I had no sense he would achieve heights such as
this. Let me say this, Anderson, ALONE, I think amongst relatively
big-budget American filmmakers, allows his imagery to play by its own
rules. EVERY other studio filmmaker- from Scorsese to Tarantino, to
Jarmusch, plays by some kind of pre-established rules-even if they are
the pre-established rules of "art cinema" or "second cinema". Anderson,
like Weerasthakul or Bela Tarr, speaks his own tongue. I thought There
Will Be Blood was pretty great, but this is Truly Great- a singularly
challenging work of art. Similarly, I would compare Daniel Day-Lewis's
work in Blood with Phoenix's work here. The former was impressive,
creative, witty. The latter is brave, adventuresome, and merciless.
More than any of the "canonical" "method" performances of cinema, I
think Phoenix reaches into places of himself, of all of us, that's very
unearthing demands new philosophical questions. Here's my take, for
what it's worth, of the "meaning" of the film. It's a comparison of two
drastically contradictory and complementary personalities. One wants to
live without any Master by becoming a Master himself. The other wants a
master to give some kind of shape to his life. L. Ron Hubbard- inspired
guru Lancaster Dodd (played by Phillip Seymour Hoffman in a performance
that's beautiful but not ground-breaking) is a con-man, but as I read
him, he's not exactly a charlatan. He truly wants to believe the
(self-serving) things he's saying, and he needs other people to believe
them too. He's very successful at (least the latter half of) this. But
this does not make him free. Instead, it turns him into a kind of King
and, as we know from the example of Louis XVI, any sovereign is
ultimately a privileged prisoner of his/her subjects. They are exempt
from the laws of the land, of life, exactly in so far as others believe
they are. Dodd's "freedom" from mastery is wholly dependent on the
worship of the other, an other outstandingly represented by Phoenix's
Freddie Quell, a potentially unbreakable "scoundrel" who Dodd both
fears and admires as such. Quell is a completely, irredeemably, broken
individual, whose only surviving qualities are sheer animal instinct-
screw, eat, and drink. He yearns to be put back together, to be
mastered by some other, to serve some sovereign and thus be welcomed
back into civilization. But he's too far gone, or too savage, for that
to work. He can't be mastered, even by any coherent sense of self. Dodd
seeks the solitude of the sublime but is ultimately made completely
dependent on the Other, while Quell, very unwillingly, achieves the
freedom, and loneliness, of God.
