7
Clear family relationship traveling through a changing earth

"Personally I'm not a fan of the Ice Age movies and Dreamworks trying
their version of prehistoric times with the Crood family that are both
funny as well as creating some sweet family moments between all the
characters" Prehistoric history has never really been told well for me (I do not
care for the Ice Age movies no matter how many of them there are). The
Croods is about the cavemen family of the same name which include Grug
(Nicholas Cage), Eep (Emma Stone), Ugga (Catherine Keener), Gran
(Cloris Leachman) and Thunk (Clark Duke). The family meet Guy (Ryan
Reynolds) a modern man who try's to help them get through life as they
make their way to safety. The family and Guy must change and adapt
throughout.The best part of the film was the animation of areas the family visited
from the beginning desert seeming area to the bright and colourful new
world that seemed like an animated version of Pandora from the flying
animals to the big ones with teeth but most of the animals in this film
where more cute and adorable versions. The family dynamic was nice
because most of the characters were different from Eep the dreamer to
the old funny grandmother which made for a relateable family even if
they were in times before modern humans. The film never felt too long
but some weaknesses to the film where repetitiveness of scenes even
though some great one liners went well. The character relationship
between Eep and Grug was very developed but characters such as Ugga and
Thunk felt undeveloped and somehow wasted.Nicholas Cage has become an non present actor for me and it was fun to
hear him play Grug because he was playing the character of himself but
not to the big extent which was enjoyable to watch. Emma Stone played
the disobeying daughter Eep and she was also enjoyable in the film and
I did like how the two actors handled the father/daughter relationship
making it a part of the film to care about. Ryan Reynolds is also an
actor I do not care for but like Cage in the film he was also nice
making some good funny moments which mostly seemed to come from the
animation. Other actors who where funny in the film include Leachman
and Duke.An enjoyable film that was funny as well as memorable for it's sweet
relationship moments. With good voice-over work and a nice script the
film was more then a film for young children.MOVIE GRADE: B- (MVP: Emma Stone)
