1
What the heck did I just see?????????

First of all there is NOTHING I repeat NOTHING that warrants the cost
of a 3D ticket.Second, this movie is boring and overly predictable.Third, there is nothing in this movie that makes you want to care that
suddenly this "mission specialist" played by Bullock is stuck up in
space alone.Fourth, where points could have been made to make you want to care
about anyone in the movie they don't bother. Clooney's character keeps
telling "Mission Control" stories for the most part that they've heard
about his life. We haven't heard them and you never do. His character
is only concerned about getting a record for the longest un-tethered
space walk.Fifth, Bullocks character acts like a buffoon. She "claims" to only
have had 6 months of training. Based on what she says she would have
been disqualified due to her questionable mental state after (years
before)her daughter dies from some play ground accident at her day
care. Now I like Sandra Bullock, but this performance is not worthy of
an Oscar at all.Sixth, She "magically" makes(this is because she spent over 5 minutes
breathing in pure carbon monoxide, if this had been real she'd be dead)
it to the Russian Soius Space capsule. She then using pictures in books
can magically use buttons in Russian capsule to make it work, though
claimed she trained on the simulator for them, she still needs the
books to operate these things. She then "magically" get an empty fueled
Soius capsule over to the Chinese station. Which is identical to the
Soviet but in Chinese instead (this is probably fact as China bought
their space station tech from Russia)and again using picture books she
gets the thing to work.Seventh, Drama and suspense, WHERE, you are told that the satellite
debris will be around ever 90 minutes, the astronauts set their timers
for the count down so again that's NEVER a surprise not only that, it's
camera shot debris coming, look at watch. NO suspense.Eighth, The ending, Specialist Ryan escapes in the Chinese capsule and
gets back to earth, crashes in to the water and you are left with her
walking on the beach. That's it you just wasted 100 minutes for this
pointless that could be done in 30 minutes.NOT worth your time or money.
