7
Proof that you can't have too much of Tom Hardy

It is true that glasses and change of hairdo can actually produce a
different personality. This movie is mostly dedicated to Tom Hardy
delivering his excellent, albeit slightly and funnily schizophrenic,
acting prowess. As far as biopic goes, other films such as Black Mass
delivers a more in depth-look of the mafia life style, but Legend opts
for a direct personal view of the brothers and takes full advantage of
the lead actor.Tom Hardy plays as both Ron and Reggie Kray, performed with a tweak of
facial expression and mild change on make-up. Reggie is the more
levelheaded one while Ron can be described as batcrap insane. They are
both capable of violence and living a shared gangster life. The events
are told by narration from Frances (Emily Browning), Reggie's love
interest and a silent witness to the horrible dealings.The movie's strongest point is undoubtedly the lead, it is not often
that this "one actor two roles" is used in cinema recently. Tom Hardy
delivers everything expected from him, from the subtle or strong
expression, change of speech and mannerism to intricate body language
of different characters. Viewers know the twin scene is done by effect,
yet they often look like two different persons interacting with each
other.It dabbles in less criminal activities and more in private life,
evident by using Frances a key point for developments even though she
is mostly there as spectator, especially when mafia dealings are
concerned. Emily Browning is a good addition, she handles her own well,
but it's not the level of outlandish on-screen presence like the Krays.While there is a definite involvement of crime thriller aspect, it
doesn't portray the shady indulgent in its entirety. It's not the
intricate inside view like that of American Hustle. There are few
violent scenes, although the movie is not a noir gritty musing and some
of the events could be done more thoroughly.Tom Hardy has done some interesting roles, but none arguably had this
level of complexity. Legend further cemented his acting signature on
the silver screen, it may not be an in-depth take of criminal
enterprise, but he alone, or two of him, is enough to carry the movie.
