6
Forgettable Christmas Fun w/ Seth Rogen & Friends

Who doesn't love Christmas movies? Me. I don't, with the exception of
NATIONAL LAMPOON'S Christmas VACATION and A VERY HAROLD & KUMAR
Christmas. Most Christmas movies are nauseatingly saccharine or
insultingly inane. Probably because the target audience is generally
kids or families. But why should they have the Christmas movie racket
cornered? I want more holiday cheer for people like me: cynical,
reveling in the absurd, and occasionally inebriated. Enter THE NIGHT
BEFORE, from director Jonathan Levine. It's the tale of three friends:
Ethan (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), Isaac (Seth Rogen), and Chris (Anthony
Mackie) and their annual tradition of getting together on Christmas Eve
for a night of drunken debauchery and a celebration of their
long-lasting friendship. This particular year, though, the tradition
has reached a breaking point. Isaac is getting ready to start a family
and Chris's football career has launched him to celebrity status.
Ethan, whose life has stagnated, is the only one keen on continuing
their Christmas Eve antics and a lucky break leads him to "acquire"
tickets to an infamous underground Christmas party.the party to end
all partiesthe Nutcracker Ball. The trio gets together, don their
Christmas sweaters, and set out for one last insane night in New York
City where everything that can go wrong will go wrong. Meanwhile, the
three of them are each confronted by a mystical marijuana dealer and
forced to confront their past, present, or future (because Christmas).
THE NIGHT BEFORE, while entertaining, doesn't stand out and probably
won't be remembered long.Jonathan Levine is the director behind the 2011 comedy/drama 50/50 in
which Seth Rogen helps best friend Joseph Gordon-Levitt cope with a
cancer diagnosis. It's an occasional tear-jerker with bouts of humor in
the same vein as Rogen's other work, though generally not as crude. It
was good. Not great, but good. The same can be said for THE NIGHT
BEFORE. The most effective element that I remember from 50/50 was the
dramatic moments. I can remember some of the more heart-wrenching
moments but, looking back, I couldn't tell you one particular moment
that had me laughing. THE NIGHT BEFORE is sort of the opposite. It's
got those heartfelt moments. The character of Ethan is pretty relatable
and his struggles are familiar. His parents died during the holidays
(which set off the guys' current tradition when Isaac and Chris came to
the rescue as a surrogate), he's single (his last relationship, which
he continues to dwell on, fell apart when he couldn't bring himself to
meet his girlfriend's parents), and he's aimless. He doesn't have a
career his more successful friends; Isaac is a moderately successful
lawyer and Chris is a football player with the NFL. When we're
introduced to him, he's working a crappy gig as a server dressed as a
Christmas elf for a wealthy party. All he has left are his friends and
this tradition, and they're ready to move on. In related subplots, his
friends are dealing with their own crises. Isaac is panicking at the
idea of being a father and Chris is coming to grips with the fact that
his sudden success in the NFL is a lie (i.e. steroids). Their stories
are told well but nothing is particularly engaging about any of it. I
guarantee, a year or so down the line, I won't remember any of these
holiday-worthy heartfelt stories. I'll just remember Seth Rogen on a
crap-load of drugs.It's just one of a handful of running gags throughout the movie but
it's probably the most memorable. Isaac's wife (played by Jillian Bell)
is proud of how well he's handled his impending fatherhood and, as a
Christmas gift, gives him a small box containing, well, every drug.
Weed, ecstasy, psilocybin mushrooms, etc. He's meant to share it with
the group but ends up consuming the entire box himself over the course
of the night and has an admittedly hilarious drug-fueled spirit quest.
My favorite scene in the movie is probably when he's whacked out on
mushrooms and accidentally finds himself in church for midnight mass
with his sister and her family members. Another highlight is Michael
Shannon's role as the trio's drug dealer, Mr. Green. I wasn't expecting
Shannon and I love that he's capable of having stupid fun in the
occasional comedy (see also: the second ANCHORMAN movie) as much as he
is delivering powerhouse performances. Shannon's inclusion and Rogen's
drug-frenzy are about the only things that stand out in this otherwise
amusing but totally forgettable movie. THE NIGHT BEFORE has all the
elements in place for the sort of Christmas comedy I'm looking for but
so much of it goes to waste. I can watch it and enjoy it in the moment,
but there's nothing special here that'll keep me coming back every
holiday season for some yuletide laughs. If you've not seen it and are
wondering if it's worth your time, I'd say sure. It's collected a great
comedy cast and there are some solid moments in there. Something's
bound to get a chuckle from you.
