9
Insanity doesn't even begin to describe it!

I'm not gonna lie! I love this franchise. Aside from the third movie, I
enjoy each one of them. You can't ask for much more when it comes to
action movies. This series has always been a box office attraction, but
the real story is Paul Walker's tragic death. I remember being really
saddened when I read about his untimely death. He had come such a long
way as an actor. He was getting better and better, and the sky was the
limit for him. I was so pumped to go see this movie! My expectations
were pretty high. I'm happy to say that it not only met my
expectations, but transcended them as well. If you're looking for a
great story, look elsewhere! This movie isn't about that. It has plenty
of emotion and a decent enough story for this type of thing, but this
puppy is all about action. I thought after the 6th one, they had
nowhere to go after it. What else could they possibly do, how could
they top themselves? Well, they did it! In convincing fashion. This is
like 5 action movies in one. If you think you've seen it all, you
haven't! There are action scenes in this movie that I didn't think were
possible. They are incredibly unbelievable and WAY OTT, but undeniably
exhilarating. I thought some of the situations they got out of in the
5th and 6th movies were ridiculous, this one takes the cake. It rarely
gives you a chance to breathe! Just when you settle down, along comes
another action scene to amaze you. As an adrenaline junkie, I loved
every second of it. I'm not gonna list all of them, but I'll mention a
couple. One involves Brian and a huge truck at the edge of a cliff.
It's completely implausible, but I was on the edge of my seat! Another
involves Dom and his destruction of vehicles. I won't spoil them, but
they are memorable. The acting is solid! Vin won't ever be known as a
great actor, but he has a lot of presence and charisma. He is always
reliable in these movies. Paul Walker is really good as Brian. I was
really happy with the tribute they did for him at the end. It was very
moving and touching. The Rock (Dwayne Johnson) Is a hoot as Hobbs. It
sucks that he didn't have as much screen time, but his crazy antics
were a blast to watch! Great lines as well. Michelle Rodriguez isn't
the Letty we know. She's damaged and vulnerable. I'm so used to seeing
Michelle playing bad-ass roles, so it was cool. Jason Statham is a fun
villain. You know what to expect when it comes from him. Kicking ass
and taking names. Jordana Brewster doesn't have much to do, but she was
good. As a huge Kurt Russell fan, it was a treat to see him again. He
was hilarious and a lot of fun to watch. Ludicrous and Tyrese Gibson do
well in their roles. Special mention to Tony Jaa and Ronda Rousey! Tony
Jaa actually gets a chance to showcase his phenomenal skill set. His
fight scenes with Paul Walker will get your adrenaline going. I hate sitting in a theater for over two hours, but it was completely
worth it. You don't have time to get fidgety in your seat. There is so
much going on that you'll be glued to the screen. I'm not sure if they
should do an 8th movie or not. If they make one, I'll be more than
happy to see it! But I think this was the perfect ending to this
franchise. Whether it's the end or not, thank you for some great
entertainment. 9/10
