9
Extremely violent, gory but wildly exhilarating from beginning to end

Director Jeremy Saulnier exercises high pressure suspense and
astonishing realism in this white-knuckle thriller following his
surprising success with the ultra-violent 'Blue Ruins'. Though it
doesn't fall deep in the category of originality or even groundbreaking
in any sense, the intriguing fashion in which Saulnier executes this
film and the immersive cinematography by Sean Porter used to capture
the harrowing intensity and gloomy visuals result in a highly effective
slasher treat; and even labeling the results effective feels like an
understatement. While the shocking level of bloody violence and gore
more than not make this tough sit-through, especially for the weak
stomach; Saulnier pervades a true sense of realism in a way in which
the film never feels exploitative, but wildly authentic. So this film
follows a punk rock band consisting of twenty-something year olds
including lead singer Tiger (played by Callum Turner), guitarist Sam
(played by Alia Shawkat), bassist Pat (played by Anton Yelchin), and
drummer Reece (played by Joe Cole). When the band is offered a gig by a
radio host named Tad, they find themselves performing at nowhere other
than an old bar run by neo-Nazi skinheads. After a successful
performance, the band and their friend Amber (played by Imogen Poots)
rushes out to their green room where they witness a murder by the hands
of a sadistic skinhead. In fear of being held responsible for the
murders, skinhead leader Darcy Banker (played by Patrick Stewart)
arrives an orders his gangs to eliminate the witnesses, leading the
band to a bloody fight for survival. Jeremy Saulnier grants this intensely violent thriller with a gift to
not only leave viewers shocked and squirming in their seats, but
present an atmosphere so visceral to the point of giving viewers the
feeling of not watching a gruesome slasher, but a real-life event
unfolding on camera; and the scariest aspect of this film how brutally
realistic it turns out on screen. Saulnier does such an amazing job on
capturing the brutal intensity of each moment as the characters
desperately battle their way through a violent bloodbath against a gang
of white supremacists that threaten their young lives, and the camera
work done by Sean Porter makes for great use to capture these dreadful
moments. At various moments, the film intensifies to the point where
you may constantly remind have to yourself you are not trapped inside
the bar with the characters. While Saulnier's execution and Sean
Porter's cinematography do justice, they only make up the half of the
equation. The latter half is successfully achieved by Saulnier's
screenplay. Instead of relying on the usual slasher horror stereotypes
like the jock, the pot smoker, or the hot chick, Saulnier populated the
film with characters that feel very believable and the dialogue these
characters deliver more often than not feels typical to real-life
college kids, thus adding to the insane realism. While the performances
the actors are decent, the biggest stand out by far is Patrick Stewart,
suiting the role of the main antagonist. Stewart gives a truly haunting
performance as what is a major departure from his usual typecast.
Though his character is limited to do nothing but giving orders, the
portrayal Stewart lands as this character truly hits hard.Green Room is an exhilarating slasher-horror thriller with a constant
sense of fright and thrills, making it one of the most spine-chilling
horror films to be released in recent years. Though the extreme violent
and realistic depiction of gore can may make this one a difficult
sit-through, it is a must-see for all horror fans.
