6
Fifth sequel  with nonstop action ,  violent combats and  spectacular images by computer generator

The Umbrella Corporation's deadly T-virus continues to ravage the
Earth, transforming the global population into legions of the flesh
eating Undead. The human race's last and only hope, Alice (Milla
Jovovich is the only actor to appear in all five films) , awakens in
the heart of Umbrella's most clandestine operations facility and
unveils more of her mysterious past as she delves further into the
complex . Again Alice fights alongside a resistance movement (Boris
Kodjoe, Johann Urb , Kevin Durand , Robin Kasyanov) in the continuing
battle against the Umbrella Corporation and the undead . Meanwhile ,
Alice rescues her daughter Becky (Aryana Engineer , this role was not
originally to be hearing-impaired, but after an outstanding audition,
the role was given to Engineer) from starving zombies . Alice along
with the valiant group rush to The Hive, where The Red Queen plots
total destruction over the human race .Fifth spectacular , action-packed and thrilling installment of the
¨Resident Evil series¨ , adapted from the video games characters
produced by Hiroyuki Kobayashi . Yet another noisy film rendered from a
video game which never gets as eerie as a Zombie picture should .
Unstopped-action gore-feast that provides for high-octane escapist
entertainment with some eye-catching visuals and pulsing soundtrack by
Tomandandy . This exciting picture contains thrills , chills ,
action-filled with fierce combats and lots of gore and guts . The
horror and action moments are fast moving and compactly realized ,
being the first movie of the series not to feature undead dogs . This
sequel takes more , more approach , more fights , more blood and gore .
The creepy images of wide range from the genuinely fantastic to the
bizarre along with scary and amazing frames . It's predictable but we
have seen the previous chapters , as there are 3 scenes from ¨Resident
Evil : Afterlife¨ that were reused in this movie , but also its
predictability is redeemed in part by the charismatic acting from the
action-women , as Milla Jovovich , Michelle Rodriguez , Sienna Guillory
and Bingbing Li . The flesh-eating mutants appearance deliver the goods
, plenty of screams , shocks and tension . The make-up assistants
create a truly horrible zombie cannibals and state-of-art FX won the
Canadian Screen Award for Achievement in Visual Effects . Horrifying
and astonishing images about apocalyptic events with destroyed cities,
such as the fantastic scenarios in Washington totally inhabited by
flesh-munchies creatures and White House surrounded by millions of
zombies . Cool , luminous cinematography using Steadicam by Glen
MacPherson and haunting , pulsing Techno-musical score by Tomandandy ;
during the car chase with the Zombie Russian army the music playing is
called 'Phantom Chase' , this references music from the original Bio
Hazard video game. The motion picture was professionally directed with
startling visual style , though with no originality , by Paul W
Anderson.The complete saga is formed by the following films : ¨Resident evil¨ by
Paul W Anderson with Milla , Eric Mabius , Michelle Rodriguez , James
Purefoy , Colin Salmon ; this is the best , dealing with a group of
containment specialists are sent in and have to fight employees who
have been contaminated , while A.I. computer instigates a series of
defensive measures to contain the virus . It's followed by ¨Resident
evil II : Apocalypse¨ by Alexander Witt with Jared Harris , Iain Glen ,
Oded Fehr , Sienna Guillory . Furthermore , ¨Resident evil III¨ by
Russell Mulcahy with Ali Larter, Ashanti , Mike Epps , Oded Fehr and of
course Milla Jovovich and ¨Resident Evil : Afterlife¨ by Paul W
Anderson with usual actors along with Kim Coates , Sergio Peris
Mencheta , Boris Kodjoe and Wentworth Miller .
