8
Get Ready To Hear "Argo for Best Picture"

No movie being showcased by this year's Toronto International Film 

Festival caught our interest as much as Ben Affleck's directorial 

follow up to The Town. Argo, based on a true story and starring 

Affleck, Bryan Cranston, John Goodman and Adam Arkin, tells the 

astonishingly true story of how a CIA exfiltration specialist attempts 

to free six Americans who have taken shelter in the home of the 

Canadian Ambassador during the Iranian hostage crisis.



The story opens on November 4, 1979 when Islamist militants took 

control of the U.S. Embassy in Iran. 52 Americans were taken hostage 

and held for 444 days until their eventual release. But six American's 

were able to sneak out of the Embassy and find refuge unbeknownst to 

the Iranian rebels. The CIA, lead by agent Tony Mendez (Ben Affleck) 

hatched a plan to rescue the house entrapped Americans by posing as 

producers of a fictional science fiction film. The idea was that Mendez 

would land in Iran and then convince the six Americans to assume roles 

as screenwriters, directors and co-producers of the film and they would 

all fly out of the country together once location scouting was complete 

in 48 hours.



In an effort to have the mission legitimized, Mendez recruited 

Hollywood producer Lester Siegel and Special Effects man John Chambers 

to green-light the script and give the entire project credibility.



If the entire notion of the plan sounds like something that only 

Hollywood could come up with – well, you're half right. But Affleck 

sticks to the facts of the true events and ravels a bite-your-nails 

type thriller that is guaranteed to be rewarded with year-end 

nominations for Best Picture, Best Director and most certainly Best 

Supporting Actor for Alan Arkin.



Every note, every frame of Argo looks authentic. Affleck, who received 

incredible support for his last directorial effort, The Town, ups the 

ante and films Argo with the confidence of a maestro at the top of his 

game.



The movie shifts between locations of Iran, Hollywood and both the CIA 

Headquarters and even the White House in this brilliantly crafted 

adventure. Each scene and character oozes with atmosphere and purpose 

and Affleck confidently and flawlessly directs himself as the expected 

hero of the film – a man who risks his own life and career for the 

lives of six strangers.



Towards the concluding chapters of the film, audiences are sure to be 

on the edge of their seats – even if they are aware of the historically 

recorded outcome (shades of Apollo 13). Once the rescue attempt his its 

apex, the audience at the Toronto screening erupted in an applause 

never before experienced by this reviewer in his thousands of 

theatrical screenings. That reaction is a testament to Affleck's 

direction that grabbed audiences by the emotional drawstrings keeping 

us involved in our character's fates and caring for their safe return.



Argo is not only an important piece of history that many of us were 

completely oblivious – but it is also one of the better films of this 

or the past few years.




