1
In Space no one can hear you – "ask for your money back!"

In Space no one can hear you – "ask for your money back!"Disclaimer: Spoiler Alert - its horrible.I just left the movie theatre angry. I cant think of a time that's ever
happened to me. Yes I may know more than the average Joe regarding manned spaceflight,
after 30 years of writing about it. That doesn't mean the movie makers
have to insult movie goers with the lack of any sense of reality. No
wonder people don't think man landed on the moon.From start to finish there were blatant factual errors in everything
from the laws of Physics, Engineering and Orbital Mechanics to the
unidentifiable views of the earth. I recognized two views of the earth,
one of Florida and Cuba, the other the Nile in Egypt. It seems the
producers decided to mess with those as well, good luck recognizing
them.I stopped counting errors after 50, by that point I was considering
leaving the theatre, a few others managed to escape. I know at least one NASA Astronaut bragged about making a contribution
to the film as a technical adviser. I wont name her because its
embarrassing enough for her to know she did that. I always wonder why
movie makers use Astronauts as tech advisors when they have no
intention of actually using their contributions.Im not going to quote any of the script, why waste your time. It's a
ranting monologue from an Astronaut with all of six months training at
NASA to conduct an EVA at Hubble and who addresses her crew mates by
their formal rank and last name only. Oh and magically during her six
month training to fly on the Shuttle she managed to get a little Soyuz
pilot training under her belt, very fortunate for her.Finally, the movie is poorly written, almost ad-libbed, poorly
researched, with a story line that has no connection to reality. I
wouldn't watch this a second time if I was paid to. At the end I was
expecting to see a 2,000 year old arm from the Statue of Liberty on a
beach, seriously. For a more representative vision of Spaceflight you may choose to watch
the Simpsons episode where Homer and an inanimate carbon rod, save the
Space Shuttle.I highly do not recommend this movie unless you download it for free
off Pirate Bay or get someone else to pay for you.FYI – Im not a movie reviewer and I typed this out in five minutes,
because I want my money back.
