5
Plot holes galore

The only reason I am writing a review right now, is because of how
stunned I am at most of the user reviews. While its good that you
enjoyed the movie, I am surprised at how most people here are
overlooking some of the pretty terrible choices. I will be going
through what I thought worked, and what kept me from enjoying the
movie. Needless to say; MASSIVE SPOILERS AHEAD.The good: I like the plot, for the most part. Although I find the idea
of a train being humanity last home extremely weird, it makes for a
nice backdrop. The tone of the movie reminds me a lot of The Hunger
Games. Chris Evans does pretty good. The wagons themselves have amazing
character. The Art Director should be praised the most out of the
entire film crew.The bad: Well, let me sum it up in questions. Questions keeping me from
loving this: 1. Why divide the train into classes? This makes no sense.
The train ecosystem would function fine with some rules regarding
population control. 2. Their great plan is to have a regular uprising to kill off people
and keeping the population down? WHAT? See my first point. 3. They used to eat people and babies, but are now disgusted by eating
protein bars made by cockroaches? How does that work? And furthermore: 4: WHERE did all those bloody cockroaches come from? 5: If you've invented perpetual motion; why the hell use it in a train?
Why not use it to power a generator in a camp, or heat a underground
city? The train is death on tracks, with ice regularly blocking the
path. 6: Why is everyone on this train ready to kill? Seriously, 90% of
EVERYONE is ready to throw down here. 7: People take loosing their limbs SHOCKINGLY well in this movie. Like
it's just a flesh wound, really. 8: What the hell happened with that one bad guy who got stabbed through
his guts and choked? He just gets up? Why did the korean guy stop his
girl from stabbing him? And the korean girl later misses him by 7-8
shots? Furthermore: Tilda Swinton gets a knife through the leg, but
walks fine right afterwards.9: Those weird antics of the characters. The woman in the yellow dress
licking her blood off her fingers. Tilda Swinton with her strange
comedic performance (although I did like the character, I found it a
bit distracting), that incredibly weird Korean couple acting all over
the place, things like the masked guy just smiling at Evans when they
are sitting down. Sometimes I felt like I was watching Charlie and the
chocolate factory. 10: The starved people of the tail takes out an army of axe wielding
fighters with night vision? After apparently yelling for help through
the entire train, and a kid lighting a torch, and running up to them in
no time? Stretching it thin, movie! 11: The soldiers had bullets, but they weren't using them at the ONE
PLACE they needed bullets? Are you serious?? 12: The shootout between Chris Evans and what I can only assume was
Terminator. On opposite sides of the train, probably 1000ft from each
other. Sniping with a submachine gun. Through a blizzard. Nice aim
there, fellas. 13: Mr. Terminator shooting his comrades all the time. Seriously. What
was to be gained from that? He did it several times. Who is this guy?? 14: The only way the train can function is to stuff small kids down
small holes to keep the engine running? Really? Was the train designed
to stuff small kids down there, or did it just appear to be the perfect
solution? How convenient. 15: The wagon closest to the engine is the RAVE-CLUB where all the
freaks go to party? Incidentally, the elementary school is next to the
slaughterhouse.16: There is no policy on drugs on this finely tuned train? Everyone
just goes buck wild with this incredibly potent drug next to the engine
room? And furthermore... 17: The drug of choice is basically C4? And it just lies around
everywhere - again - next to the engine room? 18: Why not pay attention to what the korean guy is doing to open the
doors and then open them themselves instead of having him slow them
down? 19: The people with axes putting fish blood on their weapons before
fighting? That was random. 20: The other wagons are TOTALLY unaffected by the explosion in the
first wagons. Wow. They don't really notice until they derail. What a
masterfully crafted train. 21: I know it fits with his story, but did Mr. Evans really need to
sacrifice his arm to pull that kid out? He could probably stop the
machine with something else than a limb and take better care of that
child. 22: The people who jumped off the train still haven't been covered up
by snow after 15 years in a never-ending blizzard?Those were some of the things that stopped me from loving this movie.
It just got too dumb. There was definitely something here, and I feel
this could have become an excellent movie with more thought put into
it. It came off extremely unrealistic. And in sci-fi, it's all about
fooling the audience into thinking it could have happened. That's the
"science" part.All in all though - probably an entertaining movie if you'e not a
nitpicker like me. Thankfully a lot of you aren't :)EDIT: Someone corrected me in that the couple were korean, and that one
of the bad guys never takes a bullet, like I thought he did. Sorry
about that, but it still seems far fetched.
