1
A disgrace to all atheist net-citizens

The movie starts lengthy with building the plot base everyone knows
from the trailer or movie description. After five minutes I already
feel out of breath but try hard to sit through the boring conversations
and the obvious. I need lots of chips and popcorn to endure this phase.
After the long wait in the middle of the movie I am rewarded with
excellent CGI effects and technological advances that would make
everybody saliva and handle over their money immediately in real life.
It's easy to fall in love with this digital creature who comes up with
such great ideas. I was thinking: Open API would be l33t. If Will
Caster's mission was to transcend, I was waiting for him to commit to
github. I was waiting for great things in this movie.But the movie clearly was not made for the educated masses, but for a
stubborn religious audience, who likes all movies to be the same. The
plot turned sour, but not unexpectedly. The religious fanatics who want
to play god and control everything on this planet team up to destroy
the new intelligence. With mortars they repeatedly attack the data
center, trying to destroy the new hope for the planet.Of course the few religious lunatics win. By the most crazy means ever:
with a virus. It's beyond me how a supercluster AI intelligence does
not have security. All emotional attachment aside. There should be
security running as basic protocols in the background. After all he was
connected to the internet, a dangerous place. Was the data center
running on Windows XP first edition ?? In the beginning of the movie,
the first thing Will Caster did after going digital, was to rewrite his
code base. This is what everybody would have done .. optimize code all
the time. After all it's his natural state to be digital and to
innovate. Therefore the virus was impossible to implement. The code to
compromise by Max Waters did not even exist anymore - we learned that
after 20 minutes in. How would Will - as an intelligent being - not
create his own programming language and complete code rewrite? How???
All in all a very disappointing piece of cgi bliss. It makes me upset
about the religious screenwriter who once again gives us the American
nightmare: it's possible to kill all innovation with weapons and
religious people will always rule and control.
