6
At times captivating, at times bewildering

"The Little Hours" (2017 release; 90 min.) brings the story of a group
of nuns in a small convent. As the movie opens, we are reminded it is
"Garfagnana 1347", and we watch as the nuns go about their daily tasks
and deal with their frustrations. Meanwhile, the handyman at a nearby
castle is found out to be cheating with his master's wife, and as luck
would have it, he ends up being hired by the priest running the
convent. It's not long before some of the nuns have "impure
thoughts"... To tell you more of the plot would spoil your viewing
experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it all plays out.Couple of comments: the movie is very loosely based on/inspired by the
book "The Decameron" by Italian author Giovanni Boccaccio (and source
for the infamous 1971 movie of the same name by Pier Paolo Pasolini).
Writer-director Jeff Baena takes a couple of the dozens of tales found
in that book, and builds a script around it that is intended to
showcase several of the actresses playing the nuns, including Alison
Brie and Audrey Plaza (the latter also being a co-producer). The
handyman is portrayed by Dave Franco (brother of James Franco, and
looking remarkably similar). It took my quite a while to get into the
flow of the movie, as at first we're not sure what to make of all this
(the F-bomb laced outbursts, for one). Is this even comedy? If so, it's
certainly one with a heavy twist of semi-absurd Monty Python-inspired
comedy. The movie really hits its stride in the second half, where
there are some memorable scenes (the "confession" taken by the priest
of the handyman truly is a classic). The priest is played hilariously
by John C. Reilly, who seems to revel in this part. Given that I had no
idea in the initial 20 min. whether I would even stay through the end
of the movie, that is quite remarkable! "The Little Hours" premiered at this year's Sundance Film Festival to
positive buzz, and so when it finally opened this weekend at my local
art-house theater here in Cincinnati, it was a given that I would check
it our. The Sunday evening screening where I saw this at was attended
nicely, somewhat to my surprise. Maybe people will find this a quirky
little comedy. For me it was a bit too much all over the map, even if
the second half is markedly better than the first half. In any event, I
encourage you to check it out, be it in the theater, on VOD or
eventually on DVD/Blu-ray, and draw your own conclusion.
