1
Why is this so popular?

I have fond memories of every Resident Evil game in the main series and
I am a fan still clamoring to play Biohazard 1.5. I still remember
renting the directors cut of the first game way back in the 1990's. Of
course back then we had the rumours of a George A Remero directed film
that would be released after the commercials starring Brad Renfro
started airing in Japan. For awhile we were under the mistaken belief
that the father of zombie films would be bringing one of the best
zombie video games to the silver screen. In 2002 we were unfortunate
enough to see the first film of a truly bad what would become movie
franchise. It saddens me to see that the franchise will most probably
see a sixth entry.The film starts off with a slow mo scene played in reverse, then just
played, what should have been the ending of the last film is the
beginning of the new film and I wouldn't be surprised if it was the
ending of the previous film as we are then treated to a recap by Alice
herself of every other film. What a waste of time and money. A homage
to the zombie films of the 70's is the best scene in this film where
Alice is now living in Suburbia with a husband and an kid. the zombies
pile in and Michelle Rodriguez is reintroduced as the most worthless
character, unsurprisingly it is a clone. the scene ends and we return
to an truly awful storyline. It tries to imitate Operation raccoon City
or the mercenaries play mode by having different scenarios in Moscow,
New York and Suburbia, it is explained by the crap story point that
umbrella tried to sell the virus by showing potential buyers what the T
Virus is capable of. It also introduces Ada Wong at this point looking
very much like the character in the game, not very well acted by the
actress but that has become an trademark of the franchise) so it is an
surprise when the Kevin Durand actually makes an decent Barry Burton
and it is a joy even for a few remote seconds to be treated to an
character that was in the video game that is actually done justice.
Leon s Kennedy also appears but he is not given much screen time and
unlike Kevin does not stand out and it is all to blame to the fact that
Alice should be kept alive and invincible (could this be due to the
fact that the director is married to Milla Jovovich). Albert Wesker,
let me just stop there i don't want to talk about that butchering.
Aside from the overall acting with an few exceptions, the backgrounds
especially in the 3d version seems like it was done through the age old
method of playing a film behind the actors and actresses, this does not
do much especially in 3d, it looks crap and it does not have the charm
other bad movies have or the old time horrors have. the film is bad in
every aspects, the trailers is better than the film hell, the trailer
for devil may cry had better story line than the entirety of this film.the sad thing about this all Resident Evil return and so will Alice.
Paul WS Anderson will get richer though he has an less than stellar
career and has made mediocrity into a industry that is profitable. Stop
these kind of films now and in the future we might have an industry
based on quality rather than quantity. As for my love of the games,
can't wait for Resident Evil 6 (once again clarification the game not
the film.) but please no more spin offs.
