5
The worst installment in the series thus far

About three minutes in to The Hobbit: the Desolation of Smaug we find
ourselves back in the company of our merry dwarfs, a wizard and a
hobbit as they yet again find themselves fleeing from Azog the
incompetent orc, who is attempting to kill them. The scene is fast,
action packed and not particularly exciting. When the scene is finally
at an end we are served with some forgettable dialog where the company
discusses the danger they are in, accompanied by some dramatic
background music. It's a sign of things to come. This is basically how
you will spend the next 150 minutes or so: long, drawn out action
scene, short futile discussion with dramatic background score, new
drawn out action scene. Throughout the movie I found myself desperately
searching for moments of silence. Scenes that would allow the audience
a break from this video game like narrative, but it was almost never to
be found. Now let me shoot in that I like to enjoy brainless action in movies and
video games for that matter, but that doesn't mean that it's right for
this movie. The Hobbit is an adventure film and should play out like
fairy tale. But this fairy tale suffers from a lack of restraint. It
has too much action, and amazingly, too much score. It has never been
an annoyance in the past, but really, does every piece of dialog have
to be accompanied by score? The source material for this film; the
passages of the book which describe the long walk through Mirkwood
forest, the escape from the elves and the arrival in Lake town are some
of the funniest, most memorable and imaginative from the entire book.
To my disappointment, all the charming little scenes where Bilbo runs
around invisible with his ring to help the dwarfs out of new trouble,
are cut short and hastily rushed through. You get the feeling that the
director is short on time and has to get it over quickly, but to make
room for what exactly? How on earth is it that a trilogy consisting of
three 160 minute films, all based on a short book, doesn't have the
time to fully delve in to the most memorable passages from said book?
Especially when these passages would have given the film some much
needed pacing and comical relief. The answer came towards the end. The
reason for why the film needed to move quickly was to make room for new
elaborate and drawn out action scenes - all of them completely
unnecessary for the plot. Now, I am no Tolkien purist, and I don't mind
a little creative freedom if it serves a purpose. In the Desolation of
Smaug, the only purpose seems to have been to satisfy anxious producers
that the film would have enough orc on dwarf/elf/human action, which
they obviously see as the only factor that made the three first films a
success. There are no peaks and valleys. Only a succession of ever higher peaks.
Every scene seems more action packed or dramatic than the next, with
hardly any humor at all, leaving us completely numb to everything that
happens. The criticism is one I could also direct at the first Hobbit
movie, but it was nowhere near as unrestrained as this one. The
Desolation of Smaug is more related to Peter Jackson's King Kong than
the original trilogy, and one is left to wonder how the Fellowship of
the Ring would have looked like, if it had been made with the same
creative philosophy as the Desolation of Smaug. In all likelihood the
most charming scenes would have been cut short to make room for an
hour-long battle in Moria. Let us only hope that the next film manages
to show some restraint in the build up the battle of the five armies. The only redeeming qualities in this film are the set pieces, which
have been wonderfully put together in the same manner of which we have
come to expect from the previous films. The polish and color filters
could have been toned down a bit, but visually the film is still a
masterpiece.
