5
Back to the same YA adaption you've seen before....

While the first Mazerunner set itself away from the pack of YA
Dystopian future film adaptations, Scorch Trials jumps on the
bandwagon.I even got them all confused at one point. Isn't there a 'scorch' and a
'wall' that prevents those why-are-we-so-dangerous Divergents from
crossing the void? Isn't there a great dictator and our 'only hope'
youngling who vows to 'kill' him/her in Hunger Games? Isn't there a
group of important-but-we-don't-really-know-why kids running around in
Kanye West's latest fashion line in both of those films? The first
Mazerunner kept the mystery, pace, energy, and most importantly action,
all at such a great length and mood of importance, that it was hard not
to like. Scorch Trials tries to keep that energy, but this time around
it feels forced and misdirected.Not to mention the run-time that is completely unnecessary. Like 'Mad
Max' the plot is thin. They escape, they run, they escape again, run
some more, a little bit more escaping, they run again, they escape once
more, and end the film with.... we have to go back and 'finish' this.Finish what?! What is so damn important?! We don't know because the
whole film works like a long filler episode of television. Just as two
characters are about to reveal hidden memories to one another or answer
important plot questions, they stop! I find that to be unbearable and
annoying (especially since it occurs several times from beginning to
end.)You never have a single conversation end in this film. It's all
hints, hints... nothing.And once the film ends, it ends with two lines that make no sense. "I'm
going to kill her." Why? Does that stop WKD? Nope. Then a response.
"What is your plan?" --as our hero responds with a look out in the
distance-- we cut to black..... because you don't have a f*cking plan.
Because none of you have a f*cking plan. There is a constant mood in
this film, and the Divergent films, and the Hunger Games, that
something is important, some kind of a minuscule idea is important, but
we're gonna take 8 films to kinda-sorta find out what that important
thing is.Consensus? I now consider the first Mazerunner a great film that'll
have to stand on its own. Skip Scorch, or wait for DVD. The good
things? One or two moments of action (not scenes) that are well done.
And in general the scope, set pieces, and CGI are top notch.
