9
Psychotic, hysterical and brilliant in its own way, especially for cinephiles

In the marketing for "Seven Psychopaths," CBS Films wants you to count 

the film's seven stars, but the one real psychopath (and I mean that in 

most positive and endearing way possible) that matters is writer and 

director Martin McDonagh, whose sophomore film and follow-up to "In 

Bruges" is a cockeyed stroke of genius.



Sticking with what the marketing tells us, this is a film about a 

couple dognappers who steal a mob boss's Shih Tzu and get their friend 

and girlfriends wrapped up in the mess. What it doesn't tell you is 

that Colin Farrell's character is a screenwriter working on a script 

called "Seven Psychopaths" and all he has so far is the title. Oh, and 

Farrell's character is named Marty.



If you can't tell where this is going, let's just say that "Seven 

Psychopaths" is one of those films that reserves a special place for 

movie junkies and cinephiles. Everyone will find a great deal to laugh 

at (especially Sam Rockwell), but only a certain percentage will have a 

gleeful appreciation for the meta-narrative at work.



Luckily, you don't have to identify as a film nerd to enjoy "Seven 

Psychopaths." The film is by no means exclusive or inaccessible, it 

just reaches another level of storytelling and maniacal brilliance if 

you can make those connections. Beyond that layer, the film offers a 

potent combination of semi-gratuitous violence, loony antics and some 

stirring poignancy. Throw the meta layer back in, and you have the 

equivalent of if Charlie Kaufman's "Adaptation" had been directed by 

Guy Ritchie.



The film begins with Marty, an alcoholic writer, looking for 

inspiration for his seven psychopaths. His first psychopath is inspired 

by the Jack of Diamonds Killer, a guy running around Los Angeles 

killing off mid-to-high-ranking mob men. Funny then, that his nutty 

friend Billy (Rockwell) should happen to steal Bonny, the precious Shih 

Tzu belonging to Charlie (Woody Harrelson), a sensitive yet unforgiving 

mob boss. Charlie is able to track down Billy's partner, Hans 

(Christopher Walken), and the trio is forced to make themselves scarce.



If you're still using the poster to count, then you're probably 

wondering about the other three "psychopaths." Well, one is a true 

psychopath, and that's Zachariah (Tom Waits), who responds to an add 

that Billy put in the paper to try and help Marty find more 

inspiration. Zachariah has a fascinating story of little consequence to 

the film, about how he and his wife decades ago went on a serial killer 

killing spree, gorily offing renowned American killers including 

Zodiac. His wife left him, however, for getting too soft.



As for the ladies, they have actually no bearing on the movie at all. 

Abbie Cornish and Olga Kurylenko amount to wasted talents, which is 

only bothersome because of the marketing (or, I suppose, if you're a 

hardcore feminist).



The four main players, however, give some of the best turns of their 

careers. Rockwell has never been funnier playing his cocky persona. 

Billy is so blissfully and purposefully ignorant of reality and never 

lacks for surprises. Harrelson, having played many an oddball and many 

a hard-ass, effectively blends both in Charlie. But it's Walken who has 

one of his best roles in ages. Hans has all his marbles; he's even a 

sweetheart, he just plays it abnormally cool in certain situations. 

Whereas Marty overreacts to the danger this wild premise brings, Hans 

handles it as if he expected it. Consequently, his humorous lines and 

moments really cut the tension.



Somehow, McDonagh makes "Seven Psychopaths" completely hysterical and 

off-the-wall crazy without completely shattering its believability. The 

characters, though psychopaths each in their own way, are carefully 

grounded and humanized. McDonagh gives them each something we can 

connect to emotionally, something we can identify with, in spite of 

their irrational quirks. The film occasionally takes some sharp turns 

into eye-opening dramatic territory, but it doesn't result in the 

jarring tonal nightmare you would expect that to yield from lesser 

auteurs.



And there's still this whole other stratosphere that the film enters in 

the screenplay within a screenplay context. Marty sets out at the 

beginning to write a film about peace and love that features 

psychopaths and violence, or something completely oxymoronic to that 

affect, and McDonagh finds a way (in his interpretation), to make that 

happen.



"Seven Psychopaths" seems likely to face a fate similar to "In Bruges" 

— not a whole lot of renown amongst the general public, but heaps of 

praise from those who ingest films on a regular basis. This one 

definitely has more appeal (more stars, set in Los Angeles, etc.), but 

both films have similar sensibilities. McDonagh has a real knack for 

playing around with clichés and expectations. He twists them around 

into something delightfully unexpected that despite seemingly outwardly 

silly, is quite meaningful, shocking and doubtlessly entertaining.



~Steven C




