1
The worst movie I have ever seen... PERIOD. And I've seen Batman and Robin!

I was on school camp when this movie was in cinemas and when the
teacher announced that we would be going to the movies, I got excited
because Gravity was in cinemas at the same time, but i'll get to that
later. I was praying that we wouldn't see this atrocity, but what do
you know. We did. The only redeeming quality about it was that me and
my friend picked it apart and had a lot of fun doing so. Other than
that, where do I begin? From the beginning seems like a good place...I will analyze the first scene to give you an idea of how idiotic this
movie is. Adam Sandler wakes up to find a deer in his room. He does an
Adam Sandler scream as the deer gets on its hind legs and urinates in
his mouth. Then the deer runs out into the kitchen and Sandlers' family
attempt to catch it in one of the worst scenes in cinema his-tor-y. To
begin with, the scene makes no coherent sense what so ever. The deer is
constructed of CGI technology so bad, it makes the special effects in
Godzilla (1998) look like Avatar. The scene may have been comical if
the deer was convincing enough. If they couldn't make a good looking
CGI animal then they should have scraped the idea completely. Dennis Dugan thinks people are stupid. A lot of people under 14 I know
loved this film, as the humor appeals to them in many ways. but what I
don't understand is how they can love a film as stupid as this, and
hate a movie like Gravity. Firstly, I think it has a lot to do with
maturity, as Gravity deals with themes not approached at face value,
that children will not understand. Secondly, Grown Ups 2 is playing it
safe. Dennis Dugan knows what people expect, and plays upon the
statistics to make the money he needs. But what he does not seem to
realize is that people only go to his movies at the cinema because they
want quick, mindless entertainment. His movies do not have replay
value. Films such as Gravity do, as they have many themes and messages
to ponder long after the film is finished. It urges people to watch it
again and purchase it to own in their homes, and watch at will. Gravity
is not made using conventional or normal methods of film making, which
a lot people do not like or appreciate the first time they see it. But
after a few years many films that are different become classics and
inspire new and innovative ways for films to be made. I will not go into detail of the silliness of what is laughably called
the "plot" of this film, for I know many people will not want it
spoiled. But I must urge people to avoid this film, even if they
enjoyed the original Grown Ups. I must also suggest that people begin
to expand their acceptance of films different to most.
