10
A Superb Chick Flick for Grannies!

This lovely movie was based on Doris Lessing's short story "The
Grandmothers". I just saw the premiere at Sundance and absolutely loved
it. Supposedly inspired by a true story, it's about two mothers who
really like their son's best friend (their best friend's son) And that
tag line is what you'll hear all about. Oh, the horror. I imagine
middle age male reviewers will not particularly like this movie, though
gay men will most likely love it. But it's a film about women--their
friendships, husbands, relationships, sons and lovers. It's directed by
Anne Fontaine, a French woman (which explains the exorbitant number of
scenes with smoking cigarettes, and an insanely un-American story
concept that young men might be attracted to older women.) It's beautifully crafted (gorgeous cinematography) and has intelligent
editing (watch for the skillful matched cuts that "age" the
characters). The performances are all around great. Robin Wright is
amazing--it's an Oscar caliber performance, however, the film probably
won't get a large enough release to be on the radar for awards (sort of
like poor John Hawkes not getting nominated for "The Sessions", what
was the Academy thinking?) Of course, setting the movie in Australia
means the other main character is the location. Tanned surfing teenage
boys with model-beautiful mothers in bikinis, cowabunga mate (and
significantly less handsome husbands and admirers, thankfully not shown
in Speedos.)There was laughter in the screening in places unexpected by the
director, but this was probably just anxious laughter by viewers
unaccustomed to thinking about middle aged women having sexual and
emotional interest in younger men. Actually, I felt the laughter
lightened up the viewing experience, and made the characters more human
(okay, so I laughed and cried in this movie, but I never laughed at
it.) At almost every story point where an expected turn would happen
(if following Hollywood development script notes) the writer took what
I call the "elegant decision" and pleasantly surprised me. This is all around superb filmic story telling. Brilliant performances,
intelligent and gentle direction, spectacular scenery, highly
professional technical craftsmanship, and (for most of us, I expect)
new emotional territory. It's a great film. I truly hope you get to see
it.
