10
Simply Excellent.

Deadpool is a 2016 film that the eighth film in the X-Men franchise
where The Merc with the Mouth seeks revenge in a humorous way.Wade Wilson is a mercenary who spends his time in New York City
protecting teenage girls from would-be stalkers. He meets escort
Vanessa Carlysle at a local bar and they become romantically attached
for nearly a year. He proposes to her one night, then he suddenly
collapses and is diagnosed with terminal cancer. Though she remains by
his side, he fears losing her.One night at the bar that he met Vanessa, he is approached by a
recruiter from a secret program. He is offered an experimental cure for
his cancer, but he rebuffs the man and leaves. Desperate to live, he
reconsiders and leaves Vanessa in the middle of the night to undergo
the procedure. He is injected with a special serum by Francis Freeman
and tortured for days by Angel Dust in order to trigger a mutation.
After weeks of no success, Wade is strapped into an airtight chamber
after insulting Francis. The drop in oxygen triggers a healing factor
that removes his cancer, but severely disfigures his face and skin in
the process. He escapes from the chamber by blowing it up and attempts
to kill Francis, only stopping when he claims he can cure Wade's
disfigurement. He is then impaled by rebar and left for dead in the
destruction of the lab.Although he tracks her down, he cannot come to terms with his
complexion, and he keeps himself away from Vanessa. Wade moves into the
home of an elderly blind woman named Al, and with the advice of his
best friend Weasel, he becomes a masked vigilante named "Deadpool", and
begins hunting down Francis and dismantling his organization.Following a string of leads from various syndicates, Deadpool attacks a
convoy of cars on an expressway before getting his hands on Francis,
demanding for a cure to his disfigurement. The confrontation is
suddenly interrupted by the X-Men Colossus and Negasonic Teenage
Warhead, who want him to join the team. Their intervention enables
Francis to run off, and when Colossus handcuffs himself to Deadpool on
their way back to the X-Mansion, Deadpool cuts off his own hand and
escapes back to his home.The next night, Weasel convinces Deadpool to go back to Vanessa, but
when they arrive at the strip club she works at, Deadpool discovers
that she has been kidnapped, and Francis and Angel Dust tell him to
meet up with them on a decommissioned aircraft carrier at a scrapyard.Deadpool convinces Colossus and Negasonic to help him, and the trio
take a cab to the scrapyard, where Colossus and Negasonic have a
grueling battle with Angel Dust while Deadpool slashes through an army
of goons on his way toward Francis. Deadpool and Francis then engage in
a bloody hand-to-hand combat before Negasonic uses her power to destroy
the aircraft carrier. In the end, Deadpool gains the upper hand in the
fight and Francis admits that there is no cure for Wade's
disfigurement. Although Colossus urges Deadpool to spare Francis and be
a true hero, he shoots Francis in the head, finally killing him and
avenging himself. Deadpool removes his mask and shows Vanessa his new
face. Though she is angry that he left her, she accepts him and they
reconcile by kissing.In a post-credits scene, Deadpool urges the audience to leave and go
home, then announces that there will be a sequel involving Cable.
