8
Spoilers follow ...

Based on the excellent book by Adam Nevill and adapted by Joe Barton
(and co-produced by Andy Serkis), this story focuses on four associates
who go on a hiking expedition in Sweden. Apart from anything else, they
come to honour the memory of deceased pal Robert (Paul Reid). Luke
(Rafe Spall) holds himself responsible for his friend's death (there's
a constant melancholy behind his eyes) and there is an underlying
animosity from the others because of the incident.This fuels some friction between the group, who otherwise swap some
genuinely funny banter and are a believably close-knit gang of
long-term friends. We have sensible Hutch (Robert James Collier),
whinging Dom (Sam Troughton) and pessimist Phil (Arsher Ali) – finely
drawn out characters played to perfection.The first two thirds of the film concentrate on a slow-burning
realisation that they are far from alone in this vast, oppressive,
beautiful wilderness. They suffer, do these lads, with some pretty
gruesome and hallucinogenic set-pieces. This is Blair Witch 'turned up
to 11' in many ways, and is genuinely creepy.The final third concentrates on Luke and the weird community of locals
he meets. This is a comparatively rushed second act – we never really
know the locals (only Sara, played by Maria Erwolter, has any
decipherable lines). The creature responsible for the varied graphic
happenings isn't revealed until late on, but is highly impressive.I think that apart from the location, the sound design is the star
here. There are some truly gut-wrenching noises and jump scares that
don't rely on the over-used screeching violin/Psycho-scare noises that
soundtracks often saturate scary moments with. The whole production
sounds incredible. And it looks overwhelming too - David Bruckner
directs beautifully throughout.For anyone who has read the book, there may be disappointment at the
moments that have been excised. I won't expand on that – both book and
film are more than worth your time, with neither simply a re-tread of
the other – but it is interesting to compare and contrast.Ultimately, I really enjoyed this. The build-up, in both character and
horror, is exceptional. Only the film's ending comes as a let-down, and
by that time, it is far too late to turn back.
