2
Don't watch it unless you're desperate

Different people laugh at different things. Some laugh at epic stupid
gaffs and poop jokes, some find stupidity suffocating and unfunny. I'm
among the latter. Some few laughs here and there other that the story must assume we are
stupid to believe any of this crap! So, the parents "suddenly" realise
they don't have enough money to send their daughter to uni. So they
decide with their equally broke friend to start an illegal casino.
Where they get the money to start such a casino? Nobody knows. Then
expansions and more expansions (work that would take contractors months
to finish is complete in the same amount of time it takes for the
camera to pan to the left!) but come on we don't want to get pedantic
now do we? Farce after farce, more bullshit piling up by the minute ...
For some bizarre reason, there's a side story about the estranged wife
of Will Ferrell's friend. She gives her husband the divorce papers to
sign because she had enough of his gambling and she appears to have
started dating another guy. Suddenly, the wife changes her mind for
absolutely no reason even after she finds out the husband is now
opening an illegal casino complete with a mini brothel! Yep! A mini
brothel and a DJ with pool parties that SOMEHOW don't get any attention
in small town suburbia. The movie makes every single American look like a money grabbing greedy
idiot of some sort. Nobody seems to be remotely a voice of basic reason
of any nature. May be if they classified this movie as a surreal story
and put some flying pink elephants in it, it would've done a bit
better. Amid this insanity, the three buddies start (for no reason at
all) attacking town people, raiding their shops, beating them up with
shoes and other objects, threatening them with soldering irons,
throwing them out of their vehicles, etc etc without anyone complaining
to the police, berating them, or even saying anything to them at work.
And this is where I lost any respect or empathy and felt I was watching
hysterical vomit. I'm very angry that someone in Hollywood actually thinks we are a bunch
of stupid losers who can happily part with their hard earned cash for
this rubbish piece of work and walk away without feeling we've just
been insulted or mugged by it. Watch it only if stupid jokes and general ridiculousness cut it for
you!
