8
Powerful? Yes. Fearless? Yes. An easy watch? No

Tackling a difficult and sensitive subject on film is very brave, and
also important in showing how awful sexual abuse is and the damaging
effects it leaves on the victims. While a difficult subject, generally,
due to the amount of ignorance and generalisations it garners (with
victim blaming for example), it needs to be addressed more.Like my fairly recent (a couple of months ago) viewing of 'The Girl in
the Book', 'Una' is a tough watch but overall very rewarding, being
beautifully done and emotionally powerful. Based on David Harrower's
play 'Blackbird', although not a victim of sexual abuse, 'Una' really
resonated with me and shows no signs of being afraid to show the full
effects and not trivialise it. It also captures the claustrophobia of
the play so that there is plenty of tension, but does it in a way that
opens things out and not make it feel stage-bound (a danger with
films/television translated from plays).'Una' is not flawless. It does drag somewhat in the middle act and the
shifts from past to present day to start with are not always clear.
Otherwise, there is very little wrong with it and it does a huge amount
right.It's a good-looking film, being very nicely and atmospherically shot
and lit. The music is never intrusive or too low-key, it doesn't
overbear the drama while still having presence and in no way does it
feel inappropriate.Benedict Andrews directs with a suspenseful touch, passion for the
subject and potent realism, he doesn't allow the film to hold back nor
does he allow it to go overboard with the unsubtle. 'Una' is not always
subtle but that is not an issue, the subject itself isn't subtle
either. The script is taut and poignant, with the confrontation between
the present day Una and Ray having so much harrowing truth.What really makes 'Una' particularly good are the storytelling and
performances. The story may drag in the middle at times, but the final
act is electrifying and logical, not trivialising the effects of the
abuse like the final act of 'The Girl in the Book' did and rings true
far more. The confrontation is particularly harrowing while the main
characters' thoughts, darkest desires and motivations are just as
frightening, complex and difficult to fathom. On the most part, the
past (through flashbacks) and present day time-lines are structured
clearly and beautifully intertwined.Rooney Mara and Ben Mendelssohn's performances are positively on
blistering fire, particularly Mara, while that of Ruby Stokes is also
hard to forget in the best of ways.In conclusion, not quite one of my favourites of the year or ever, but
powerful and brave film and that it was not an easy watch, considering
the subject it's portraying, worked in its favour rather than against
it. 8/10 Bethany Cox
