7
Surprisingly good, great CGI

Supposedly, the beginnings of Vampires in America and a story about
Honest Abe (Benjamin Walker) as he hunts them down before becoming our
16th president. I had no idea who Benjamin Walker is. Anyone? Yes, I suspected, but had
never heard the truth that Abraham Lincoln was a Vampire Hunter..until
now. And, now you will too, if you watch this movie. I can hear you
asking, "is it all true" Well, of course, it is. Hollywood wouldn't
make up something if it weren't true now, would they? And, yes, they
are finally admitting the truth about Edgar Allen Poe being a detective
who wrote poems on his stake-outs. But, on to Abe..as a Vampire
Hunter.But first, before you turn away from this one, let me tell you of
2-scenes that are worth your time. The first one is a battle between
Abe and Vampire Jack Barts (Marton Csokas) on horses in a horse
stampede. Yes, that's right. In a horse stampede. The way this was done
was nothing short of fantastic and you will ask yourself " how in the
world did they do this?" The second one is near the end on a burning
bridge the train is crossing. Unbelievable how they did this. Again,
you will ask yourself "how in the world did they do this?" They took
CGI to a new level. You will be talking about these two scenes for a
long time. Kudos, kudos and kudos again. The entire production, photography, dialogues were all first rate as
were the actors within. The music was spot on especially with the train
near the end chug-chugging in time with the beat. Excellent.Yes, there is some gore as Abe settles in to become the Vampire Hunter
we know and love, and his weapon of choice is an Axe. Hey, he was a
rail-splitter at one time. Keep up.Abe is befriended by Henry (Dominic Cooper) who teaches him how to kill
Vampires. But, waitHenry has a secret.The main villain Vampire is Adam played by Rufus Sewell and he is
always good. And, we learn how the battle for Gettysburg was really
won. Yes, the North won but now you will learn how they did it. Never
before told.One more thing: finally, someone decided on a Mary Todd Lincoln (Mary
Elizabeth Winstead) who is easy on the eyes. Good choice. And, yes,
Benjamin Walker makes a good Lincoln especially with the beard later on
in the movie. It's true, I didn't want to see this movie much less do a review on it.
A friend I won't name (Russ) recommended it and thanks to him I
discovered the truth and it set me free. Now, I know all. Will you?
(7/10)Violence: Throughout Sex: No. Gore: Yes, there is some. Nudity: Yes,
quick shot of a dead woman with a breast exposed. Language: Only two
f-bombs were heard. Otherwise no language at all. (7/10)
