9
One word. The word is "balls".

Just watched it on blu-ray. I'm not an expert on the source material, I
never read much of the comic books, but I was encouraged by some of the
reviews here. So I bought it at a discount, watched it, and...I love it. No, it's not a masterpiece. No brilliance in the story, no
$200M effects budget, no complex characters. Instead, it reeks of
testosterone. It smells like victory. It tastes like the good old times
of Robocop and Die Hard. It feels totally uncompromised and rare in
today's cinema.I like the simple construct of this movie. When "Dredd" begins, you're
thrown straight into the story. When the story ends, the movie ends
too, no hugs or aftermath. The setting is somewhat contained, smallish
in scale and makes the movie intense. The small effects budget is used
well, practical visual effects mixed with CGI in an interesting manner.
The uniforms are wonderful and the world is bleak in just the right
way. This simple story is well-paced and never gets boring. Also,
"Dredd" doesn't pretend to be anything else, anything more than it is.
It's honest and uncompromising, It's merciless and it's solid.Karl Urban has got the perfect voice and chin (with that little frown)
for this character. That's right, the helmet stays on. He plays the
main character in a certain wooden way that absolutely fits. I don't
remember much about the comics, but I remember enough that Urban does
the character justice. He's a very convincing Dredd and I loved
watching him. My respect for him as an actor skyrocketed. He isn't here
to promote himself. He isn't here to just "play" Dredd. He is Dredd.
Well done, Karl. Olivia Thirlby is Anderson, Dredd's sidekick. Don't worry, because
she's not a female version of Rob Schneider, a forced love interest or
some useless Megan Fox. No, instead Olivia's character is useful,
humane, interesting and brings a perfect contrast to Dredd - the
balance is wonderful. Thirlby can act, and yes she is beautiful too.
She's simply adorable. Thumbs up.Lena Headey makes an excellent villain. She's not your cardboard cutout
villain, she's more like a nihilistic drug addict. The fear she strikes
into her minions (especially Domhnall Gleeson's wonderfully played
character) is not only believable but exciting to watch. Fine job.This movie works so well because there is nothing in it to distract you
from what the movie is really about. There is nothing forced. No
sentimentality, no token romance, no questioning of morals, no needless
twists. On top of that, "Dredd" needed to be a really, really violent
movie. And that's exactly what it is. It's brutally unforgiving in just
the right way. It doesn't quite turn into a gore fest, but the violence
is effective and very satisfying. These things alone warrant a great
deal of respect. We live in a time where everything is PG13, bland and
full of some moral or political propaganda (of which some people
wrongly accuse Dredd). For once, we got the real thing.What are the negatives then? I don't know. I can't find any significant
flaws. Perhaps the soundtrack could've been more to my personal taste,
perhaps the weapons could've sounded "bigger", perhaps some of the CGI
blood could've been done in the old-fashioned way...see? I can only
think of minor gripes. I wouldn't even ask for a more ambitious
storyline or a huge parade of special effects because I like how
contained, simple and effective "Dredd" is. Director Pete Travis and
Karl "the scowl" Urban, I owe you a beer.Dredd - no bullshit, just balls. Enjoy.
