3
Tries too hard in an already crowded and decadent genre.

I can appreciate the horror theme of cannibalism, although I
religiously hold Hannibal Lecter as the only cannibal movie done right
because it choose not to just focus on the shock and horror of gore but
also include a psychological nature that wasn't encrypted, symbolic or
metaphorically executed. It was in the open and allowed for an actually
intriguing story to unfold as we got a mix of horror, gore, drama,
romance and psychology all in one. The problem most movies make nowadays alike Sci Fi copying Star Wars is
that they don't understand how to make a movie alike the original.
Instead they copy the themes and reckon the horror tropes, blood, and
value of visuals will be sufficient. I feel that Raw commits the same mistake. It tries so hard to magnify
the suppressed desires of our lead character with various color
palettes, hardcore music, overdone theatrics. And it basically turns
into a complete horror show without the horror. Instead with dead
corpses, blood, murder and outrageous actions that have no rhyme or
reason other than to shock you and give you the impression of chaos,
death, reveling in destruction and devouring of flesh. THe issue with this is that the characters are poorly designed and
their progress is forced and lackluster. For instance. The lead
characters sister by accident loses her finger. She faints by watching
this event. Yet about 30 minutes later in the movie its revealed that
shes a cannibal who has embraced her desires and she has no problem
looking at blood, nor even biting people. One moment we think the lead
character is unique and has gory pleasures, the next we discover that
the entire freaking school is packed with freak shows. And that's another thing that bothers me with thing. THe entire school
is packed with your typical overblown frat groups. Messing up peoples
bedrooms, tossing paint at people, embracing hedonism to insane extent.
THe teachers don't care at all. Barely present. And basically. Its
anarchy. Yet hilariously the frat boys talk about freedom !!! yet 5 minutes
later they force people to call them specific names per hierarchy, and
enforce dress codes. What the f. Freedom ... yeah right.All in all, this movie annoyed me. Its packed with stereotypes,
overblown frat dudes that just force you to be free by conforming to
brainless mentality. And the biggest crime of this movie calling itself
a horror is... that most of the really bad scenes actually occur WHEN
OUR LEAD CHARACTER IS Subconscious. Meaning the evil and loss of
control is not something we directly see happening. Only the aftermath.
And sure its gory and all that. But honestly. The movie is
non-sensical. And that's why I used the word decadence in my title. Because by the end of this movie that is the ultimate emotional
expressal you experience. How its worn, how its tired, wrong feeling,
sad and self destructive. If that's what the director was aiming to nail, well done. You managed
to capture that perfectly. But in my opinion, I don't see why we would
want to experience this as viewers. You walk away feeling you've seen
better, compared to Hannibal you never form a sense of catharsis. There
is no greater knowledge gained from this. It has meant nothing. And that's because you discover not only what I've mentioned but the
story takes a detour when it begins to focus on a the lead characters
sister instead until she gets captured, goes to jail for murdering
someone. Multiple people actually. Completely unhinged but whatever. And the baby sister with similar desires, for no bloody reason other
than vegetarians tasting meat apparently triggers monstrous desires...
life goes on only to discover that this apparently runs in the family.
Being the cause of their vegetarianism. Look. I get the gorefest here is to some peoples liking. But I didn't
enjoy it. It felt overdone, unfinished, sporadic, lackluster and
extremely over the top to the extent that I just shook my head at
times. The movie is decadent. Better movies have been done and those are the
ones you should watch instead because they offer you an ending that
actually gives you a sense of continuum with characters you enjoy, evil
as they are. Sir Anthony Hopkins being a prime example, or Clarice
Starling, being an incredibly interesting character. Why do I keep referring to Hannibal? For 2 reasons. Its story and
characters. Well written, well done, and they have much more to them
than just this mix of teen rebelliousness and the metaphor for desire,
lust, lack of control translated into hunger for flesh. Because that is
what it is. Make no mistake. We've seen the whole medical school gone nuts before. And it wasn't
that well done the first time, nor second. And this movie is no
different. You walk away feeling meh because of how it ends, because of how
everything transpired, because of this awful music that tries so hard
to nail the sad, hopeless atmosphere, when its not riling up the inner
demon within you to have sex with everything including the dead and
murder people. But yes. Enough of this rant/review. 3 out of 10. Absolutely tries to
hard and ends up decadent, sad, without any catharsis WHATSOEVER. And
the color palette amplifying the scenery, emotional turbulence manages
only to capture death, sorrow, decay and rot. Even the sex scenes are
touched by this. THe correlation between Hedonism and destruction in
this movie served no purpose other than to annoy me. Watch something else. Want psychological horror. Watch Hannibal. Want
gore? Watch Eat from 2014, or Excision. Those movies do this better.
