10
It's an epic film of sexual perversion in the best way, but is told in a very sweet and loving fashion.

I didn't know what quite to expect with David Wnendt's adaptation of
Charlotte Roche's novel 'Wetlands', but I can assure you that after
watching it, I discovered beauty and innocence in the most unlikely of
places. Filled with orgasms, the erotic use of vegetables, sexual
adventures, sharing used tampons, and even anal operations from the
eyes of a female, Wnendt's artistic and stylish movie, which stars an
incredible Carla Juri is not only one of the most risqué films I've
ever seen, but it's handled with such care that it's end result is a
beautiful and sweet film. I just wish this movie would have a wider
release here in America, but I'm sure once word- of-mouth hits the
streets on this, 'Wetlands' will become an instant cult classic, and
might even push the novel of the same name to the top of the charts
again.We see the world through an idiosyncratic young woman named Helen
(Juri), who in the opening scene, walks through a deplorable and
flooded public bathroom and rubs her bare privates over the disgusting
and used toilet seat, as she tells us she likes to use her vagina as a
science experiment. Helen lives with her divorced mother (Meret Becker)
and sees her wealthy father (Axel Milberg) quite often. Helen is a free
spirit who is obsessed with everything sexual.When she is not testing different kinds of fruit and vegetable to see
which one makes her climax the fastest, she and her best friend Corrina
(Marlen Kruse) skateboard around town, finding new ways and new people
to experience intimate moments with. And as to do a science experiment
on us the audience to see if we can handle the movie, Wnendt shows us a
scene between Corrina and her heavy metal drummer boyfriend that might
gross out some people, but it's handled in such an innocent and
humorous way that it almost becomes silly and child-like.Despite whatever sex act is thrown are way, including a scene where
you'll never look at a pizza the same way again, Helen pulls off this
one-of-a-kind charm and wit that exposes us to our innocent side as she
tells us story after story of debauchery. But there is something much
deeper here than just sexual escapades. When a shaving accident puts
Helen in the hospital for anal surgery, she begins to think back to her
troubled childhood where we clearly see some sort of abuse going on
that has turned her into the unique woman she is today – good and bad.
She takes an interest in a good looking male nurse (Christophe
Letkowski) as she tells him of her past experiences, while she secretly
hopes she can bring back her divorced parents together, something that
every child with a broken home wants.Juri is one of the most talented actresses I've seen in the last ten
years and she plays Helen perfectly. You can see her character being
eaten at from the inside and Juri's face and eyes sell her torment,
hurt, and love flawlessly. She really is an incredible character. And
Wnendt's camera picks up every squish, drip, and erotic moment
perfectly as he takes his cues from David Fincher's 'Fight Club' and
Danny Boyle's 'Trainspotting'.It's an epic film of sexual perversion in the best way, but is told in
a very sweet and loving fashion. The score and impressive soundtrack
always add to the amusement of the film's nature. 'Wetlands' is a film
you won't soon forget.
