7
Weakest Link in the Chain

It's amazing how far this franchise has gone on the power of
post-modern yuck-yucks and an overall chipper attitude towards the
cynicism of its central premise. The first film burst onto the scene
with so much frenetic energy and easygoing glee that the kid in all of
us rightfully celebrated. When the long awaited LEGO Batman Movie
(2017) followed earlier this year, we all got a little older and a
little wiser but nonetheless enjoyed it largely for its nostalgic
qualities.The LEGO Ninjago Movie on the other hand feels like a funny joke that
you've heard three times on the same night. It's still funny but lacks
the surprise from the first time and the sense of being in the in-group
the second time around. Now it's just forced laughter jumbled into the
same chock-a-block world and lovingly wrapped around the same old
themes of daddy issues and struggling to work as a team. Are LEGOs a
generational symbol for latchkey kids and I just didn't know it?Ninjago however seems geared towards the younger set. It takes the same
setup as the TV show (I guess), pitting a group of color-coded ninjas
with building-sized mech suits against an evil four-armed warlord named
Garmadon (Theroux). The kicker is one of Ninjago's heroes; the
enigmatic Green ninja (Franco) is secretly Garmadon son Lloyd. A fact
that makes Lloyd a social pariah at his high school and morphs the plot
from the expected mech v monster setup to one with more personal
stakes.The personal stakes vis a vis resentments and eventual reconciliation
are arguably the best parts of the movie. The antagonizing father/son
relationship provides the plot with much needed complexity and impetus
while also landing some of the most unexpected jokes. One reoccurring
gag involves Lloyd's inability to catch and throw because (sob) he
never had a father to teach him. It's a gag approached with the
franchise's trademark absurdist glee guaranteeing that the kids will be
none the wiser, but the characterizations still hint at unspoken
sadness that adults are likely to connect with.The franchise further bolsters its "something-for-everyone" style by
parodying Japanese tokusatsu tropes and characters that most will
knowingly catch. The sextet of ninjas is of course color-coded and, of
course is given elemental themes that fit their personalities. Much of
their quest is informed by a wise master (Chan) who speaks vaguely
about this and that and of course at some point there's a monster that
rampages through the city. Instead of being sincere about these
predictable tropes, in true LEGO fashion, the film undermines and
lampoons them to variant levels of success.But despite a few good setups, Ninjago can't help but feel like déjà
vu. Stripped of its genre trappings, its specialty bricks and its
unnecessary framing device with a live-action Jackie Chan, Ninjago is
left with many of the same things that worked the last two times. i.e.
a self-effacing heroes journey where the story's twists and turns boils
down to a secret f**k you to absent fathers. Add to that the sneaking
suspicion that I'm not just being sold LEGOs but Ninjago brand LEGOs
and it becomes clear the glibness of the franchise as a whole is
starting to show its shortcomings. As far as kids movies released this
year, Ninjago is pretty much on par. But as far as Lego movies go,
Ninjago is definitely the weakest link in the chain.
