6
Who's to judge which boundaries shouldn't be crossed?

"Adore" is the newest film by BAFTA-nominated director Anne Fontane,
probably the most-well known Luxemburger in the movie industry these
days. And just like her earlier works, this film is a mostly
female-centered character study of interpersonal relationships that can
be considered abysmal or perfectly normal depending on what's your
approach to the topic and point of view.The story is summarized quickly. We get to witness two best friends
(Watts and Wright) who fall in love with each other's sons, best
friends themselves. Of course this kind of relationship is quite a
taboo, so they keep it secret knowing it will run out at some point
anyway when the boys inevitably find partners their age. But will it
really? Here and there, the movie has a weakness, like how it's almost
impossible to make the aging of Wright's and Watt's character look
appropriate for the giant jumps in time. With the boys they did an okay
job with their change in clothes and style, but for the women it was
quite a challenge too tough to master. As a whole though, the film was
not revolutionary or particularly must-watch in any way, but I'd still
recommend it. The good acting as well as the interactions over the
years between the characters involved in that love square (is that the
right term? just imagine a love triangle with a fourth corner) make it
worth a watch mainly because of the forbidden fruit character, but also
because of those poor souls more or less involved with everybody of the
four: the husband, the colleague in the first half, and the two girls
in the second half. Another thing I like about it is how it really
offers room for discussion:Should they have split up right when things started? Could they even?Was the reaction of Wright's character appropriate the moment Watts'
character was left for a younger girl? I'd say no. This part really
bothered me. Why make that sacrifice if attraction and love are still
there. Too far-fetched for my taste.Are their actions morally wrong initially? Should Watts' character have
told her best friend about them coming back together? And what about
the ending? How will things go on from then?I personally believe none of the characters is really to blame as they
just followed their hearts. Should they have acted against this urge
only because of social conventions? I say as long as there's no incest
involved, which obviously wasn't here, every man is the architect of
their own fortune.On a final note, it could be added that Nobel-prize winner Doris
Lessing and writer of the original book which was adapted for this
film, died earlier this year way into her 90s. Quite a pity. It would
have been interesting to see what she had to say about this movie. I
say it's 100 entertaining minutes.
