9
Terrifically detailed work directed by a living legend, and starring one too!

This is based on a true incident from a few years ago, where a veteran
pilot actually was able to land his plane in the Hudson river in NYC
and with all on board surviving. It is a terrifically detailed but slow
moving work by 86 year old living legend Clint Eastwood starring the
Jimmy Stewart/everyman of our era, in two time - should have been three
time -Oscar winner Tom Hanks as the quietly unheroic hero pilot. (You
were robbed of the statuette in 2000 for "Cast Away", Tom. Who else
could play opposite a volleyball for two hours and make it work?).I'm reminded of Eastwood's 2003 Academy Award winning "Mystic River" in
that he deliberately takes his time in adapting the book, as he does
here as well. The script is a little odd, shifting back and forth
between the events of the day itself and the hearing to decide whether
the pilot and co-pilot were at fault for not heading to one of the
nearby airports. This leads to a little awkwardness during the first
third of the film, but then works out just fine. We see the big event
twice - The epic landing of the jet is more than worth seeing in and of
itself.Aaron Eckhart, for once, gets to play a good guy, the co-pilot. How
nice to see Delphi Harrington, a much underused actress, as the
passenger in the wheelchair. She was marvelous as an intelligent,
sophisticated woman in the long-gone soap opera Where the Heart Is and
was also believable as a trashy Southern murderess on Guiding Light and
as a trashy Southern prostitute on All My Children. Here she plays a
somewhat stereotypical New York Jewish mother. As a daughter she gets
Valerie Mehaffey of Desperate Housewives.Sully shows something rarely seen in movies these days, the simple
heroism of ordinary people, like the ferry boat crew members who rescue
the passengers from the plane.Be sure to stay for the credits, where you will see a reunion of many
of the actual passengers and crew from the flight. And as Columbo would
say, just one more thing - The last line of the movie is a hoot and got
a big laugh! Highly recommended.
