10
"Hush"- A thrilling and very fun old-fashioned home-invasion flick!  Exceedingly well-written and executed.

One of the great tragedies in modern horror is that many of the best
contemporary releases in the genre often go tragically underrated and
under recognized by the bulk of audiences, while attaining general
apathy and dismissal from those who do give them a chance. High quality
and cerebral releases like "It Follows" and "The Witch" are condemned
as "boring" and "pointless" by people who refuse to analyze their
themes and deeper meanings. Subversive and satirical films like
"Krampus" and "The Cabin in the Woods" are blasted for being "not
scary" or "stupid" by those who misunderstand their intentions. And
excellent foreign films like "The Babadook" and "The Devil's Backbone"
are given barely a token limited domestic release before being dumped
onto home video with little fanfare and are ignored by the masses.Being a legitimate fan of all things horror can be hard. You really
have to look out for the good films. And even moreso, you have to be
willing to give just about every film you find a chance because so many
so-called "horror audiences" are, well... way too quick to judge and
all to happy to denounce solid films for any number of silly reasons.
Case in point? Director Mike Flanagan's highly entertaining and very
fun home-invasion thriller "Hush"- a film with a simple but brutally
effective high-concept set-up that pays off wonderfully. And yet,
despite wide critical acclaim and the film's rampant strengths, it's
being dismissed and nit-picked apart by general audiences, like most
good recent releases of its genre.We follow lead character Maddie (co-writer Kate Siegel), an author who
lives alone out in the woods and is struggling to come up with an
ending for her latest novel. However, tonight she is not alone- for a
twisted and disturbed masked man (John Gallagher Jr.) appears and
begins to stalk her and taunt her, threatening to kill her as he has
several others. And Maddie has an incredibly disadvantage... she is a
deaf-mute, and cannot necessarily hear him coming. And so, she must
rely on her cunning and her creative mind to overcome this devilish
threat and try to escape with her life...The film's success lay in its brutally simple but extremely elegant
story-line and the top-notch execution that director Flanagan and the
cast excel at. The film struck me as quite charming and quaint...
almost old-fashioned in a way. It reminded me of other, similar movies
from yester-year in a really fun way. Flanagan and Siegel know just how
to perfectly structure the film in such a way that it hits just the
right beats and never overstays its welcome. It's a very efficient film
with just the right sense of urgency and pacing. All the main players
are introduced and immediately defined. The action starts quickly and
only lets up in a few appropriate key moments to give the audience some
breathing room. And every single facet of the story is established and
paid off in a really clever way. As far as screen writing goes... the
script for this film is pretty much perfect. I could see it being used
as a studying tool for aspiring writers and in creative-writing
classroom settings. I've seen some people bemoan the fact that some
aspects of the story are not explained... but this is just mind-
boggling. We learn everything we need to know for the story that's
being told. We don't need excessive and unnecessary detail. That would
just clutter the narrative and make for a weaker film.The film is quite slick in terms of direction, and I've been finding
that Flanagan is quickly becoming one of the go-to's for effective
mainstream horror. This is the third film of his I've seen, and he
seems to grow more and more with each release. He's confident with his
visual storytelling without letting it become a distraction, and he
injects just enough style and flourish to augment the story and really
drive it home. He never relies on cheap tricks like incessant
camera-shake or false jumps... he knows the situation is frightening
enough in and of itself. Very excellent work that is complimented by
the top-notch lighting and cinematography of DP James Kniest and the
dreary tones of composers The Newton Brothers. And to top it off, the
performances are excellent. Siegel is endlessly likable as our lead,
and she's never too strong or too vulnerable. She feels like a real
person stuck in a truly terrifying situation. Gallagher Jr. is devilish
fun as our adversary and is a truly slimy, threatening presence. And
supporting roles by the likes of Samantha Sloyan and Michael Trucco are
ideally cast and expertly performed.It's quite a disservice to such an excellent film that it was never
given a proper theatrical release and was instead released
predominately as a Netflix film. This is the sort-of movie I'd kill to
see on the big screen with the right audience, as we gasp, scream and
applaud together. It's a wonderfully made, highly efficient and
wickedly well-written film and is easily going to become a go-to for
Halloween night viewings and late-night horror-movie marathons for my
friends and I. I freaking loved every second of it.There's no other way to say it... I gotta give it a 10. There's
basically no faults to be found here. It gives you everything you could
possibly want from a high-concept home-invasion thriller, and then
some.
