10
A brilliant "waste of time"

Brilliant, absolutely brilliant! For me, this is one of the best movies
in history of cinema. If you did not see it already, then go to the
cinema and watch it before you read further. I apologize for my not so
polished English. It's not my first language, and I'm still learning
it.I went to the cinema with almost no information about this movie. All I
know was its a sci-fi. I had no clue who plays in it, or who directed
it. First surprise came at the ticket booth. The ticket price was
around 15% higher then any other movies I have seen*. This must be a
real good movie... After twenty minutes I was already bored by the
clichés. East European emigrant in USA with huge dreams, became a
toilet cleaner, but soon she will be saved by a werewolf and she will
be some kind of princess of the "world". What an original idea... As
some other reviewers pointed out, the movie is full of scenes borrowed
from other movies and video games, as far as I see. Scenes, music,
sound effects. Everything. Stunning visual effects, but shallow story
and almost non existent character development. For the first sight...
After an hour I could not believe that I paid for this... This was the
first movie I was trying to sleep in.At the end there was a single sentence that stuck in my head: time is
the single most precious thing in the universe. Funny, a film seemingly
completely waste of time talks about your precious time.With friends we talk about the movie for an hour. The conclusion: it is
so pointless that this must be the point.Then, next day it hit me! It hit me so hard, first I had to sit down,
then I was walking around in my room for a half hour. This movie is
like a huge puzzle. It makes no sense until you find the corner pieces.
I think I found one of those pieces. TIME, the single most precious
thing in the universe. This movie is about Us, about how we live, about
how we waste our precious time. Its about the clichés filling our life.The first thought of her at morning: "I hate my life!" Didn't you ever
thought that? Her mother and aunt works dutifully, like robots. They
are the modern slaves of our days. She is dreaming about a better life,
about expensive clothes, while the rich girl can not decide which cloth
she should wear when her rich boyfriend will "ask her" to merry him. We
all know this will not happen, but she believes it. She wants to be a
wife of a rich guy. A toilet cleaner emigrant with brand new iPhone? We
are working to get money, to buy things we can not afford. Her uncle
practically try to sell her body parts – eggs- and take most of the
money, just because "this is capitalism". Spending money before you
have it. Anyone? He spends on what? Big screen TV and video games.
Things he can not afford, but he thinks it will change his life. He
waste money so he can wast more time. ...these are just the first few
minutes!It contains countless references to movies, video games, books, to
different parts of popular culture, even religions. In every scene you
can find parts of other movies, games, books. Just watch it and find
your pieces.We are products, just as depicted in the movie. We are just numbers on
some rich and powerful peoples spreadsheet. We are money machines. Do
you think most movies are made for us? NO! Most movies are made for
profit. Look at the movies of the last decade. They can sell a movie
with a shallow story,and stunning visuals. They can sell it with an
actor. They can sell it with just a name behind it. Most people praise
this movie for the stunning visuals, Mila Kunis and Channing Tatum
(their bodies, not their act). Here is a movie with so deep meanings,
that almost no one notices. Its not hidden. It pokes our eyes. But we
can't see it. There were so many meaningless movies in the last decade,
we can't see any difference. We don't even expect movies with any
deeper meaning. Most of the movies and video games are just escapes
from our life.I feel I need to say a few more words about the end of the movie to
make it round. Did you noticed, she was smiling at the end, even while
cleaning the toilet? She was not whining about her life any more. She
wake up early, made coffee, and she was happier when she got that old
brass telescope then when she become the absolute ruler of the Earth.
She did change, but not the way you expected. She enjoys the little
details of the life. Enjoys her work, even if its toilet cleaning,
enjoys the morning coffee with her family, the noisy dinner. For me, it
seems like, she understood that time is our single most precious thing
in the universe. She enjoys every moment of her life :)As I said, this movie es a brilliant piece of art. It is about our
life. You just need to find a corner piece of the puzzle. I showed one
piece for you! Wake up Neo! Now go, waste some more of your precious
time, watch this movie again, and find your corner pieces, make your
puzzle complete :) I will do the same. I have to watch this again...Thank you for your precious time, I hope it worth reading :)PS*: probably the higher ticket price was just a coincidence. But it
made more impact. The pain of wasting my time was stronger.
