8
Fun, Simple Will Ferrell Hilarity,

The House is a great movie with a well developed plot and a top notch
comedic cast. It is a simple frat pack comedy, it does not do anything
groundbreaking, only exactly what we would expect, it did not try to
raise the standard, and that is fine by me. These type of comedies
work, and are widely appealing to today's general age group of
moviegoers, we get to watch actors have fun, and as a result of that,
so do we. One thing I would say about it that was underwhelming was when it tried
to be meaningful, I have no problem with a movie that may initially
seem like a straight up comedy actually having some heart, but it felt
very forced and shoe horned in here. Trying to convey the two main
characters ambitions to get their daughter in to college simply does
not work when a scene five minutes before that showed them getting
drunk and struggling to quietly enter their home. The cast is absolutely hilarious, I have no gripes with each casting,
and the chemistry between everyone was phenomenal. Will Ferrell shines
as always, clearly going off script on many occasions, his chemistry
with Amy Poehler was great, as was she, they seemed very at ease with
each other. It was great to finally see Jason Mantzoukas in a main
role, he has shined in several other comedies in minor parts, as well
as many stellar appearances in Brooklyn Nine Nine, I was delighted to
finally see him play a major character, and hope to see more from this
special comic in the future. Nick Kroll is also great, playing a very
unlikeable character, he continues to surprise me in every role he
plays, showcasing furthermore that he is a very versatile comedic
actor. Great fun from beginning to end. Hilarious and with a stellar group of
comedians, The House is definitely worth the watch for anybody looking
for a good comedy. Two parents start an illegal casino in their friend's house in order to
make enough money to get their daughter to college. Best Performance: Will Ferrell
