2
Failed attempt at re-making a classic

ROBOCOP (2014) is the latest in a LONG list of remakes/reboots that
have come in droves in the 21st century. For the most part, modern
remakes just simply do not work, and this film is no exception. The
first strike against them is the seeming requirement that they have to
be PG-13, when the original was most probably R in the 80s, and I can
even remember a few PG-13 movies back in the day that pushed the
envelope more so than anything now! The original 1987 version of
Robocop was a lightning-in-a-bottle classic, a perfect amalgamation of
action, sci-fi, horror, satire, and drama. Sometimes, a film works
simply because it doesn't TRY to be anything more than entertaining and
everything else just comes together. I think that the problem with this
2014 version is that it TRIED to be different to the point that it
focused so much on what it was trying to be, that it forgot that movies
are meant at their core to simply entertain.In watching this film in the movie theatre, I could not help but be
reminded of the relatively recent "The Dark Knight", a monumentally
overrated "comic-book" film from 2008 that has unfortunately changed
the way that superhero movies are being presented. First there was "Man
of Steel from last year, which had way too much pontification,
meandering, and dizzying action to be entertaining. Now, with this
film, there is a similar tone of characters talking way too much about
man-versus-machine, the price of sacrifice, and, similar to TDK,
minimal yet confusing action sequences. In this version, the dialog
spells everything out to the viewer and it feels like characters are
talking directly through the movie screen. In the original, the
character actions spoke for themselves and everything felt organic. By
the end of the original, I felt uplifted. By the end of this, I felt
confused.This re-boot tells a much different tale of Detroit cop Alex Murphy
(essayed by a very-underused Joel Kinnaman from AMC's "The Killing").
In this film, Murphy is an undercover detective and is fully entrenched
within his department (in the original, he was a uniformed-street cop
who had just been transferred). Murphy's partner had just been shot in
an arms deal gone wrong and he suspects a couple of his fellow officers
of being dirty cops working for the city's biggest arms dealer Antoine
Vallon (a literal useless character played by Patrick Garrow).The Murphy-Vallon rivalry is virtually non-existent in this film and
acts as a red herring. Turns out the film is not really about revenge,
so much as Murphy's subsequent adjustment to living as a machine after
one of Vallon's goons sabotages Murphy's car with a bomb, thereby
almost killing him and turning him into a vegetable. In steps Omnicorp,
run by billionaire Raymond Sellars (brilliantly played by Michael
Keaton in the film's standout performance), who repair Murphy by making
his body over 90% robotics, only leaving vital organs and his right
hand in tact. So in this version, Murphy never really dies. He is
actually still "human". I know that this is supposed to be science
"fiction", but even this plot point goes way too far over my head! When
I saw how Murphy really looked without the suit, I just couldn't wrap
my head around how this was even possible.The main scientist tasked with re-building Murphy is Dr. Dennett Norton
(played earnestly by a very over-used Gary Oldman). In fact, Oldman
actually has the largest role in this film, not Kinnaman, who's barely
in it. And I couldn't really buy Oldman as a scientist. It seemed like
he was channeling his Commissioner Gordon character too much from TDK.A decent subplot involves how Murphy's wife Clara (well-played by Abbie
Cornish) and son David (nicely played by John Paul Ruttan) react to
Alex's fate. This is in contrast to the original film where Murphy's
family was only ever seen in flashbacks and as far as they knew, he was
dead. What worked about this in the original is it added to the tragedy
of Murphy's fate. But at least in this one, the family scenes felt like
a relief from all the boring corporate and political shenanigans. Most
of this movie was like watching a Sunday morning politico show! In
particular, Samuel L. Jackson has an odd and thankless role as a
conservative talking point host of a national network news show. These
scenes were a replacement for the satirical commercials that appeared
in the original. But in the original, those commercials were deftly
entertaining and funny. In this one, this faux news show is a boring
chore to sit through! Jackie Earle Haley also has an annoying role as a
military strategist who derides and trashes Murphy-Robocop every chance
he gets. I also found the actors playing the respective assistants to
Sellars and Denton to be bland and annoying, especially the nasal Jay
Baruchel as Omnicorp's top marketing person.Of course, the film throws in obligatory famous quotes from the
original, but in a very uninspiring and cheesy way. Every time I would
hear this dialog, it just made me cringe because it was so cheesy and
didn't even belong in this movie, which is too different from the
original for that to work. And, as mentioned above, there is actually
very little action, and what there is, it's confusing, unrealistic, and
cartoony, as most modern CGI-laden films tend to be. The movie itself
doesn't seem to know what it really wants to be. In trying to be
something different, it fails at being anything.
