1
The Beguiled Be Damned

*Spoiler Alert* Just in case you haven't seen this film or the original
1971 version.The coach put me on the bench because I'm batting double OO with
movies, the last string of films I viewedAll Eyez on Me,
Transformers:The Last Knight and 40 Meters Down, were side-eye inducing
without a doubt. But this weekend I saw the new Sofia Coppola film "The
Beguiled", which is based on the 1971 film of the same name starring
Clint Eastwood and Geraldine Page. Before I go all IN on the film,
here's a little tidbit about Coppola. She just won the Best Director
award at the Cannes Film Festival in May, and is only the 2nd woman in
Cannes history to win in that category. Let that sink in for a minute.
Now getting back to this film. Out of the gate, the pacing was
extremely slow. So much so, that I actually started looking for which
exit I could get to the quickest. But I'm a trooper, so I hung in
there.None of the characters were fleshed out, especially Kirsten Dunst and
Nicole Kidman's caricatures of repressed southern belles. By the way,
Kidman, Dunst, Elle Fanning and one other character in this meandering
nonsensical film, kept losing their southern accents. I could have
understood better if this were their first film (nervousness and all),
but Kidman is an Oscar winner, Dunst and Fanning have over the years,
gotten critical acclaim for their acting. They simply phoned in their
performances and looked as if they couldn't have cared any less if they
tried. Now let's get to Colin Farrell.His once promising career really hit an all-time low with this schlock.
He hardly had any dialogue and the dialogue he had, was comical and it
wasn't supposed to be. THAT'S how bad this film is. His best scenes
were off-screen after Kidman's character amputated his leg and he found
out. Why Coppola chose for the audience to hear his tirade instead of
seeing it, was puzzling to say the least. That probably would have been
great to see because Farrell is a good actor and he does a lot of his
best work when he's in meltdown on-screen. Coppola's choices with how
she shot this film left me and I'm sure so many others who've already
seen it, wondering WHY? But here's one choice she made I'm in full
support ofthe choice to NOT put the female slave character in this
film that was in the book. The Black actress who would have been cast,
dodged a bullet thank goodness. No one needs this incarnation of The
Beguiled on their acting resume. The long and short of it is
basicallyThe Beguiled didn't make any sense at all. It was a story
without any substance or direction. How Coppola won in Cannes in the
Best Director's category for THIS film is another mystery. To say The
Beguiled wasn't her best work is an understatement, and it also begs to
question the legitimacy of her winning that award.Coppola has done tons of applause worthy work such as Marie Antoinette,
The Virgin Suicides and Lost in Translation, did the judges in Cannes
see the same film as the rest of us? Did they get their eyes dilated
that day and couldn't really see the banality of this film.what
happened? As one critic noted about the film "it was so unnecessary"
and no truer words could EVER be said about this film. This was a good
idea gone horribly wrong and Coppola, the writers who helped her create
this puerile piece of tripe and the actors, had no clue how to make
this film compelling enough to where it would hold your attention and
the audience would become emotionally invested. Instead, it had the
audience holding their breath counting the minutes until the agony was
over.
