8
Okja is a satirical take on corporate capitalism.

Outright and audacious, Bong Joon-Ho's Netflix feature Okja might be
one of the funniest films about animal and industry abuse that I'll
ever see. Combining a proper sense of quirkiness and wit, the film's
clever message resonated through me even after watching it. I wouldn't
call it a piece of vegetarian propaganda, though I can see why people
find it too preachy to be entertaining. For me, this film is more of a
portrait of political cinema, on how the cycle of abuse works in the
industry, and how the corporation has two faces: the smiling, jubilant
heads they show to the public and the dirty, notorious brains they
have, grabbing for money, behind the screen.It isn't so much as an anti-meat film despite some of the plot points
presented (even with an inclusion of an Animal Liberation Front group).
The subject of the film is this super-pig hybrid which is supposed to
serve as a revolutionary change in the meat industry. Just like the
animal, this film is a cross-breed of different genres, it is a
satirical movie at first, then turning into an adventure film, and,
once it moves to the third act, becomes a poignant view of the
relationship between a young Korean girl and her pet. This clash of
genres don't always mix well, but I personally thought that the film
was really effective in trying to engage its viewers into the story and
into the journey of this young girl going through a personal
transformation as she realizes that corporations and media aren't
always as innocent as they seem. Even the design of the super-pig is
superb, it feels real and tangible and it doesn't overdo the CGI, which
is great.The performances across the board are fantastic. Among those that stand
out are Ahn Seo- hyun, who really is the underdog protagonist of the
film, Tilda Swinton, the head of the expensive industry, and Jake
Gyllenhaal, who puts sort of a quirky and charismatic magic into his
character, Dr. Johnny Wilcox. The first half of the film is excellent,
while the second half didn't really do a good job of tying all the
subplots together, so some of the narratives really fell loose during
the end. I did like what turned out of Mija and Okja, but I wanted to
see some resolution for the other narratives, especially the Animal
Rights group led by Paul Dano's character.Okja is a great spectacle, combining enough weird lopsidedness to it
while still feeling realistic in a dystopian, sci-fi, coming of age
style. I did like how Joon-Ho tackled issues of corporate capitalism,
but this film could've improved on how it transitioned between genres
and on how the tiny narrative coincided together at the end. Having
that said, Okja is still worth a watch; it is surprisingly funny,
eye-opening, and personally one of the best Netflix has to offer
currently.
