8
A very solidly made psychological thriller !!!

'The Gift' marked Joel Edgerton's directorial debut. He also wrote and
starred in the film alongside Rebecca Hall and Jason Bateman. For a
first time director, this is a very solid, admirable and promising
piece of work.Edgerton's writing is intricate. He interweaves a number of themes
together very well while creating a general structure. First of all he
uses the premise of the past actions having a huge bearing on the
present. The film delves into the theme of bullying and how much of an
impact bullying can have on the victim throughout his/her life.
Edgerton takes this concept of bullying and merges it with the work
culture in the modern corporate world. He shows how people who were
once bullies during their school days can continue with their bullying
in their professional work to be successful. Edgerton's film is a bit
of a damning indictment on corporate culture where these bullies and
their bullying get rewarded more often than not. When it comes to direction, Edgerton has a great sense of how to use an
enclosed location to amplify the tension, because at the heart of it,
'The Gift' is a thriller that thrives on the creation of tension.
Edgerton uses the house that Simon and Robyn move in to brilliantly in
the tension-filled scenes. I also noticed some subtle use of blocking
that he uses. Specially in the kitchen scenes, there is a bit of a
rectangular opening in the wall which gets uses quite subtly whenever
there is a argument happening between husband and wife. However the
moment in the film that stayed with me will be an image that comes very
early on in the film. As Robyn and Simon are checking out the different
rooms in this new house that they are considering to move into, there
is a shot where we see Robyn and Simon facing each other with a glass
sliding door separating them. Simon slides open the door and Robyn
moves out the door to join Simon oh his side and walks off. This moment
in a thematic sense, is a foreshadow for the whole film and it's a
brilliant moment.The acting is also very good. For me the best performance in the film
comes from Rebecca Hall. She shows the right amount of grace,
likability and vulnerability to portray the character of Robyn and
sells her paranoia very convincingly. Jason Bateman once again shows
that he can be so much more than just a comedic actor. He showed this
in 'Disconnect' and now in 'The Gift' he again shows a different side
to his personality. Edgerton himself plays the character who initially
seems like the typical creepy outsider who'll haunt the couple, but as
the film progresses, the film slowly reveals certain aspects of his
character and the film somewhat subverts some clichés.'The Gift' is a bit like the lighter, non-flashy, a little more
grounded version of 'Cape Fear'. It does not achieve greatness, but it
is certainly a solid, well made thriller especially considering this is
Edgerton's first outing as a director. Recommended.
