4
Burton spirals into shadows

A featurised reimagining of a TV soap opera, Tim Burton returns with a
gruesome dark comedy about a XIXth Century vampire Barnabas Collins
(Johnny Depp), the entrepreneurial creator of a fishing empire in the
town of Collinwood, who is unwittingly released from his eternal coffin
prison. His bloody urges must be quenched, hence blood splatters, but
still Barnabas is an eternal with honour and a strong attachment to
family ties. Hence he decides to live with his descendants in his
family mansion, populated by Elizabeth Collins Stoddard (Michelle
Pfeiffer), her daughter Carolyn (Chloë Grace Moretz), her
brother-in-law Roger (Jonny Lee Miller), nephew David (Gulliver
McGrath) as well as an assorted crowd of alcoholic psychiatrist Dr.
Julia Hoffman (Helena Bonham Carter), caretaker Willie Loomis (Jackie
Earle Haley) and babysitter Victoria Wnters (Bella Heathcote). The
latter bearing a remarkable resemblance to Barnabas's long departed
beloved and ultimate cause of his accursed state. To his surprise the
Collins fortune has largely fallen into disregard, whilst the town's
fishing business is currently overrun by Angelique Bouchard (Eva
Green), the witch responsible for turning him into a vampire.Admittedly an immense Tim Burton fan "Dark Shadows" is sadly his worst
picture apart from "Planet of the Apes". Possibly revisiting the same
actors has strained his ingenuity a bit, as well as caused the actors
in force to go through familiar motions. As such Johnny Depp seems like
a mold of other Depp-Burton characters, which is further not helped by
the Depp and co's dry delivery of dry humour, which makes this dark
tale thoroughly humourless. Knowing everyone in the cast is brimming
with talent makes the overall dourness of proceedings even more
striking. Depp seems emotionless beyond interest, Carter struggles to
imbue any presence, Green is an empty if pretty shell, Haley barely
registers, while Moretz comes off whiny and pretentious. The story
wiggles around trying to bring together a coherent plot, but instead
seems like a poorly glued together sequence of scenes of varying
quality, which fail to either construct a story or instill any sense of
affinity towards any on-screen character.Conversely Burton's sense of glorious Gothic atmosphere is at its best
with set designs and rummaging shots quintessential stuff and possibly
some of the best in his career. However thrown into such a detached and
pointless story it just seems like an immense waste of possibilities.
