8
A darkly funny, cohesive scare fest.

Anthology movies, whether horror or otherwise, can be a mixed bag by
nature however Tales of Halloween works well, serving up a consistent
dose of black humor, scares and surprises with no major duds in the
mix. The 10 short stories here all have a nice feeling of continuity
and it was a good idea to have them all take place in what appears to
be the same or similar kind of neighborhood. Of course it also happens
to be Halloween, the perfect night for real evil to roam free and blend
in. And trust me, it does. This suburban looking place has a really
creepy vibe where things appear somewhat normal at first glance,
idyllic even, but bubbling under the surface is all manner of
weirdness. I got a Twilight Zone kinda vibe and it also reminded me of
a series from my childhood called Eerie Indiana. There is therefore a
lot of dark twisted humor in here which is a good thing. I won't spoil
anything for you but suffice to say there are dark laughs, some well
used gore which thankfully isn't overdone, and of course some effective
scares. One of my favorites is the simple but effective Grim Grinning
Ghost. It's enjoyable watching the different techniques the directors
bring to the table and the acting is decent too. I particularly enjoyed
Pollyanna McIntosh as the the child hungry witch who had great fun with
the role. Have fun spotting some cameos too. There's even the somewhat
obligatory surreal, partially animated story here which usually
irritates me however this one was pretty funny. The last anthology I
watched was the ABCs of Death 1 and 2 which was all over the place and
lacked overall vision. Some people may prefer a more eclectic mix like
that but you generally get a few turds dragging the quality down. Tales
succeeds by keeping things tight and focused and it pays off. The last
story even attempts to tie them all together in a clever way. The 10
different directors have created a creepy and cohesive whole. Check
this out. B+.
