5
average at best, predictable

How any idiot could have the audacity to rate this movie higher than
the original rocky is so beyond baffling I have no words for my
displeasure with IMDb. creed is a predictable boxing movie with
potential for a good movie, but is ultimately diminished by a boring
plot line, a lack of special moments, and epic build up that all the
great rocky movies had. The training scene was boring the build up was
bad the plot was un realistic. not to mention they tarnished the legacy
of a great movie character in apollo creed by having an affair with his
wife, although it is necessary for the plot of the movie I don't agree
with putting the great apollo creed in that light, especially since the
rest of the movie everyone talks about him as this amazing man, how are
non die hard rocky fans supposed to buy that? a few other issues, why
did they turn Mickey's gym into the "bad guy" gym? shouldn't he have
started in a new retro gym and came to rocky to train and he took him
to Mickey's gym? That would have given all rocky fans a goose bump
moment instead they were left with nothing. the only real shocker about
this movie and (spoiler alert) is giving rocky cancer, that was
probably the most intriguing part of the whole story. Also the build up
of the leading couple was bad, i felt no connection to the two outside
of the girl having that hearing problem there was nothing interesting
about them. Finally the training scene was so stupid having all those
guys do wheele's around him as he ran was so weird and ruined the
entire scene. The fighting scenes were much more realistic and well
choreographed compared to all the other rocky's which was this movies
only really well done part, the ending of the fight is to a rocky fan,
too predictable, it was great in rocky 1 and it was a fitting end to
rocky 6, but makes no sense here and ended with the viewers questioning
what next? instead of riding off into the sunset. the acting was solid
by everyone involved but the writing was too corny to over come for the
most part. a C-level movie at best
