9
Man of Cool...

Towards the end of the movie, Henry Cavill's Napoleon Solo asks, "How's
THAT for entertainment?" (when teaching the movie's villain a lesson
about monologuing), and my answer regarding this movie would have to
echo Waverly's "very good", as this film manages to out-Bond the last
two actual Bond films. While it might be the unpopular opinion, I in
fact enjoyed Guy Ritchie's two Sherlock Holmes films and so decided to
give this a chance, knowing nothing about the original TV series this
movie was based on and going in with no preconceived notions. One thing
that sets it apart from other recent spy thrillers is it staying set in
the 60s time period and not being "modernised". From the opening "spy
jazz" music, it sets the tone for what will be a fun ride. Ritchie's
unique directing style fits perfectly with this slick/stylish film and
he proves once again to have the right touch when it comes to blending
humor with serious moments (one example being in the most morbidly
amusing torture sequence I've seen since Bond's in Casino Royale).
Whilst there are "talky" moments and occasions where the camera lingers
on a shot for a solid moment, which those with impatience may grow
restless during, there's also action (but not such that it's overkill)
mixed with humour, some emotional beats and even the odd sexy moment.
It all combines extremely well.Interestingly, as has been noted elsewhere, the main cast aren't using
their own accents for their roles, with Brit Henry Cavill playing the
American Napoleon Solo, American Armie Hammer playing Russian Illya
Kuryakin and Swede Alicia Vikander as German Gaby Teller. Cavill, who I
found dull/a bore in Man of Steel (then again, I felt that way about
the film as a whole save for Antje Traue's Faora), is far better
utilised as the suave/cool Solo here (which now brings the tally of
cool movie characters by the name of 'Solo' to TWO - the other
being...hmm, let's think...). He oozes charm, confidence, elegance -
all those words that make up the definition of 'suave' - and has some
great reactions. One scene I particularly liked was him just chilling,
with a sandwich and bottle of vino in a truck he commandeered, as his
newly assigned partner was attempting to escape some baddies in a boat.
Just when you think Solo's almost heartless, he shows he's become quite
attached to the Russian with anger management issues and does something
nice for him (when they're not exchanging spy bugs or ramming each
other through toilet stalls Casino Royale-style). As expected, they
spend the majority of the film begrudgingly working alongside each
other, bantering/arguing and showing each other up. Illya might be
almost superhuman in strength and have the fancy fence-cutting tools,
but Solo has the expertise breaking into vaults undetected...almost.
Armie Hammer's better served here partnered with Cavill than he was
with Depp in The Lone Ranger. The two play well off each other and have
a nice fun dynamic. It also must be noted (since everyone's pointed it
out regarding Tom Cruise in M:I 5) that while this film has a lot of
stunts, both Cavill and Hammer took part in them, with the latter
apparently giving his stunt double "hardly a chance to do anything
because he's out there doing it all by himself". 2015 seems the year of the Awesome Swedes, as Alicia Vikander joins M:I
5's Rebecca Ferguson in making quite the memorable impression on
screen. Apart from some rough-and-tumble with Illya, Vikander's Gaby
sadly doesn't get to kick as much butt as the aforementioned Ferguson,
but still proves hard to look away from when she's on screen (partly
because she's dressed in eye-catching 60s fashion - which, along with
the film's score/use of songs, goes a long way to creating the right
'mood' for the film - but also because she's awesome in other ways).
Her character, a mechanic at the start of the film, soon finds herself
in the thick of the action during a great chase scene featuring her at
the wheel, with Solo in the back seat and the then unknown to them
Illya in hot pursuit (a fantastic sequence, with the directing, music,
acting all flowing together seamlessly...and manual window winders used
for great comedic effect). Vikander has interesting/fun dynamics with
Cavill and Hammer, showing some different sides to her character (one
instance being in an amusing dance sequence) whilst also proving
smart/helpful and that there's a bit more to her than you might first
expect. This trio of characters are a large part of what makes the film
as good as it is. Elizabeth Debicki plays the icy cold Victoria to the
best of her ability, although there's not that much going on with her
that one wouldn't already suspect. Hugh Grant and Jared Harris are both
good in their small parts. Playing Gaby's Uncle Rudi, Sylvester Groth
is quite memorable in his role.While in his Sherlock Holmes movies Ritchie showed us in slow detail
what Sherlock was going to do to his opponents (so we could actually
*see* it/make sense of it before everything sped back up and he moved
in a blur), it's sort of the opposite here, where we flashback to
things we might've missed, little details and such, that are later
filled in for us and thus make sense. The use of split screen is also
something he seems quite fond of, walking the line between being used
effectively and overuse. It proves an extra flourish to an already very
stylised film. I enjoyed this origin film of sorts for the team made up
of our three main characters - who hopefully we'll get to see more of
in a sequel, as this ended up being a pleasantly surprising addition to
the spy film genre. For extra background info about the characters, as
well as to learn what the acronym U.N.C.L.E. stands for, make sure to
watch the stylish end credits.
