8
Bold imagination and beautiful execution of some of the most exhilarating car chases ever done on film make this the unequivocal franchise best thus far

Really, how many franchises can claim to be at their best the sixth
time round? But that is exactly where the 'Fast and Furious' team are
at with this exercise in pure exhilaration. Just when we feared that it
might be difficult to top the jaw-dropping finale in 'Fast Five',
director Justin Lin proves that he has reserved his best one yet for
what has been announced as his final outing at the helm after four
consecutive runs.Continuing what began as an invigorating transition from streetcar
racing to heist film the last time round, resident scribe Chris Morgan
ups the stakes by pitting our favourite anti-heroes against their most
dangerous opponent yet. That man is Owen Shaw (Luke Evans), an ex-SAS
officer turned mercenary who leads a nefarious gang of criminals bent
on stealing the components capable of assembling a lethal weapon to be
used by terrorists. As Tyrese Gibson's designated comic relief
character Roman describes, Shaw's guys are pretty much the evil twins
of Toretto's team, hence the return of other familiar supporting
characters like Han (Sung Kang), Tej (Chris "Ludicrous" Bridges) and
Gisele (Gal Gadot).Even as Morgan evolves the franchise, he understands that the character
dynamics have been one of the highlights of each film, and this sequel
to 'Fast Five' preserves and builds on the relationships that its
predecessor established. Besides the budding romance between Han and
Gisele (in our opinion, exotic and very nicely played) and the
deepening of familial ties between O'Conner and Toretto's sister Mia
(Jordana Brewster) with the birth of their child, there is sensibly the
return of Agent Hobbs (Dwayne Johnson), which through the last film,
transformed from dogged adversary to unlikely ally.It is Hobbs who reunites Toretto's team together to pursue Shaw - the
strategic equivalent of "fighting fire with fire" - with no less than
the promise of full pardon if they succeed. Amidst the crowded
ensemble, Morgan picks up on a new angle set in motion from the
concluding events of the last film. Once presumed dead, Toretto's
former squeeze Letty (Michelle Rodriguez) has turned up as one of
Shaw's known associates, a good part of the quieter moments of the film
spent rekindling the romance between the ex-lovers.Of course, this isn't a movie with many such moments - except for the
occasional expositions about family - so you can forgive the lack of
character development for new supporting additions Riley (MMA fighter
and 'Haywire' star Gina Carano) and Jah ('The Raid's' Joe Taslim); the
former Hobbs' new partner and the latter Shaw's kungfu-kicking
henchman. Instead, both Carano and Taslim are there to add a different
flavour of adrenaline in the form of close-combat fight scenes, and
let's just say that they each get their own sequence to show off their
respective moves.But aside from an impressive bit of tag-team ass-kicking from Toretto
and Hobbs against one of Shaw's equally hulk-sized crew (Kim Kold), the
bulk of the action is meant to unfold against broad open canvases, as
opposed to close quarters. Lin neatly - and we might add, beautifully -
choreographs three elaborate chase sequences with loads of automobile
destruction that the franchise has been known for, even more
extraordinary for how he manages to top one after the next.In chronological order, Lin begins with a grand introduction to Shaw
and his gang with an intricately staged chase down the streets of
London - although the fact that Shaw's military-styled vehicle looks
like the Batmobile from Christopher Nolan's 'Dark Knight' trilogy might
provide a hint where Lin could have gotten his inspiration. Yet any
doubts about Lin's originality are quickly dispelled once we get to the
second setpiece, a boldly imagined art of mass destruction matched
equally in its stunning execution. As the trailer has amply teased,
this one has Toretto and his crew behind the wheel in pursuit of Shaw
and his men inside a tank on a Canaries highway.The most breathtaking of all he leaves for last, which though utterly
ludicrous, represents probably one of the most awesome stunt pieces you
will see this year. Since no other film has dared to use cars to take
down a Russian cargo plane about to take off, Lin does just that. Not
only do Toretto's team face off with Shaw's mob in cars racing at near
impossible speeds, they attach their vehicles to the wings of the plane
with gleeful abandon to any thought of their own lives - though as a
warning, not all will make it through to the already announced sequel
next summer. If Lin intends to go out with a 'bang', let's just say he
accomplishes it many times over.The exquisitely staged vehicular mayhem is complemented by a firm sense
of camaraderie amongst Toretto's group. Gibson's one-liners are snappy
and more amusing than they were in 'Fast Five', and his banter with
Kang and Ludicrous not only keep the film's momentum going while the
plot pieces are put in place but also establish the kind of teamwork
necessary for the subsequent action scenes. And not forgetting the
brawny charisma of Diesel and Johnson, which enliven the film as much
as they did in the last one.If you ask us to judge this against then-franchise best 'Fast Five',
we'd say that this more than tops the fun and excitement that it
offered. There are two qualities which make or break a 'Fast and
Furious' film - how enjoyable is it to hang out with Toretto and his
crew and how thrilling are the car chases. On both counts, this sixth
entry surpasses the heights established by its predecessor, setting an
even higher bar for its successor. But if the coda before the end
credits is anything to go by, there's plenty of reason to get excited
for next summer's follow-up.
