6
Less A-Maze-ing than the First Installment

     Last year's 'The Maze Runner' was en route to a non-conformist
course off the young adult/post-apocalyptic sub-genre, delivering less
familiar but appealing deviations from the more recognizable standards
of the category. This year, 'The Scorch Trials', its sequel, keeps some
of the original beats of its predecessor, but it eventually falls into
the scope of the overly familiar trope that the first film has
defiantly avoided, which is a bit disappointing, considering the
riveting buildup they've pulled off with the first film.      Much of this film is spent in running. That doesn't necessarily
makes the film bereft of sense and extremely difficult to follow, but
that fact itself, hinders the proceedings from delivering a
comprehensible narrative. 'The Gladers', still led by Thomas (Dylan
O'Brien), are now on the run from the forces of WCKD, the mysterious
organization that placed them in the Glade. What even worse, are
Cranks, James Dashner's version of zombies, joining the pursuit. After
seemingly endless cat and mouse chases, you'd be thankful to see them
stumble upon a resistance movement, giving them a few moments to rest
(that gives you a moment to rest from following them). But that's just
a bump, because as soon as alliances are formed and a hint of the
government's agenda, is revealed, it's marathon-time again.     See, that's what sends this sequel spiraling down from the heights
the first film has soared past in 2014. It lacks genuine emotions, and
there are barely plot developments well- knitted enough to spark
interest. The marathon extravaganza hampers the characters to fully
connect with each other, and engage in a conversation, lengthy enough
to help us understand. That's maybe the problem for someone who hasn't
read the book like me, ever loaded with 'how's and 'why's, which this
sequel seems uninterested in answering, until the final chapter.That being said, there are still some few things to commend, like the
fact it has retained, if not improved, its scares and thrills. The
Grievers are now replaced by hungrier and grotesquely more vicious
Cranks, and the obstacles are updated, to provide more hair raising
creeps. The first movie's $340million worldwide cume against its
$34million budget has given this sequel a bigger financial resource for
production, and you would thank that for 'The Scorch Trials' stunningly
choreographed setpieces, looming up in and between adrenaline-
propelled pursuits. Some new characters, like Aiden Gillen's Rat-Man, are introduced, but
the rest or more than half of movie's payroll's new names, are barely,
if not efficiently, utilized. That's an inevitable additional layer to
the heap of flaws that piled up for this outing, but it's extremely
hard to completely shrug off the film, especially with an interesting,
and riproaring climax, that pretty sets the stage for the trilogy's
final phase. While that last chapter is yet to happen, let's pray for
the last film to never get split into two. 6/10
