5
Disappointing and unrealistic sequel

Liam Neeson returns to the role of Bryan Mills, a government operative
with a "particular set of skills", who gets framed for the murder of
one of his nearest and dearest - - I don't do spoilers, but the trailer
neatly does: thanks a bunch trailer! Knowing his innocence, and not
taking any s**t from anyone, Mills goes on the run to get to the bottom
of who framed him and make them pay. Hindering Mills more than helping
him is police chief Franck Dotzler (Forest Whitaker) who is not only
dogged in his pursuit of Mills as the key suspect but also extremely
smart, trying to piece together the complex three-way relationship
between Mills, his ex-wife Lenore (Bond-girl Famke Jansson) and her
current husband Stuart (MI-2's Dougray Scott). Staying just one step
ahead of the pursuing cops, Bryan's focus rapidly turns to his daughter
Kim Bauer - oh, sorry, wrong franchise - Kim Mills (Maggie Grace) and
keeping her safe from the bad guys.Taken 2 was an energetic roller-coaster of a thriller also directed by
Olivier Megaton (note: not his name at birth!) and to give Taken 3 a
bit of credit parts of this film - following a painfully slow start
with a lot of wordy exposition - live up to popcorn-munching past
glories. Some of the lines - especially those of the whip-smart Dotzler
- are entertaining. And, in particular, Neeson does a very amusing
variant of his famous 'telephone answering message' at the denouement
of the film. Apart from a damp squib of a final scene (probably hastily
written as they were in the pub) the script by the same Taken team of
Luc Besson and Robert Mark Kamen is passable.In general though, this film is all over the place.Editing is of the frenetic Bourne variety but not to the same standard:
a specific and horrible example is an early car chase which is almost
incoherent in the way it is staged and cut together. And whilst a lot
of the staged violence in the first two films was over-the-top
escapism, some of the action in this film makes no logical sense
whatsoever: I could perhaps believe that body used as a shield might
stop a handgun bullet - but a high powered sub-machine gun? Please! To top this off, two separate incidents with Mills in exploding cars
simply defy any possible suspension of disbelief: this was more like
Neeson in a film remake of the "indestructible" Captain Scarlett TV
series than a supposedly realistic film.This may be a personal view, but I have a long-standing loathing of the
movie trait of bumping off a key character at the start of a sequel
after you, as the viewer, have invested the emotional energy in the
previous film rooting for them to survive. (Alien 3 is probably the
most heinous example of this crime, with the first-reel death of the
little girl 'Newt'). Adding a final-reel tragic twist (as in Skyfall,
or The Amazing Spiderman 2) is fine in my book. But this particular
type of cheap storytelling trick just leaves a bad taste in my mouth.So go and see Taken 3 if you are happy to park your brain at the door
and buy a bumper box of popcorn, but this is far from a classic and is
a particularly stark coming down to movie-earth for me two days after
watching the brilliant "Whiplash".(If you enjoyed this review please see my other reviews at
bob-the-movie-man.com and enter your email address to receive future
posts. Thanks).
