1
Just wow

This movie left me speechless it was so bad. It took me a while to be
able to review it since it was so bad I had no idea where to begin.Well first of all a DOUCHBAG of a guy, yes I do not root for this
@ss#0le at all, pretty much uses/lies to/abuses women. Why? Because his
mother left him as a kid? REALLY? LOL MOST people have no real parents
these days. Divorce rate is 50%. You MOSTLY have 1 parent most of the
time.SO.... the writers EXPECT the viewer to root for this self-obsessed
spoiled brat!? The main character is suffering from what best can be
called "Entitled spoiled whiny stupid white boy syndrome." You know
those guys that expect the world to revolve around THEM! Wow just
disgusting.....He basically USES women as physical objects for his own gain ONLY, then
whines/rants about how he has all these problems. So....everyone should
care about you and no one else? Don't these women have problems as
well? What about their feelings? Oh right sexism....who cares, just
terrible.As always with "Entitled spoiled whiny stupid white boy syndrome" the
subject just expects everything to fall into his lap. He takes a liking
to a girl at an event, RIGHT AFTER insulting all the women at said
event to be repulsive...wow. She is in a relationship. So what does our
subject do, steal her away! Wow classic "Entitled spoiled whiny stupid
white boy syndrome!"Here is what the writers do, ACTUALLY MAKE THE WORLD REVOLVE AROUND
HIM. A woman would NEVER go with a guy that INSULTED her. They make her
bf a worse man than our main subject. And the girl that is apparently
'in love' with our subject helps him to get this girl? Wow talk about
wishful thinking. These things never happen...More gross things going on in this movie, everyone smokes...disgusting
the encouragement of MORE bad behavior. Drink all your problems
away...what? Just when it could not get any worse it does! He plans to
ruin her wedding! Wow and of course she does not go through with
it...random. Bad writing again. This whole movie is warped beyond any
realism. NONE of these characters are real. They are even worse than a
FANTASY movie. I mean like Harry Potter, at least the characters can
exist minus all the magic.... I am assuming it was movies/media like this that encouraged shooters
like Elliot Rodger to kill. "Why don't women come up to me?" He
actually said it 'happened in the movies.' How sad movies like these
exist and some people take them seriously. ENOUGH Hollywood, we see
though your (rap. Stop making TOTALLY unrealistic movies. Yes, it's a
'rom-com' but this is too big a pill of lies to swallow!
