6
Wildly Inconsistent but Bold and Often Very Enjoyable

Bong Joon Ho's follow-up to future cult classic Snowpiercer is part
sentimental childhood adventure, part hardcore animal activism movie
and part surreal R-rated dark comedy. Without giving anything away, the
first two parts work much better than the third, frustratingly so.Seo-Hyun Ahn is wonderful as Mija, Okja's loving companion, and the
first 30 minutes or so that focuses on their relationship is the
strongest material here.Unfortunately, the other performances are all over the map. Jake
Gyllenhaal gives a career-worst performance as a "wacky", perpetually
drunk, borderline psychotic television host, and he alternates between
channeling Jerry Lewis at a 10 and what I can only assume is one of the
prisoners from Silence of the Lambs. It absolutely doesn't work at all,
comedically or narratively, and he is the very, very, very low point of
an otherwise enjoyable ride, completely at odds with the rest of the
film. How the studio, filmmakers or actors watched this excruciatingly
cartoonish performance and found it remotely acceptable is staggering,
but it's a Razzie slam-dunk if I've ever seen one and it severely
detracts from the overall experience.The surreal, eccentric subplot about Tilda Swinton's character and her
corporate empire fares slightly better in that it is never
cringe-inducing, but still feels at odds with the tone of the Okja-Mija
relationship, which is perhaps the only part of the story played
relatively straight, for the better. The film doesn't dance around its unsubtle messages about animals,
factory farming and GM foods, to say the least. Some might be taken
aback or even appalled at the unapologetic hardcore animal liberation
themes, which include graphic, uncomfortable scenes of sadistic animal
abuse, and even holocaust allusions. Holocaust allusions in a kid's
adventure movie, you say? Welcome to Okja. Did I mention the film is
rated R?Still, if you can be forgiving of some truly curious decisions about
tone and plotting, you'll probably enjoy Okja - the best parts of the
film, like the heartfelt Okja-Mija relationship and a handful of
riveting, beautifully put together action sequences, are so good that
it makes the less successful choices more palatable. As of now I'd give
it a 6.5 or so, but editing out Jake Gyllenhaal's atrocious performance
would automatically bump it up a whole number.
