1
WARNING: SPOILERS For Split

I'm going to leave a couple of blank lines just in case you didn't see
the SPOILER warning...but apparently it doesn't work. First, I'm going
to say I don't particularly like horror movies, so if you're a big
horror fan, you MAY love this movie. I hate any movie where women act
stupid, helpless, slow...you get the idea. Poverty makes a woman
intolerant and if you are a strong woman, this movie is going to seem
like someone is slowly scratching their nails across a chalkboard. By
the end of the movie I was hoping the beast would kill the victim!The story line is simple. Stupid girl doesn't pay any attention to her
surroundings, stupid girl let's guy drug her and her two friends with
aerosol, guy shoves 3 stupid girls in a locked room and keeps them
there while he goes through his alternate personalities. There are
plenty of chances for girls to escape, run away, but then they get all
"oooo, I'm a girl, I can't use my brain, I have to be helpless" and
they get locked in different rooms. In the end, multi-personality guy changes into a mutant and kills his
shrink and two of the girls. When he gets to the last girl we painfully
watch as she just acts idiotic, drops shotgun shells all over, has a
chance to kill the beast by shooting him multiple times at his C1
vertebrae, but does she do it? NOOOOO, she just lets him get away. Now
there's a mutant killer running around free. At that point I was hoping a large piece of the ceiling would kill her
and put US out of our misery. Instead she continues to act stupid,
mousy, like she owes the guy because he didn't kill her. In the end,
there's a special cameo that tie's into another M. Night Shyamalan
movie. I will never go to another horror movie again.I know people will say, but it was all about a mental health issue and
it was supposed to be complex, etc. My friend wanted to share the joy
of the X-Men movies with me as I'd never seen them, so I'd watched all
of them in chronological order (including Logan). I also watch Legion
on TV, so I'm over the whole multi-personality thing. Again, if you like horror, maybe you'll like this. If you HATE watching
women acting stupid and helpless, stay away from this film. You'll be
doing yourself a favor. Buyer beware!
