8
Now, I Get It

But, it took to the final few frames.The Spectacular Now certainly wanted to be more than it was. While
interesting, well paced, well made, well acted and kept the viewer
going, it was uneven at spots, unsure of itself and took way too long
to teach the lesson it wanted you to know.I always love Miles Teller. He has this confidence and modesty, this
humor and humble attitude with each role he takes on. He's high up and
yet grounded, he's the coolest kid and still relatable. Some might see
that he's the same in every role, but I disagree to a degree. He does
have a bit of range and I think he'll only extend those lines with his
future.Here, he plays a sexually active, hard-drinking and laid way back high
schooler who gets dumped by someone he fancied more than most girls and
rebounds instantly with a less popular, more down to earth, but
gorgeous inside young lady.Tellet plays Sutter, someone who struggles but doesn't know why. He's
confident, yet wonders how he is. He moves forward but feels stuck.
Aimee, his new girlfriend, has many layers and is someone we should all
know. And yet, Sutter might be plotting something, he might be messing
with her, using her or he might actually need her.While the movie has the indie feel, the urge to give us what we always
watch these low-key high school romances for, it felt more real and
true than a lot of the same genre I've witnessed. And while I struggled
to get the "higher meaning" and WOW moment throughout, it wasn't until
the final couple of shots that tied it all in for me and held my smile
through the credits.Give it a shot, watch it through and smile like me. It is an
interesting and deeper movie than it appears on the surface* * * Final thoughts: But..Fair warning. I've seen more drunk driving
in this movie than on a full season of Cops. This is hardly ever
explored or looked down upon in this movie. Honestly, I cannot believe
how this is not condemned nor shown the true consequence of this
needless and selfish act. If one can remember how horrible this deed is
and not let these lucky characters get away without so much a scratch,
i.e. understand this is fiction without real consequences, you should
be able to still enjoy the film.
