1
A film that tries to cash in on shock without any substance.

I've read the same articles that you probably all have. Two people
fainted, some threw up. I saw this at the Chicago International Film
Festival and after the film ended there was a Q & A with the director
and producer. After being asked about the stories they pretty much
admitted that the fainting and puke were most likely due to heavy
intoxication. Which makes more sense because Bite is a movie that tries
hard to be gross and ends up feeling like a cartoon. Every surface of
the main character's apartment is covered in and drips ooze and bug
eggs...and it's not gross because nothing is done with it. They just
keep adding more and make it drip more. A few pus filled gags and some
body horror doesn't work when the make up looks as amateur as it does.
Mostly it just looks like they covered the main actress in glue and
maybe died her cheeks green. What's really disgusting is the acting and
the dialogue. I can honestly say that the performances are almost to
the level of The Room but at least The Room was so outrageous it was
hilarious in its incompetence. Bite is just bad on all levels. The
music is your most generic "score" in a can that you'd hear on any SyFy
Channel film. The cinematography and directing is paint by numbers. The
dialogue is cringe worthy, especially in its attempts at humor.
Honestly everything about the film from the title card to the closing
credits just seems so lazy and generic, like no love was put into this
film. The budget is near nothing so I can't help but feel this film was
made in hopes of cashing in on controversy and midnight screenings and
I really hope it doesn't because it doesn't deliver as a film and it
doesn't deliver as a shock film. I hate to keep harping on this but
honestly the reason why this gets a 1 out of 10 and not a 2 is because
of how atrocious the acting is. This is Elma Begovic first film and it
shows, she's almost excusable, but there's no excuse for the other
actors to be as bad as they are "Hmm I guess acting is just talking
louder than I usually do and really enunciating words" I feel like that
may have been the direction given to them. The best actor in this film
is an old man with his dog. There's a scene where the dog has to act
scared of the main actress to show that there's something wrong with
her and that dog pulls off looking terrifying, that dog needs to teach
the cast how to act. Bite is your straight to bargain bin, body horror
film that can't help but be compared to other body horror films
especially the fly. This is along the lines of something like
Contracted which I also hated but I'd say this is worse based on the
fact that Contracted at least had good performances. And the cardinal
sin that this film commits is the one sin no horror movie should ever
commit, it's not scary in any way. The director Chad Archibald seems
like a really cool guy, he was happy to be in a room full of horror
fans, he loves horror which is a real shame because he made a complete
disservice to horror. If you see this at a festival with other indie
horror films like They Look Like People, please support that instead
because this film is garbage and deserves nothing. F*** this movie.
