1
What drivel

This is one of the worst films i have ever seen. A rehash of Conan and
Gladiator. Good guy Celts are slaughtered by bad guy Romans led by Bad
Actor Kiefer Sutherland. A little boy is the lone survivor. Taken to
Londonium [ London ] and trained to become a Gladiator. Conan. He is so
good, he is sent to Pompeii to fight in the arena. On the way he comes
across a damsel in distress and helps her with her wounded horse. Love
at first sight. A Roman legion arrives led by guess who? yes bad guy
Kiefer Sutherland. Good guy Gladiator wants revenge. Bad guy Kiefer
Sutherland has his eye on the damsel in distress, who happens to be the
daughter of the headman of Pompeii, but she is in love with good guy
Gladiator. Gladiators in Pompeii were the celebrities of the period.
Not held in dungeons like in this movie. Also the citizens of Pompeii
were Romans themselves,also unlike in this movie. I won't continue with
the rest of the story, as i think you should see for yourselves. The
acting was terrible, especially by Sutherland. He started with an
American accent and then later an English accent. The bad guy
characters were like something from an English school Pantomime. As for
the disaster itself. Even with the 3d effects, it was not edge of the
seat stuff. Unlike Titanic. The story in Titanic was a romance around a
disaster, but without the 3d effects, you were glued to the screen. All
you see as soon as the eruption comes burning rocks raining down,
nothing else. Also it shows people panicking straight away, which is
nonsense, because as i was told by the guide, when i visited Pompei,
the populace had no idea of what was happening and just stood and
watched until the lava started to flow down and even then, they tried
to save their belongings. That is why so many perished and also why
Versuvius was mistaken for a mountain and there is no word for Vulcanoe
in Latin. Also once the smoke connected to to the sky, light pebbles
rained down on the city. So for a while, they thought there was no
danger. Hollywood has gone downhill in the last 20 years. They blame
DVDs for people not going to the cinema, so they make more films in
3d.The standard of acting has gone downhill. There are no stories to
their films any more, so they put all these effects in to compensate
for this. If you want to see a good DVD about Pompei buy the DVD BBC
documentary drama with Tim Piggot Smith called Pompeii The Last Day. On
with it is the story about the Colosseum, called Colosseum A Gladiators
Story.If you want to see a good fictional story centering around the
disaster, get the TV Miniseries The Last Days Of Pompeii starring
Lawrence Olivier, Anthony Quayle, Ernest Borgnine, Barbera Carrera and
a host of others. I hope i have not bored you with this review, but i
don't like to waste money and i am sure you don't.
