7
Good and entertaining... but lacks the novelty of the first.

A Dame to Kill for is by no means a boring or bad film. It succeeds as
a satisfying sequel to the far more novel and perhaps stronger Sin
City... it is bloody, violent, beautifully made, with cool deep voices,
nudity and clearly fitting into the film noir genre. Where it falls
short is in the charactersationssliding a bit, the strength of two
original stories, the change in actors and the gap between the first
and second film. There is also a desperate need for more iconic moments
which the Sin City comics and the film has plenty of, but they never
really come in A Dame to Kill for. The characters seems less edgy, less strong charactered and some
despite being far more stereotypical carries less of a punch.
Especially Marv and Dwight who are the central characters fall a bit
short. With Dwight almost feeling detached from the story he is the
centre character of. I never thought I would find myself ever thinking
that Owen over Brolin. Rourke however seems to have lost some of his
edge again, but still causes plenty of mayhem. The new original story
lines is probably as good as the rest, but it feels like we never get a
very satisfying end out the first one of it especially because it plays
as probably the most straightforward story with less of the iconic art
work or stunning scenes put in it, it relies on Gordon-Hevitt's
abilities more than anything else. The second original story however
fairs better mostly due to Alba's dancing and Rourke's brute. If one
has not recently seen Sin City and goes to see this it can be a bit
hard putting things into place in it's sequel... most people benefit
from having seen Sin City recently in order to truly enjoy the film's
anachronistic narrative. It is an awesome film, I will not argue against that, and it does give
people more of what they want from Sin City. And there is maybe couple
of camels to swallow. But I think in time when seen in union with it's
predecessor and sequel(s) it will come out stronger than it might
appear now.I saw the 3D version and surprisingly it actually works well for the
film, although I am sure the film would be just as good in 2D alone. It
is worth seeing in the cinema, it has the scale/action/importance and
beauty to justify that. It will not be remembered for it's visuals as
much as Sin City, but it will be recognised for how it fits into the
Sin City style.
