9
A soul's odyssey

Cloud Atlas is unlike its contemporaries at the multiplex. It tells a
big story in an engaging, difficult fashion. It has big names and a big
budget. But it also is thematically dense it wants to tell you
something through plot, characters, dialogue and symbols. Cloud Atlas
is also thankfully a very enjoyable film, much longer and denser than
much of what is available today. "Ambition" defines this film. In just under 3 hours, six radically different stories are told, and
they appeal to a broad audience: a 19th century tale of unlikely
brotherhood, the letters of a gay composer to his partner in the
1930's, a San Francisco- set conspiracy in the 70's, A hilarious
account of an old publisher's woes. A Blade Runner-esque clone's
struggle for freedom, and the survival of a tribe after 'The Fall'.
Genre conventions are toppled, as these stories with different tones
are juggled in short intervals, leading from comedic highs to shocking
drama in minutes.But as with the characters, these plots are connected thematically, and
clever wordplay and visual imagery links the stories, such as the end
of a monologue referencing "the gates of Hell" and cutting to a shot of
the gates of a building that, for Cavendish at least, is the gates of
Hell. Each of the stories has strengths, a few have faults, but
together the medley is incredible. I found that while the earliest two stories began slowly and plainly,
they developed very well and provided fantastic drama, especially the
1849 story. The Nuclear thriller was strong, Halle Berry is great and
there are some real twists, and I also loved the 'Dirty Harry' and
'China Syndrome' vibes, but comedy bled into it from the 2012 story
which diminished the climax. The 2012 story is hilarious, and its first
scene is a standout; Tom Hanks is incredible as Dermot Hoggins.
Although while the story is interesting, it doesn't fit quite so well
thematically- it's almost too light. Listening to the 'Cloud Atlas
Sextet' fits with all the stories, but can't resonate with Cavendish's.
The future Korea is visually stunning and communicates its themes well,
certainly the darkest plot, but the action can get over the top (Yes, I
know who directed this) and there are some horrible clichés. But that
scene of horrendous dialogue, the weakest in the film, can't derail a
great piece. Lastly is the bleak, Hawaii- set post-apocalyptic story.
It was my favourite, possibly because I'm a sucker for anything
involving apocalypse. But Hanks and Berry are fantastic again, the
barbarians are menacing and scary, and the story is cool. It also
concludes the film perfectly.I've only talked about the plot! The actors really steal the show. In
the credits, each actor's name is placed with a clip of every one of
their characters everyone in the theatre stopped and stayed. People
play characters you had no idea they played. A few highlights:
Sturgess' lawyer and the slave Autua, Frobisher, Hugh Grant's sexist
nuclear boss, Cavendish and Hanks' Hoggins. Doona Bae as Somni and Hugo
Weaving's "Old Georgie" round it out- the latter is truly a demon. Much
credit has to go to the makeup, literally making actors disappear into
their roles. There is a huge number of transsexual and even
race-bridging roles- it's worthy of note that Lana Wachowski was at one
point Larry Wachowski. Also deserving of praise, and possibly Oscars is
the large scale visual effects that cover hundreds of years and look so
believable. Sound quality is top-notch as well, listening to Old
Georgie is chilling, as is the vision of Korean diners, and well... the
whole future.But all this plot serves a purpose, and Cloud Atlas intends to tell you
things. Freedom is possibly the biggest theme, as well as the idea that
our actions affect others greatly throughout time: we're part of a
large human network. Really though there's so much to talk about you
should just see the film. There are small stumbles every so often, but
the structure hides them very well. No one story takes more time than
others, no one character takes more time than others, and the structure
and pacing drives the film forward briskly. It's a shame this film
hasn't been better received commercially, because it's a phenomenal
achievement, interesting sci-fi and drama, and as of now, the best film
I've seen in 2012. 8.8/10
