1
What is the director's obsession with Spaghetti?

Full disclosure, I'm a lesbian. My girlfriend and I waited months to
see this film. We were so ready to love it. There are not too many
lesbian films where no one dies, goes back to men, or goes insane at
the end. We WANTED to add this to the tiny list of films that we enjoy
that depict relationships that look like ours. And we can't. I hate
this film because it betrayed my expectations. I wish I hadn't built up
my hopes so much. But enough of my dashed dreams, on to the problems.Problems: 1) Adele goes back to a man, cause her girlfriend isn't blah blah blah
blah. Congratulations, we have stereotype number one! All men assume
that lesbians go back to men! Can I start assuming that all men go back
to men after they date a horrible woman? 2) What the hell was with the obsession with Spaghetti? I admit, I
stopped watching after hour one. I did the dishes, I wandered around
the house, I closed my eyes for a cat nap, but EVERY time I looked at
the screen someone was shoveling spaghetti in their mouths. I wish the
director would just address his deep, dark desire to film tentacle porn
and stop pussyfooting with the spaghetti. 3) What do you want to know after Adele gets thrown out of the house
for cheating? Do you, as a vaguely interested party, want to see how
her family reacts? They've been pretty blasé about the whole lesbian
thing so far. Don't you want to know how her family supports her, if
they support her, if they say, "So how about that guy you screwed? Is
he relationship material?" All these questions will be IGNORED by the
film so that you can watch Adele wander around her kindergarten room
moping. Because watching this girl mope for the last two hours hasn't
been enough! This is not the only incident where the director made a
clear and conscious decision to ignore the interesting parts of a human
drama to focus on moping, but I simply cannot dredge through my memory
to think of all the others.4) Of course we were ready for some amazing sex cause everybody was
talking about it! Halfway through the interminable scene, I put on the
the YouTube reaction video of a Cuban grandma watching the sex scene.
She was more genuine. 5) Obsession 2: Butts! Statue butts, girls' butts. Everyone else
noticed this. I'm not going to dwell. 6) No lesbians do not attempt to f*ck each other in restaurants. Sure,
just like heterosexual couples, there may be some bathroom sex here and
there, but for god's sake! WHO attempts to finger bang their girlfriend
in a restaurant??? That was so awful. 7) Lesbians react to Blue is the Warmest Color Sex Scenes said it best:
there's nothing new about guys paying straight women to f*ck each
other. Good points: I'm sorry, I just can't think of any.
