9
First loves, great loves, family love, and love-of-books love

In the Borgens family, the acclaimed author father, the college student
freshly published author daughter, and the socially awkward high-school
student son, also a writer to-be, are all stuck in problems of love.
Samantha's story was the most relatable for me. You could understand
how she is afraid of getting hurt by love, and how the plan she has
revised to protect herself seems to make perfect sense, while at the
same time you know she is not gonna be able to go through with it.
Rusty's story, although not particularly new, is very well-written and
Nat Wolff really brings it to life. The father's story was for me the
least intriguing, but still okay.The cast is top-notch. Kinnear and Connelly, great. Logan Lerman. Yeah,
he's golden, end of story. If you want more on that I suggest reading
some review on "the perks of being a wallflower" (and btw that's
another film to watch if you liked this one). Nat Wolff was amazing, a
promising new talent, and I am waiting to see what he does next! And
finally, Kristen Bell has a small role, and she is funny as always, a
great addition for a bit of a comic break to the film's stream.In the meantime, the love of books is perpetrating the film. It makes
you wanna go and get lost in a book, it reminds you of that feeling
when you read something you love, something that completely absorbs
you. The little written lines in the character introduction part were
also a nice touch.The movie has a number of unrealistic moments, which other reviewers
properly mention. It's just that... I didn't really care much about
those little flaws. This is not about whether you are too young to be a
published author at the age of 19, or whether it's feasible to carry
around an amount of pot enough to make a salad. Realism was not the
point. Plus, as Sam says, there are the realists and there are the
romantics, and I guess this film is a romantic's work. Just the ending
was a bit too happy for my taste - after all, I remain a cynical
realist despite loving this film...Overlook the mediocre ratings, trust that Kinnear and Connelly chose
well, and watch this movie. It's simple, it's sweet, it's good stuff.
