4
Belongs to the cottage industry of Before Sunrise imitators

There's a big problem with Chris Evans' debut. That problem is cell
phones. To rewind a little bit: the film is about an incredibly handsome but
sad busker (Chris Evans) working at Grand Central Terminal in NYC.
Playing for the late crowd he stays long enough to see a woman (Alice
Eve) rush out to catch the last train out. Her cellphone smashes as it
falls out of her bag as she passes by. He does the right thing and
tries to return it to her which is easy as she's missed the last train
out. And she's been robbed. And being a poor busker despite his valiant
attempts to be gentlemanly and help this woman this man, Nick, has no
money. Also HIS cellphone is dead! And on it goes...It is perfectly plausible in real life that these inconveniences would
pile up. In a movie it begins to stretch the boundaries of
plausibility, especially since any person watching the film will know
it's a romance and that these two attractive strangers will now be
doomed to wander the city alone at night together slowly confessing
secrets to one another and falling in love... Because yes, this belongs
to the little cottage industry of Before Sunrise imitators. Before
Sunrise for those not in the know, is a delightful little walking and
talking movie from 1995. It also features two young gorgeous
heterosexuals walking around a city (Vienna) and falling in love.
Unfortunately for all the little imitators that have cropped up since,
Before Sunrise is not as simple as it looks. It features two actors
with great chemistry, a really genius script, and it takes place in the
90s when cellphones, credit cards and access to the internet weren't as
ubiquitous as they are now. Unfortunately for Before We Go it really pales in comparison to a movie
made nearly 20 years previous. Not only does the script not really ever
get a handle on the cell phone issue (and I was reminded while watching
this of Fort Tilden an excellent contemporary film about getting lost
in a city where the characters have access to cellphones and ready cash
and still manage to screw up their lives in increasingly hilarious, and
yes plausible, ways) but the dialogue isn't that great either the
reveal of why Alice Eve's character had to catch that train is dumb.
The solution to her problem, when it comes, is dumb AND EASY. Chris Evans fans will be pleased though. The guy has charisma in spades
and once Alice Eve's character gets over her fear that this guy Nick
might be a creep rapist stalker, he's able to romance her with
seductive looks. If you find Evans attractive and are willing to
suspend your disbelief about how absurd a situation can get then by all
means, watch this movie and allow yourself to be seduced by the
romance. For everyone else it should be a hard pass.
