1
Leaves a lot to be desired

MAY CONTAIN SPOILERSI don't usually do reviews but this film was such a huge disappointment
I couldn't fight it anymore. The original movie was so good and,
considering this is the exact same movie, there was really not much
that could go wrong. In theory of course, because in reality the final
result is just soulless. Everything feels fake. From Emma Watson's
acting to the cgi and the props. I love Emma Watson but in this film
she is just playing herself trying to play Belle. To be fair though, no
one in the film actually manages to instill the characters with the
same emotion and personality as the original except maybe Josh Gad.
Luke Evans is very good but his character is written as a villain from
the start, while in the original he evolves from slightly annoying to
"evil". Which brings me to my next point: the awful writing. The film
treats the audience like we're stupid and needs to explain everything
verbally instead of just letting things show through the action. The
characters are one dimensional and don't change as the story unfolds.
Gaston is the villain. The Beast is just a misunderstood soul from the
beginning despite the prologue telling us otherwise. Even his bad
temper is watered down. The writers had already the script written for
them, all they had to do was add a few more lines here and there and
create two or three scenes that would blend in seamlessly with the
original (since, I repeat, they chose to use almost word for word the
1991 script with minor changes). Well, the new dialogue feels very
wooden and unnatural. The new scenes add nothing to the story and, even
though the creators try to answer some questions we have from the
original, in the end they create new plot holes that go unanswered. I
miss the subtlety of the 1991 film in which every expression, every
line and every pause added something either to the progression of the
story or the characterization of the heroes without anything feeling
forced. I keep mentioning the original a lot but that is because this
movie has nothing new to offer really, so I can't fully separate it
from the 1991 one. In the end, what annoys me the most is that the 2017
remake had great potential to become a new classic and stand on its own
had it been handled a little differently and not with a rushed "let's
make some good money" mentality. There are very few good things about
this movie, one of which is the music which is simply magical and
manages to convey all the emotions the actors can't. Then there is the
ending (after the transformation) where there is a more realistic touch
as the villagers remember their friends-relatives that work at the
castle and are finally reunited. Overall, despite the enormous hype,
the movie just makes the original stand out even more as a timeless
film that won't be surpassed by another adaptation any time soon.
