3
Another Potential Epic is Yet Another Epic Failure

Two years ago, I eagerly anticipated the release of the remake of one
of my favourite films of all time, "Clash of the Titans." What I was
given was a mess of a film in bad post-production 3D which needlessly
messed with the original story of Perseus and his defeat of the
Kraken...and turned my beloved Pegasus black.When a follow-up was announced, being a huge fan of all Mythology, even
if it is tweaked for Hollywood's sake, I felt they could only improve
on a second attempt after the epic failure of the first go-around.I was wrong."Wrath of the Titans" picks up a decade later with Perseus raising his
only son alone after dismissing Zeus' offer of riches and power after
his heroic defeat of the Kraken and the unexplained death of his wife
(who I would have thought would have been Io but should really be
Andromedabut remained unaddressed). As mortals lose their faith in the
gods, the gods in turn lose more and more of their power and,
consequently, the walls which imprison the Titans in Tartarus are
weakening and the end of days is imminent.Zeus turns to his son to warn him of the threat and ask his help, but
Persues declines.That is until he learns from Poseidon that Zeus' other son, Ares,
turned against him and led him into a trap in Tartarus and Zeus is
imprisoned by Hades , transferring all Zeus' power to Kronos, the
leader of the Titans and Zeus' father, in exchange for immortality.And thus, Perseus learns that in order to save humanity, he must rescue
his father and defeat Kronos and teams with Poseidon's demi-god son
Agenor and Queen Andromeda who, as I mentioned, by all accounts and
purposes, should already be his wife.The story itself has much potential, but sadly, the execution just
falls flat. With far too many convenient twists and escapes, even by
Mythology's standards, I found the events extremely difficult to
swallow, the narrative being even too ridiculous for the likes of me.
The whole film just sort of stumbles along like an adventure in special
effects, with the actual storytelling as somewhat of a secondary
element. Something which is becoming far too common these days.Even though it has just been a couple of years since Sam Worthington
was thrust into the spotlight in "Avatar" and the last Titan film, he
looks like he has aged two decades, having lost all of the sexy,
hard-bodied spunk that is befitting a demi-god. He was a relatively
unconvincing Perseus the first time around, and the sequel just
confirms the notion.Everyone else's performance, including the return of Liam Neeson as
Zeus, Danny Huston as Poseidon and Ralph Fiennes as Hades, are just
fine, but acceptable performances in a mediocre film hardly lessen the
disappointment.After having been so mortified by the disrespect "Clash of the Titans"
showed the original production, one wouldn't think it could get worse.
But at least that film aroused some sort of emotional reaction in me.
The sequel didn't even manage to do that. It simply disappointed. No
doubt I may be first in line for the third installment, already
currently in pre-production, as hope always prevails...but that may be
tentative while what will most assuredly be mediocre box office could
throw a spanner in the works.But hey, at least the 3D was better.
