4
Scares over sense.

Insidious: Chapter 2, the sequel to the 2011 hit Insidious and directed
by the same guy, James Wan. This is...um...less than the first...but
I'm not sure if that makes it good...for me at least.So, here's the story: Immediately after the events of the first one,
the father named Josh, played by Patrick Wilson rescues his son, who
possessed a supernatural ability to travel through different worlds. He
came across the dark spirit world, inhabited by demons. After Josh gets
his son out, it turns out he was possessed by a woman in black.
Possessed, Josh kills Elise without anyone noticing. Josh's wife,
Renai, played by Rose Byrne, tries to defend her husband that he wasn't
responsible. While that's going on, strange activities occurs just like
in the first and the scares are placed here and there for the audience
to jump.So what are the problems with this movie? Well first off, Josh being
released after being suspected in murder? Shouldn't he be in custody or
something? Like being held? If he's a suspect in murder, he shouldn't
be around people. I know it's dramatic irony, but this is still weird.
Aside from that, there are some things that aren't explained and they
make no sense. I won't say anything here, but...needless to say, it's
pretty hard to swallow.The scares...they're a bit step back from the previous film. They're
not bad, they're just not as subtle as the first. Also another problem.
In the first film, they follow the "rule of Jaws" when they don't show
the monster until the last third. Here, they show it no time flat. And
they jump scares in this movie can be a little too over the top silly
and I daresay-- pretty damn cheesy. In fact, that's what James Wan's
biggest weakness. His scares are scary, but they are a bit "in your
face". His other film, The Conjuring, worked so well because not only
were there jump scares, but there were a lot of moments when you can
just take in the unsettling atmosphere. James Wan does do that in his
movies and he did in this, but not as much as The Conjuring did.With all these problems, does that this movie is bad? ...not
necessarily. The good stuff are the performances, the twists and how
the plot explains more. But to be honest, the twist raises more
questions. Never answered, of course, how the twists play out and that
it does answer some questions from the first film is pretty
interesting.So, yeah. It's a mixed bag to say the least. It's not good, but it's
not terrible. The first beats the sequel by a lengthy distance, but the
good stuff is pretty satisfying. If you want to see it and have a jump
scare fest, you won't be disappointed. I probably would see it again if
I'm bored, but go ahead and see it and give your own take on it.
