4
Started so promisingly too

The snowy white landscapes of Oslo seemed like the perfect setting for
chilling crime thriller The Snowman, a film based on Jo Nesbø's novel
of the same name. The trailers promised so much and with a lead actor
like Michael Fassbender on board, it had the potential to be one of the
most intense films of the year. When Harry Hole (Michael Fassbender) is called to investigate a string
of murders where the killer leaves snowmen as a calling card, he must
delve into past cases to make a connection before the killer strikes
again.For a crime thriller to work, it must grip the audience right through
to the end. The first half of The Snowman had my full attention, unsure
of where the story was going to go or what would be revealed however,
as the film drew on and revelations were made, it utterly lost me due
to how lazy it became. They storytelling that felt so strong in the
first half was totally absent in the second, none of the revelations as
impactful as they should have been and the ending coming so abruptly. I
hate the fact the film didn't seem to wrap up this story properly
before closing with such a sequel baiting final scene.As with Tomas Alfredson's previous films, the pacing is pretty slow
however, unlike Let the Right One In and Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy, the
consistence in quality isn't maintained throughout. Half an hour before
the end I was ready for it to finish. Such a shame because this had
such potential to be such a creepy thriller, instead the snowmen left
as calling cards coming across as more comical than anything.Coming to the performances, The Snowman isn't exactly let down at all.
It's just they feel a little uninspired considering some of the actors
working in the film. Michael Fassbender is one of the best actors
working today but even if he looks as if he's given up on the film
towards the end. I'm still waiting for a Fassbender performance as good
as Steve Jobs, and that was two years ago now. While I don't think
anyone gave a bad performance, the likes of Rebecca Ferguson, Val
Kilmer, Toby Jones and J. K. Simmons were left a little too underused
for my liking.A film of two halves for me, starting so promisingly before fizzling
out to such an unsatisfying finale, The Snowman is rather annoyingly
one of the biggest disappointments of the year.
