10
Great and Realistic Independent Drama

Stuck in Love follows William Borgens (Greg Kinnear), an author who is
still wallowing through his separation from his wife Erica (Jennifer
Connelly). William and Erica's children; Samantha (Lilly Collins) and
Rusty (Nat Wolff) are also aspiring writers going through different
phases of love. Samantha resents her mother and refuses to believe in
love, even when she is being pursued by hopeless romantic Louis (Logan
Lerman). Rusty, also a believer in love, tries to pursue his crush Kate
(Liana Liberato). During the course of the film, the characters begin
to learn lessons about love and the long road called life.Stuck in Love is a marvelous independent drama that deals with the
different dynamics of love and how it affects us all. The whole cast
does an excellent job with the material and really bring the characters
and their emotions to life. Greg Kinnear turns in a great and sometimes
comedic performance as we watch his character struggle the line of
believing in love and moving on. But the most impressive performances
come from our younger stars. Lilly Collins most notably turns in the
strongest performance as a young woman who is struggling between
different types of love, the ability to return love with her pursuer
Louis, and the love her mother is trying to earn back. Logan Lerman
returns with as much of a charming performance as he showed in The
Perks of Being a Wallflower as the boy who is trying to win Samantha's
heart. Nat Wolff plays a similar character who is trying to win over
his own crush, despite the obstacles that may come in his way. What
makes Stuck in Love so different from other love stories is that it's
not just some cheesy romantic story, it deals with the different
dynamics of love and heartbreak that we all will go through in life.
The script and the actors do an incredible job of bringing this all to
reality in a way that we can really feel what they are going through
and give us something to relate to. My rating: 10/10
