1
Spoiler alert and No! Don;t watch this movie!

OK, so this is my first time writing review since I saw there are so
many irrational positive reviews out here. If you want to watch horror
movie with crazy octopus-like alien, then it is fun.If you have brain
and you would like to think, then this movie is so illogical and
absurd. Spoiler warning: The movie starts pretty slow, and the scenes
are very beautiful I have to say. Then a biologist finds this
Carbon-based new life.It is important to keep in mind that this is
carbon-based! This monster grows surprisingly fast, as a scientist, I
would like to poke it with kitchen gloves and electricity to make it
like me haha. They even named this monster "Calvin". So Calvin breaks
his "father's" hands and eats another astronomer even it's under
flame??? (Yeah, even I'm carbon-based I'm totally fine with fire) .
Fancy spaceship of course doesn't have button to shut down air vents at
once obviously, and the poor lady who decides to fix the connection
between earth gets caught from Calvin. She decides to sacrifice herself
just before she can get back, and Calvin can stay alive without Oxygen
and move swiftly in the space. Then Calvin's back! He's back from no
where??? His father biologist sees him but say nothing until every one
is sealed in one small room and sees Calvin's eating his father's
leg???? I might understand you think "Calvin" is your son, this is the
way he can survive, but do you remember you Japanese astronomer friend
just got a real new-born back on earth....?? Every one escapes and that
Japanese guy dies.. Finally, only two people left. They start to take
and cry.. wait... there are two escape pod...??? Interesting. And one
guy tries to sacrifice himself and bring Calvin to deep space and let
the lady go back to earth. Of course, of course, even though you figure
out light attracts Calvin, you still want to bring him with you but not
leave him here and use there two escape pods to go home. Even at this
point, I'm still fine with this scripts. Until the director tries to
make people think the lady got on earth and the guy brings Calvin into
deep space and dies. In the end, somehow their escape pods go
oppositely as they wish, and Calvin surprisingly knows how to drive
escape pod??? He leaves his food alive and control the astronomer's
hands then safely lands on earth?????? Of course, this high technology
escape pod can be opened outside by some random fishers, even though
they see there's a gigantic alien inside from window. The end. What can
I say?
