6
Haven't I seen this one before?

Southpaw is a movie about the successful boxing champion Billy Hope
(Jake Gyllenhaal) whose life begins to fall apart because he cannot
control his high temper.To begin with, the story line is simple and not very original. The
protagonist who has everything suddenly loses everything and needs to
find a new way to win it all back. Haven't I seen this before? And I'm
not even talking about movies in general. Actually, one can find boxing
movies with a very similar story (for instance Rocky II or Raging
Bull).The characters depth is nothing near to the ones we see in "Raging
Bull" or "Warrior" (movies in which motivations and reasons of
characters are more complex and interesting). In Southpaw, the
characters lack depth, thus they become a tad boring. Personally, I
felt like flat character design was one of the main issues of this
movie. Furthermore, you always felt like someone already told this
story in a much better way. Why should I waste my time to watch a poor
remake? Naturally, this sounds harsh and may be a little exaggerated,
but I honestly believe this is the major aspect of the movie that
annoyed me – unoriginality and the incorporation of many clichés.I would still recommend you this movie, only because of two people:
Jake Gyllenhaal and Forest Whitaker. These two tremendous actors made
this movie not a total waste of time. As aforementioned, Gyllenhaal
plays in the lead, portraying the struggling fighter Billy Hope. It is
a stupendous performance from a brilliant actor. Although the character
is partly despicable and should be hated, one does still feel for him.
That is the work of a master in his craft. Academy Award winner
Whitaker plays Tick Wills, an older gym owner who later becomes Billy's
mentor and new coach after his demise. The relation between those two
characters is the best one in the whole movie. What happens when chaos
and fury meet experience and discipline? These two spectacular actors
were the absolute highlight of the movie, which makes it a bit
frustrating to see so less of them on screen. The filmmakers rather
concentrated on Billy's relation with his daughter than on the one I
found deeply entertaining.This leads to my other point. I found that the role of Oona Laurence
was a miscast. She plays the daughter of Billy and is devastated after
a certain incident. Things between her and Billy do not work quite well
(I can just recall, "Haven't I seen this before?") The only scene of
this side story that touched me was when Billy got slapped in the face
by his own daughter. That's it, nothing more. Moreover, I did not like
Laurence in the movie. No offense, but she was not very convincing and
rather annoying.On the other hand, I thought that the rest of the cast delivered.
Rachel McAdams and even 50cent impressed me – gorgeous casting.All in all, the movie was nothing exceptional or anything to remember.
I think "average" sums it up pretty well. Southpaw did not quite live
up to my high expectations, although having some great actors on board.
What you see was nothing original or mind-blowing, it felt like a bad
"Raging Bull" spin off. I can still recommend the movie to people who
love sport movies in general and want to see some great acting.
Otherwise, leave it and don't watch it. 6/10
