4
Lack of Depth Doesn't Feel Like Jack Ryan

This reboot feels like a knockoff similar to A Good Day To Die Hard.
Both have chase scenes in Moscow and both were made relatively cheaply,
well this one even more so. What disappointed me most was the attention
to detail that Clancy was always famous for. A great deal is smoothed
over to forward the plot in it's brisk pace. Previous Ryan films were
capable of bringing depth to the peril and stakes as the players made
their moves. Where previous Ryan films had large political stakes that
brought real tension, the stakes here seem to be more economic than
fear for great loss and limb, although the third act implies some
mayhem. In general you can't really compare this cheap knockoff to a
minor tent pole film that has a big enough budget to have a larger
scope and sexier action scenes. The car chase is too generic in jump
camera shots, etc. to feel much tension. But other spy thriller moments
do thrill, so I will give this film enough credit to deliver on some of
the goods. Another unflattering comparison is the Bourne Legacy reboot.
It also suffered from lack of budget for a decent action punch.Pine as Ryan is less inspired for me. Perhaps because his face has been
seen quite a bit lately, or his characterisation has less depth. Same
goes for the mentor character played by Kevin Costner. There is too
little meat to chew on. A better move would have added a few more
wrinkles (not necessarily plot twists), such as more than just a few
shots of the terrorism plot brewing in the United States. I would
support a sequel to this reboot if a better budget with some more meat
pieces, and a story that is fleshed out better. I believe director
Branagh is a capable but not exceptional director, and some scenes
slightly miss the mark. The overall slick look that is also a trademark
to Ryan films is missing here, although the production design is not
lacking. My final analysis is that this is a film not based on a Tom
Clancy novel that is an average of 900 pages of background, substance,
and real drama. That lack of depth makes this thriller too transparent.
