4
Immensely Disappointing Film That shouldn't Be Praised For It's Mediocrity.

I have to say. I was more eager than ever to see this film. The
trailers were great (if not slightly spoiler filled) I was super keen
on seeing Danny McBride playing a serious role, and I was more than
eager to see something that would pull the Alien up from the nose dive
it have become. But when the credits rolled, oh man was I disappointed. This movie is
actually a massive step down from Prometheus.The problems with this film are vast, but some struck me more than than
others. For one, it actually felt amateur. Considering Ridley Scott
made the iconic origin film, it's hard to understand how tragically he
has failed to grasp what makes the Alien film great. There is no slow
burn atmosphere here. No tension build up. No creepiness to the
xenomorph itself. It just fails to do anything that the predecessors
do. The film also makes the same mistakes as Prometheus did, by giving the
characters terrible motives or at best, strange decision making
capabilities. Nothing really makes sense. There are so many times where
you wonder to yourself, 'if this is suppose to be such an important
mission, why are they making such ridiculous choices?'My next big gripe is with the visual effects. They are awful. Again, a
huge step down from Prometheus (which at least had that going for it).
The action scenes with the xenomorph were spastic and often hard to
follow.Characters were plain, story was beyond boring, plot was ill thought
out, and the only likable character who makes sense is the villain!It just failed overall to make a decent movie, and I am tired about
giving movie justice just because 'at least the effects were good' or
'at least the sound was great'. If the film can't stand up with its own
story, then it is a bad film. And as sorry as I am to say, this is a
bad film. Neill Blompkamp should be handed the reins, as at least he has vision
which could benefit the franchise.
