10
Sublime cinema - like Hithcock with the extremity of Oldboy and the sexual candour of Blue is the Warmest Colour.

I consider Park Chan-Wook to be among the greats of cinema, alongside
Scorsese, Tarantino, Fellini, Truffaut, Coppola, Tarkovsky and Nolan.
So I had huge expectations going in, and boy, they were met. TheHandmaiden is a masterpiece in pretty much every sense. It is
visually exquisite, Costumes, production design, cinematography, music,
all combine to create a lush vision of Japan-occupied Korea in the
1930s. Park Chan-Wook is a visually meticulous filmmaker and no film so
far of his has showcased his knack for visual storytelling better than
the Handmaiden. I went into this film totally blind, which I honestly
recommend all people doing, because the plot itself unfolds in such a
beautifully engineered fashion. My best description of the film is a Rebecca-like Hitchcockian thriller
with the extremity and depravity of films like Oldboy and Battle
Royale, and the humanistic sexuality of Blue is the Warmest Colour. All
actors are stunning in this film. The two women share an honest, tender
romance that is both passionate and moving, with a refreshing candour
about the nature of sexuality that is almost never seen in Hollywood
productions. The Count is an incredibly charismatic performer who
remains appealing despite his many despicable acts. But as always with a Park Chan-Wook film, the real star is the director
himself. The way in which this story is crafted is nothing short of
engrossing. The outrageous, depraved, sexy, fascinating plot is crafted
through multiple perspectives, dashing across back and forth in time,
to masterfully reveal key plot points across a never less than
spellbinding two hour run time. Some would say the film is slow, but I
felt as though the extended running time worked in the film's favour,
in order to build character to the extent that the finale for the film
feels momentously epic, a real feat considering the movie showcases
only four key characters. I was utterly engrossed by this beautifully made film.
