1
I prefer the movie "Ginger Snaps"

Now I've said in other reviews that I don't mind gross, bestiality,
disturbing in films I watch. As long as it's not gross or sexual just
for shock factor. However this was the most boring, unsexy, uncool,
stupid movie I've seen in a while. I went from excitedly clicking on it
and downloading and nibbling fries, to wondering what I'm gonna wear
tomorrow. Once she started getting cannibalistic and going ballistic,
ironically the movie got boring, haha. I'm sure that's when the movie
was supposed to get exciting but I don't understand what her problem
is, really. An hour, 15 minutes in, with 20 mins left, I don't
understand yet why she's eating meat so obsessively, particularly raw
unclean meat, and human meat? Other than the cliché insufficient
excuse: "because she's losing it." OK, I get that, but WHY. I can infer
all day, but what about doing your job as a script writer and filmmaker
to answer every question your movie raises? What about an end goal? Was
the purpose just to subject me to images that would damage my psyche?
Why would someone do that? I mean, you learn how to answer a thesis in
high school...maybe these filmmakers didn't go to high school.See there's a ton of similar movies, even in France, about carnivorous
self-harm and the pathology behind it is explored in the film. Even if
the movie sucks in general the main idea was addressed. Whether the
person hates their self, is being pressured, or is trying to get closer
to their self, or is traumatized, or changing into a freaking werewolf
like in Ginger Snaps, the reason someone breaks down mentally to the
point where they start picking at their skin like it's infected is
explained. Here, I don't know, the only explanation was from the
university nurse or someone: "It must be food poisoning." So this movie
is basically exaggerated vegan propaganda, or anti-vegan satire, or?
What? This movie is like Ginger Snaps meets Black Swan, except Black Swan is
a bit tame and inhibited, but still manages to present itself as dark.
This movie went way beyond the line Black Swan did with the gore and
sexual scenes, and still was not dark nor scary, not even with that
blasphemous rap song that apparently was helping her "transform" into a
ravenous lust bot. The only thing good about this is the attempt to link the location to
the psychosomatic downfall of the main character. I think the
university setting wasn't for just any reason. Like The Shining, the
location drove him mad. It forced him to mentally cave into himself
because he had no distractions in such a desolate place as that hotel,
and once he was distracted he lost it. Here, she loses her mind at the
university. She's without her controlling mom for the 1st time, so
she's having separation anxiety, and her older sister is a piece of
**** anyway as she didn't even welcome her to the school or protect
her, nothing. All her sister does is act as a catalyst to the main
character's internal fray. It shows how ****ed up hazings are and what
trying to fit in away from home for vulnerable young people can do if
you don't have a strong value system. She did not have such, she had
her mom forcing ideas like not eating meat down her throat which is why
she was able to literally get meat shoved down her throat by her
second-in- line guide, her older sister, who is sick in the head. Maybe
she wants to relate to her older sister, connect to her, by
involuntarily becoming like her, to cope with being away from home and
going against what she knows for social survival. However, as deep a
thinker as I am, the movie did NOT address this or state this! Not in
script, not in visuals. This is me trying to make the most of time
otherwise wasted. This movie wasn't even disturbing! It was worse than dammit Dogtooth.
This was supposed to be scary and unsettling, huh, hence the little zoo
porn stunts they keep pulling, the unnecessary gay sex, and of course
the gore. But how with all of that, was it still boring?! It was. No
idea why some critics have rated this so well, their pretentious egos
must be getting stroked watching, rubbing their little chinny chinny
chins at how profound and edgy they think this is, haha. It went from
being a psychological breakdown of the main character, to some campus
zombie f*ck fest, to some family cult. One girl in the movie said to the main character who was ill: "Use two
fingers. It makes the puke come up faster."I think I'll do that.
