1
Seriously DCEU?? Definitely not the best one of the year !! Whatever Marvel gets right DC gets it wrong again and again.

I am a huge fan of Superhero movies and i had to say i was pretty
excited for this one!! But just like every DCEU movie since Christopher
Nolan's Batman trilogy its just bad script and worse directing!!Lets get to the movie now!! It started off really well and Themyscira
was portrayed in a beautiful and untouched by modern era and they got
it right.Stunning visuals and waterfalls and they showed us how
Princess Diana is a "FIGHTER" by heart and always wanted to fight for
what is right.Amazonian women were portrayed as strong and intelligent
women which was conveyed through the initial few scenes. Just like
every other stereotypical Superhero movie she will become a bad-ass
within 10-15 minutes of the movie defeating everyone and uses her
braces and unleashes a mega shock-wave accidentally.They don't show her
using it again in the movie where she could have !!!! Here they mention
something about her heritage and nobody has a clue what the hell was
going on!!Then she rescues the "Dude in distress" ....Steve Trevor and the movie
just slows down to a pace just like the boat they set out to get out of
Themyscira!! Few people die during the beach invasion as expected and a
couple of scenes made me go Woahh but other than that quite
forgettable.Gal Gadot was really good at portraying Wonder Woman and behaves much
like Thor when he enters Earth. Doesn't know the curtsies or the rules
of the outside world.She was convincing as an intelligent woman who
spoke more than 100 languages!! Throw in few more scenes of rescuing
Steve Trevor from German spies.Here again they could have had some
bad-ass action sequences but they didn't.Finally as in every other Superhero movies the hero goes and fights the
bad guys...was waiting for this for so long and this was just before
the break. On the way the heroes party(Steve Trevor and WW) is joined
by a couple of forgettable characters who were there clearly to add
some laughs but didn't actually workout. one flaw i found here was
Germans conversing with each other in English with bad accents. The
casting choice for Ludendorff was really bad.Danny Huston was horrible
as a German Military Officer and they keep calling their head "KAISER"
which was how Germans referred to their head during World War
One-according to the comics that's when actually Steve Trevor and
Princess Diana meet not during World War 2.We will skip to the Final Act because the scenes in between are really
forgettable . The action sequences were so bad and the CGI was
laughable at certain points.It looked like a video game at one point.Final Act dropping the bombs in London.This is when the BS hit the
ceiling!! Diana kills Ludendorff thinking he was ARES-but boy was she
wrong!! Psych-It was the well mannered British Guy....ooh mind
blown....NOT!!!! Another typical fight scene where everything almost
seems out of hands and defeat for the hero and the entourage but
through some act of human behavior the Superhero gains strength to kick
the bad guy back to his place. Here again she doesn't use her powerful
braces for the main villain!!!Overall a really OVER hyped ,Cliched,Poorly directed,badly cast with a
horrible story well of course Zack Snyder was involved what else did
people expect the Story to be!!
