7
A beautiful modern tale suffering from focus issues

The trailer for this movie was perfect, a real tearjerker focusing on
exactly what the synopsis says: a little boy coming to terms with his
mother's terminal illness with the help of his imagination. As someone
who just lost his mother to cancer I was sobbing while watching the
trailer and put this movie on my "must-see" -list. Unfortunately, the
movie left me a bit cold.First the good parts. The relationship between the boy (Connor) and the
monster works very well and the animations that go along with the
monster's stories are absolutely gorgeous. I'm usually quite sceptical
about combining different visual elements because it rarely works but
here the tone and amount is just perfect. Another aspect of the film
that works is the chemistry between the dying mother and her son. Oddly
enough, this is the movie's biggest flaw since the mother has such a
small part in the storyline.The first half of the movie strikes as unfocused, as if the director
didn't know what he wanted to say. Quite often movies based on novels
suffer from lack of focus because the director was unable to cut away
portions from the source material. That is also the case with A Monster
Calls. The heart of the story, the mother, is pushed aside in the very
first minutes and we are introduced to a number of characters that add
nothing to the story. More screen time is given to school bullies than
to the mother which seems very odd. Apparently the director couldn't
help himself and just had to dwell in bullying. A pattern which seems
to be a norm in children's movies. Then we are introduced to the
father, a character completely irrelevant to the story. His only
purpose is to show that Connor comes from a broken family. I haven't
read the novel the film is based on, so I can not say what his purpose
was supposed to be. Perhaps his role was to showcase how important the
mother was for the boy, since she's the only parent he's got. None of
that comes through in the film, though. The father walks in and out,
amounting to nothing.Then there's the grandmother who is introduced as an uptight caricature
with too many minutes wasted on stressing her strictness. This is a
real shame since the character also provides the most heartfelt moments
in scenes establishing the shared grief she and Connor both feel.
Something really amazing could've been accomplished with this pairing
without the needless "evil grandmother" tropes. A real missed
opportunity, I feel.Once the film has established just how hard a life Connor has, the
focus goes back to where it should have always been: the mother and
Connor's acceptance of her state of health. This is clearly the strong
point of the story and the ending is executed beautifully. The
emotional impact of the last half an hour or so also reminds the
viewers of how impactful the entire film could've been had the father
been reduced to a side mention and the minutes dedicated for school
bullies cut in half in order to raise the profile of the mother. By
doing so, A Monster Calls could've accomplished something
groundbreaking by talking about cancer to children, many of whom will
unfortunately be affected by it. This message, however, gets lost with
the director juggling with too many elements.
