8
Alien Fun

It is really hard to believe that it has been 10 years since the last
Men in Black film. I have to say that this film was much better than
the last film which was really just a regurgitation of the first one.
This film had a lot more substance and managed to tie up some loose
ends which I really appreciated. I think that this film works in 3D
because there is a lot of falling through time, which my niece and
nephew loved. I have to give major props to Josh Brolin (younger Agent
K) who had the daunting task of portraying an actor portraying a role.
Tommy Lee Jones (old Agent K) just basically had to be himself (smile).
Josh was totally convincing and did an excellent job imitating Tommy's
persona. I liked the introduction of Agent O (Emma Thompson) who had
one of the funniest scenes in the film and literally had me laughing
out loud. I also liked the fact that a women was in charge of such a
prestigious agency. As usual Will Smith (Agent J) came up with very
comical explanations of the weird situations that occur during the
film. I think that my favorite character in the film is Griffin
(Michael Stuhlbarg). He was a psychic who could see into the various
futures that could occur if certain things happen. I was a little
confused at first, but as the film progressed, I finally got it. I
related to this character because I have always believed that you
always have at least two doors to open (e.g. you can pick up that piece
of paper or not) and whatever you decide to do affects everything else.
Okay, enough of philosophy class and back to the film. The one thing
about all the Men in Black films is all of the different characters
that the visual effect crew create. You have to appreciate the
imagination of those folks. I also like to check out the aliens that
they are monitoring at the agency, for example in the first one they
were monitoring Michael Jackson and Agent J's elementary school
teacher. Appropriately in this film you get flashes of Lady Gaga and
Justin Bieber (appropriately). I wonder if they have to agree to that?
Anyway, this was a very entertaining film and you will be glad that you
saw it in 3D. I give this film an out-of-this-world green light.
Enjoy!!!
