2
awful film, predictable plot, pointless effects

This is definitely one of the worst films i have ever seen. To start
with, i should say that i was transformer fan and used to read the
Marvel comics. However i almost dozed off in the middle of the film and
the only reason i didn't was that the film kept booming all the way
through. I cannot stand the tedious plot- if there ever was a
meaningful plot- from the beginning, almost. When the monologue of the
CIA officer started, you basically got a clue what was going to happen:
a new villain comes, cooperating with some secret government divisions
and almost defeating Optimus, and Optimus finds some new fancy magic to
kill the villain. And sadly as it turned out that the guess was right
for the most part. The film is full of slow motions that proved to be
unnecessary and time-wasting, and CG effects that proved to be
pointless when there is no plot. What is the point of special effects
after all? To serve the story and create visual impact of course. But
haven't we seen many films with those explosions and fighting before?
This is not 1980s when the special effects are so groundbreaking that
people all went to watch Star Wars for the new effects. The CG effects
in films cannot be seen and treated as an END, but a MEANS. Surely CGs
can be an end, but only to programmers perhaps, definitely not to
audiences. Yeah I know you can make Optimus riding a dinosaur but so
what? Bay understood this the whole other way around: the point of the
plot seems to be creating more opportunities to present all the CG
effects. The characters, both human and alien, were poorly created. The
transformers from the first film of the series seemed to be made for
fighting and had no culture or society of their own. Any fantasy or
science-fiction film should at least explain a little bit about that or
otherwise those fighting machines do not seem to be realistic. There
was NEVER a complex plot happening amongst the transformers, which,
ironically, the comics did an excellent job in. The only transformer
character in whom some efforts were put into is Optimus, who
nonetheless appears as a fighting machine, more so than Megatron in the
comics, and lacks proper leadership and sophisticated mind. He does not
seem to be charismatic and the only reason he was the leader seems to
be that he is a greater FIGHTER than anyone else. Where is the prudent
and messianic Optimus? Where is the lovable bumblebee? Most of the
human characters can simply be eliminated from the film and no
different will be made. And I still don't understand why Wahlberg's
character keeps finding troubles for himself and his daughter even
though they are safely out from the fight. Tucci's character is simply
moved by an ambiguous call from Wahlberg and changes all his plans and
thoughts, too gullible to be believed as realistic. The CIA officer
actually can be used to create a moral dilemma in which people have to
choose between the safety of their own and abandonment of the faithful
allies and of course that didn't happen. I saw no romance between the
lovers. Going through some escapes doesn't mean two people
automatically love each other. There are lots of screaming of the two
though, but doesn't seem like romance to me. The protective dad enjoys
dragging his daughter and her boyfriend into troubles which he has no
reason to concern. SAVE YOUR MONEY, PEOPLE.
