8
Active duty (unnamed) SEALs, not real actors

The plot is simple. A CIA agent gets kidnapped, and, the resulting
chase leads the rescue team all over the world.What's different, you ask? The actors, or, rather, the lack of.Lead roles are played by 8 nameless men. You see their faces, you hear
their voices, their stories, but, you never learn their names. Why?
They are active duty US Navy Spec Op operators. SEALs. SEa, Air, Land
(team). Shooters. People, whose job is simple. Don't get killed, while
going against rather prevalent odds. Return home by the grace of
superior training, special tactics and weapons, and, very often, sheer
determination.So often, when people so doggedly focus on something, they reach
excellence, all the while sacrifice skills in other areas. So, how good
is the acting? Well, when you are that good, something's gotta give.
And, this is no exception. SEALs don't make great actors. And, great
acting makes the film. Amazing execution sells the documentary (Just
watch Discovery Channel's "Navy SEAL Training/BUDs". But, what makes a
good movie is good acting, coupled with great script, held together by
great cinematography.So, what of "Act Of Valor"? Cinematography is outstanding. No
"too-close" a shot, where the action gets blurry, decent enough script,
albeit simple, yet, no great acting.WARNING! Here be spoilers!The entire film is noting more than a deceased father's comrade's
letter to the fallen's newborn son. He is one of the critical
characters in the film, and, while the act of sacrifice lies in the
title of the movie, the action makes up for so much that this movie
lacks. Just making out the Spec-Ops speak will keep you entertained
long enough to fill the gaps between the action.So, is it worth seeing? Well, if you're a fan of Special Operations,
like I am, then, by all means! If you like a decent action movie, then,
prepare to hold on to your seat. But, if you're looking for artistic
value, apart from truly great cinematography (you will be amazed by
some of the POV shots), then, look elsewhere.All in all, a solid action movie, with a very sound war theme in the
age of political correctness.
