1
I have no idea what happened

I should begin by saying that I am a big fan of Tolkiens work, and have
read LOTR and The Hobbit (and his other books) many times. I did enjoy
the first trilogy, and thought that the changes Jackson did to the
story were sometimes understandable, sometimes acceptable. However, I
have no idea what happened with this movie and the whole second
trilogy. I am terribly disappointed, and I have no idea whether the changes were
necessary simply to milk as much money as possible out of the whole
project (spreading out the story to get 3 long movies, even if that
meant adding many new things), or whether Jackson actually thinks he
knows better than Tolkien... knows better how to explain things, how to
connect the Hobbit to LOTR, or how to make a compelling story. And yes, an adaption doesn't HAVE to be close to the book. However, if
you mess with the story, if you include things that contradict the
whole story, and if you essentially kill off the charm and warmth and
concept of the book the movie is based on, things get dangerous.The Hobbit was a book written for children, and while there are scenes
in the trilogy that will definitely be fun for children (the dwarfs
offering a lot of those kinda scenes), the violence and amount of
killing and cut off heads make me wonder how suitable the movie really
is. However, watching this movie, and having seen the previous ones, these
questions came up in my mind:- Is it really FORBIDDEN to make a movie that Doesn't have a love-story
involved? Isn't the Hobbit legendary enough, hasn't the book proved
often enough it is a great story without a love-story included? Why did
Jackson have to create Tauriel, the female ninja-elf and her love-story
with a DWARF? Why did this have to be added? Would the film would have
so much more terrible (hard to imagine) without a cliché and
badly-written love-story that was added by Jackson and Walsh? - I
sincerely think that, if the elvish race is capable of doing the things
Tauriel and Legolas do in battle, not only could the small group of
elven warriors Jackson added to the battle of Helms Deep in Two Towers
have totally defeated the orcish army in less than 2 minutes... the
history of Middle-Earth would be very difficult if they all could fight
even remotely as well. Also, the fighting skills of Legolas in this
movie are totally inconsistent to what he was able to do later on in
LOTR. Considering that elves live incredibly long, the amount of time
that passed between the Hobbit and Lotr is no explanation of why
Legolas is a walking "ninja-god" in the Hobbit and much less
superman-like in LOTR. - The incredible length of the scenes... it
sincerely feels like the movie team was paid by the minutes of film
they produced - The worms... I reckon they are based on a small comment
by Bilbo, mentioning "were-worms" (a comment that has often riddled
Tolkien-fans). Is this an attempt to somehow win over the fans of
Tolkien-lore that feel insulted by Tauriel, the changes to the story,
the goats, rabbits and deer-mounts, the fact that the WONDERFUL scene
of Beorn appearing at the battle in the book and turning the tide,
bringing relief and a change to the battle was kinda removed because
the ninja-elves prove that Middle-Earth is located in the Matrix? - I
really would feel bad for JRR Tolkien if he was able to watch these
movies. He felt so much love for the world and characters he created,
and put so much time, effort and feelings into his work. All this now
was steamrolled over by the production team of this movie. After the
rather respectful handling of LOTR, Jackson changed so much about the
Hobbit that it feels totally disrespectful to the lifetime of work
Tolkien put into his stories. What went wrong? Did Jackson think that, in order to attract and
convince all those that haven't read the books, he would need to turn a
wonderful book, written for children with a lot of warmth and charm,
into a medieval Transformers (regarding amount of CGI, length of
fights, lack of realism, character depth and taste)? Did he really think this was in any way a respectful adaption of the
work of a man who invested DECADES into writing, refining and
perfecting his stories? Who, instead of focusing on just hours of
battle, managed to create a world full of lore, charm, and wonderful
characters?I have no idea what went wrong behind the scenes. Have no idea whether
the movie studio said "Jackson, forget about what people love about the
Hobbit. Turn it into three overlong movies for more profit, get us as
many battles and skirmishes as you possibly can milk out of this, and
just to make sure, add a love-story (we don't care how you do it), add
a popular character from the previous trilogy so people will dig that.
Oh yeah, the book was written for children, so make sure there is a
song or two, bird poo on the nutty wizard who escaped from Hogwarts
(Radagast), a dwarf with a pickax stuck in his skull, and funny bits
that children love. But don't forget we want adults to watch it too, so
please, add tons of action and cut-off heads, too... gotta hit all
those demographics". I know a lot of Tolkien-fans apparently love this movie and the
trilogy. One review even said "...from a true fan". Please don't think
this is the case in general. I have grown up reading Tolkiens work, and
I am simply stunned by how bad, how tasteless and disrespectful this
trilogy is.
