7
Sadly, this doesn't feel like a complete film at all - but it offers a surprisingly realistic portrayal of a totalitarian society on the brink of an all-out civil war

It appears I'm in a minority here, because I actually liked
'Mockingjay: Part 1'. Now bear with me for a moment before you rip this
review to shreds and please at least hear (or read) me out.I do absolutely acknowledge that unlike the two previous films,
'Mockingjay: Part 1' doesn't feel like a complete film; it is
practically all build-up and doesn't have a proper ending, and I agree
that splitting the last book into two films was an inherently stupid,
purely greed-driven decision by the studio. Also, due to that idiotic
split of the last chapter, the film is largely deprived of the
action/adventure elements that so many fans loved in the first two
films, which must be especially disappointing to non-book-readers who
didn't expect such a drastic change in tone. But if we ignore its most
obvious flaws for a moment, the film has actually quite a few things
going for it.For instance, it offers a surprisingly realistic portrayal of a
totalitarian society on the brink of an all-out civil war, and unlike
other Hollywood adaptations of such tales, it dares to put the emphasis
on the human drama instead of the special effects. And it remains
faithful to the book: it would have been fairly easy to invent a couple
of heroic battle scenes to amp up the spectacle (Hollywood is notorious
for such disregard of source material - and such disregard for the
fans), and I must say I appreciated the film precisely because of its
NOT solely action-driven narrative.But the most impressive aspect about 'Mockingjay: Part 1' is how
layered it actually is. This is not the good-against-evil story of the
first two films anymore: this is a really smart study on how propaganda
works and how one fascist system is about to be replaced - albeit with
the best intentions - by another. This kind of moral ambiguity (and
again: faithfulness to the novel) is not what we usually get in
blockbusters aimed at teenagers, and for that alone the film deserves
some credit.Also, what the film does masterfully, is showing how Katniss transforms
upon the devastating realization that she has helped - or has been
instrumentalised - to set a process in motion that she can neither stop
nor control, a process which has already led to a terrible loss of
human life for which she now feels responsible. She is torn apart by
inner conflict because her hate for Snow and everything he stands for
is bigger than ever - yet at same time, it begins to dawn on her that
the leaders of the rebellion employ methods which don't seem to be all
that different. The lines between what is morally acceptable and what
is not start to blur. A very wise person once said: "War makes fascists
of us all" - I believe 'Mockingjay: Part 1' does an excellent job at
getting that point across.Unlike in most popcorn movies, there are no mere black and white
characters here (well, except maybe for Snow); instead, we get a story
that - for once - hasn't been dumbed down and functions as a sincere
exploration of an escalating civil war that threatens to consume
everyone. And unlike most YA adaptations, the film doesn't shy away
from showing what that means: the audience is left in no doubt about
the human toll this revolution will take in the end.Maybe the current situation in countries like Syria after the initially
peaceful revolution that was the Arab Spring made this film resonate
more with me than it should have, but I was surprised at how un-
Hollywood-like this was done. And I can't stress this enough: Jennifer
Lawrence MAKES this film; the whole franchise, really. The emotional
intensity she brings to Katniss feels so real; it's the kind of
performance that, in this kind of film, sadly often gets overlooked,
but I sincerely doubt a better Katniss could ever have been found.So my final verdict on the film: 'Mockingjay: Part 1' offers
intelligent entertainment that doesn't solely rely on special effects
and one mindless action scene after another. It's a fitting
continuation of Katniss' journey, but - and that is the one serious
downside to this film - it doesn't lead that journey to its logical
conclusion. That the studio wants you to pay once more to see how the
journey ends may be understandable from a financial standpoint, but it
is a major flaw in the storytelling of an otherwise very good film.
Likewise, the final chapter in the series (Mockingjay: Part 2) will
likely suffer from having to do without all the dramatic build-up that
Part 1 offers. Still, there is a lot to like in this film and it is far from the
boring mess so many reviews made it out to be: 7 stars out of 10.Favorite Films: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054200841/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/
