10
Phew what a movie!

Spoiler inside.I don't expect at all to have a very enjoyable experience and happiness
when watching this movie. After watching it, I kinda feel human and
recharge again and made you realized the meaning of kindness. Thank you
for creating a very good movie that so enjoyable.First the acting. Mary is just unbelievable here. Never once i felt i
am watching a kid act in-front of a camera. Well ..., i am saying she
has done a very very good job compared to other child actor. We can
really feel her when she sad, cry, happy or when she tried to hide her
'grown up and geniuses from coming out because her dad told her so.
And, because she is cute too, it's amplify sadness when she gets hurt.
I almost cry when frank left her at her foster parent. Now, because I
love action movie, I really hope that there is a director out there
that will offer her a character in an action movie just like kick-ass.
It will fits her perfectly and will surpassed chloe moretz easily.All of the adults also doing very good but that should be expected from
them. What i want to say is something about their chemistry. Thank
goodness, it is there!! That captain America did a very good job as a
guardian and comparable to the wolverine in real-steel movie as a
trouble father. He did a very good job here.Frank and mary's teacher, mary and roberta in some scene have a
fantastic and inspirational dialog that can 'wake' you and make you
realized there are other perspective to understand about life.Scenery shown during Frank and mary out together is so amazing and
beautiful. And that scene when mary said 'you lied to me' is so intense
that i am sure many of you will be touched. There are also scene that
makes you heart pumped faster when that that old lady evelyn terrifies
everyone in court with her intelligent and non-stop reasoning. Overall
they managed to shows almost real-life relation and maintain it
throughout the movie.If you like to watch drama about family, and you like to think, it's
one of the must-watch movie this year.
