3
So much potential...so little logic...

Great start and I was riveted for the first 20 or so minutes...then the
plot fell over from a lack of logic and slid further and further away
from reality.If the whole story was crap from the start, just from the filming and
acting, I might have given this a 3 or even 5...but for something so
promising to turn bad from just before the half way mark was extremely
disappointing and frustrating.As said...the beginning was nice and though there were some misplaced
work ethics and contradictions, it was acceptable and we can put them
down to human character flaws...Some examples of what killed it for me...spoiler ahead...The commander decided to not come back in to the station and instead
leave the creature outside...why didn't she just push herself
away...she should know that in space...a light push will keep her going
forever...instead, she allowed the creature a chance to cling back onto
the space station...heroic maybe, but not smart (a
non-scientific-minded commander of a space station?).Miranda and David found out that they can track the creature's
movement. At that same time, Sho is still hiding in the sleep pod and
to them, he is still missing and without comms...wouldn't the immediate
normal human (team)reaction is to find and bring back the third last
surviving member of the group? They trapped the creature in one area.
Shouldn't, wouldn't they try to 'kill' it when it is trapped?
No...doing something would be more taxing than just chatting with each
other.The part where Sho opened the door to the 'rescue' shuttle and air
started rushing out...all three of them looked like they were hanging
on for dear life not to be 'sucked' away...yet once they decide that
Sho is dead and lost, the two of them can scramble away like normal
zero gravity...huh?? Were they just acting out the struggle with
rushing air? In the same scene...many people have died and their anger
and repulsion for the creature is well known...yet, when the creature
crawled from Sho to Miranda, she kept on holding him to allow it to
crawl onto her...try that with a rat or a spider and we all know that
it is not normal for a person repulsed by something to keep holding on
like that... Instead, Sho must act the hero to rip the creature back
onto himself to save her...if he had wanted to save her, he should have
let go when he realised he couldn't shake the creature...The creature was floating around outside the space station for quite a
long time...but they decide at the end that it needed oxygen to survive
(like humans? can we float around outside a space station for more than
2 minutes- even assuming we can handle the decompression like the
creature can???) and in fact would hug an oxygen producer is
laughable...please...before filming start...decide if the creature
needs oxygen!!! (or love oxygen in fact) David put the escape pod into manual mode so that he can fly himself
and the creature out to deep space...and while I understand the
creature is very smart and learns quickly...but so quickly that it can
fly the escape pod back for a re-entry? Wow...a half degree off would
either skip the pod back out to space or dive too steeply and
incinerate the pod...but it did the improbable...perfect re-entry
control without lessons or prior practise....frigging brilliant...There were many more like these but I lost interest not much later
after the commander died and the rest preferred to cry instead of
dealing a serious problem...so didn't register much of the less
glaring...A possible Alien level movie failed by poor scripting and story...could
have been a real classic...but sadly no...Hollywood's thinking that we
must like space movies because the CGI is impressive needs to
change...they should have a re-look at Alien, Sunshine, Moon and The
Martian and understand that space can be a great movies backdrop but
logic MUST still be strictly earth-bound if it involves humans...Not yet offensive to the intellect but just sad and unrealistic.
