1
There's honestly no point in seeing this movie.

To start this off I want to let everyone know this is my first review,
so please bear with me and I'll do my best to bring you a good review.I was excited for this movie for two reasons. One because of Keanu
Reeves, I mean who wouldn't be excited to see him after thoroughly
enjoying John Wick and I wanted to see if he could keep climbing back
up to the popularity he used to have. The second reason was that the
trailer looked quite interesting when I saw it, really made me want to
see it.The problem is it's another one of those movies that we've seen before
where the only interesting parts of the movie have already been shown
to you in the trailer. The story just seems to have no substance and
the characters are just not fleshed out at all, not to mention there
really is no Horror or Thrills as the genre listing would show. I admit
there's mystery, but not in a good way.**********SPOILER WARNING**********This whole story is bonkers, the girls that show up at Evan's (Keanu's
character) door end up seducing him after his repeated attempts to
stave them off and a whole series of weird stuff happens. They overstay
their welcome and claim they're underage so that Evan won't call the
police, which is completely dropped 4 minutes later when he actually
does call the police and one of the girls hangs up his phone and just
asks for a ride home. After Evan is back home, he hears a noise and
decides to check what it was, always a good idea, right? They knock him
out of course and start having some sick fun with him like recording
him having sex with one of the girls while she's dressed in his
daughter's clothes. Then after an escape attempt Evan's incapacitated
by a fork stab to the shoulder, oh yeah he had surgery on his shoulder,
the opening of the movie makes sure you know that. They then tie him up
in a chair and play a gameshow they called "Who wants to be a
pedophile?" furthering the supposed belief that they are underage, so I
just gotta kinda roll with it here even though they don't look anything
like they're underage.The acting by Keanu through the whole rest of the movie is pretty bad,
like when he gets an answer wrong during the gameshow he gets a loud
high pitched squeal played in his ears via headphones, which I don't
know why he didn't just shake his head and make them fall off but oh
well. He says "stop stop stop, my ears my ears, I'll go deaf I'll go
deaf" in the most unbelievable way possible, doesn't sound like he's in
any pain whatsoever. The rest is actually pretty boring, Luis (guy
coming to pick up a sculpture that Evan's wife made for exhibit) dies
after tripping and hitting his head; the girls Papier-mâché and dispose
of his body; the girls tell Evan they're going to kill him at dawn and
proceed to tear up and vandalize the house; Evan tries to knock a
ceramic egg off a shelf that contains a gun but the girls accidentally
knock it off and find the gun first and Evan is given one more chance
to escape. He grabs a knife and runs outside only to trip and fall and
be captured again by the girls. Alright, the ending. After this whole debacle of a movie, the girls
start to bury Evan with his head sticking out of the dirt, and just as
one of the girls is about to smash his head with a stone, she smashes
it beside him and starts laughing about how he thought they were
actually going to kill him. At this point we hear about how they do
this kind of thing a lot and how no one ever refuses them, these sick
people spy on loving families and tear their lives apart on a regular
basis. We also learn that they weren't actually underage therefore and
tension that was built up when it was threatened that he would go to
jail were completely fabricated. They then upload his sex video to his
facebook and leave him there in the ground. This is where the funny
part is, people start commenting about how sick it is that he posted
that and he pulls his arm out of the dirt to try to press delete (crazy
because the 'delete' and 'like' buttons are right next to each other)
and he accidentally clicks like, to which he then lets out an angry
yell. Then his family gets home and sees the mess, the son says "dad
had a party." and the movie ends. That's it, cut to black, the end.I've probably bored you with this review, but now you know how I felt
during the viewing of this movie. 1 Star for this, especially after
listening to Eli Roth's interview because he made it seem like he
thought the movie was good but you'd have to be delusional to think
that. Well guys, thanks for reading my first review, hopefully I get
better from here, and don't see this movie if you want to have a good
time. It's not even a "so bad it's funny" watch, trust me.
