9
Misunderstood

This movie is misunderstood, I'm writing my first review with the hope
to increase understanding and appreciation of it. Lose your
expectations and watch it as it is, an adventure. Think about the
things you see, analyze them. Don't expect to be on the edge of your
seat all the time from exciting action, it takes a back seat after the
beginning.. which the trailer seems to mostly contain and make a false
picture of the film. My opinion.. I try and keep this spoiler free.While perhaps expecting a little more awe scenes, action and insight
into the "tomorrowland" society the movie has some very nice scenes.
2/3 into the film it somehow got a bit boring.. but it gets better.
Could perhaps have been cut on a place or too, but the scenes were
visually pleasing instead. A few confusing aspects here and there like
the transition at the end, but who cares? No one has seemed to bother
analyzing the philosophical aspects of pre-determination, alternate
realities and concepts like our consciousness creating our reality as
an reflection of our collective state of mind. The message is a fine
one and something to think about our outlook on life.Does all the negativity really serve us? What's the content of news?
Only negative stories. Do they encourage you to go out and make a
difference or make you depressed and go on with business as usual it is
all going to h*ll anyways? But it sells and is a money making
mechanism.. It is a bit humorous the extent the level of fear the
society in the movie are in and project unto the children and society,
connections to our western society can be made too.If you notice these things you will appreciate the hints at secret
societies and connections to the "Club 33" in Disneyland too and other
goodies like the rivalry between Nikola Tesla and Edison. Nothing too
profound or divulging from my understanding but it's there too, Tesla
is an under appreciated figure in our history who deserves a lot more
recognition.These are the things I brought with me from this movie, and I'm a
sucker for scifi, which was what initially attracted me to the film,
but it turned out to just be eye candy to boot :) not the main thing
about the film.
