4
'Maggie' is visually and tonally great, and has some great performances, but suffers from massive pacing and script issues

When I first heard about this film, it was through Arnold's YouTube
channel, as he had done a Reddit premiere for the film. I was
intrigued, because the film starred Schwarzenegger in a more serious
role, which is something I had never seen from him. It also sounded
intriguing because it was a zombie film primarily about a father and
daughter, so I expected something with some action but also some heart
and such. Did I get that in this film? Let's find out. Maggie follows a girl named Maggie who gets bitten after she runs away
from home. Her father manages to pick her up and is told she has
approximately six to eight weeks left to live. Her father is now
determined to do the best he can to protect Maggie right until the
bitter end.Okay, so, let me get this off my chest, I did not like this film as
much as I wanted to. That being said, let's start with the positives.
The acting was well done. Schwarzenegger, in one of his only serious
roles, does a great job portraying the father afraid for his daughter.
Breslin also does a great job, portraying the sadness of someone who
knows she is going to die. Richardson does a decent job as the
step-mother, nothing too amazing, but nothing too bad either. Griffin
and Evermore do good as the two cops who constantly enter the film.The look of the film was very bleak and very cold, which I think helped
the film in what it was trying to do. Tying into this is the music,
which is very ambient at times, but it can also be incredibly poignant
when it's trying to be. The set locations of the film I really liked.
Keeping it mainly on the house that Maggie and her father share was
probably one of the best decisions of the film. I also liked the
effects used to slowly progress Maggie into her zombified state - it
looked rather cool.Now, let's get to what I didn't like. The story, or rather, the
execution. From the simple plot summary I had read on IMDb, I expected
a film in which maybe Arnold has to do some things to protect his
daughter, or a film in which Arnold and the daughter would have been
stuck in the house by themselves, slowly coming to terms with their
issues. I got, instead, a film that included 10- minute sequences of
different families's lives just to "make it more poignant when we got
to the inevitable ending." Which, it didn't. It more annoyed the hell
out of me.Devoting 10 minutes of your film in which the title character barely
appears, and includes a 3-minute sequence where Arnold's character
walks through a house is just ridiculous. It wasn't even to build
tension, it was just in there for dramatic purposes. And another thing,
I firmly believe that if you're going to make a zombie movie, either
don't show zombie killings at all and keep it PG-13, or go all out and
make it R. The way this film did it, we always got the "assumption"
that zombies were killed, which annoyed me to no end.Overall, honestly, Maggie was a decent movie at best. The acting,
music, look, set locations and effects used were all nice, but I can't
excuse the movie being 95 minutes long and feeling like it's over two
and a half hours. When your film is PG-13, and implies anything sort of
thrilling in terms of zombie killing, and never shows it, and casts
Arnold F'ing Schwarzenegger as your lead star, you have to assume the
film would be interesting or good. It started out interesting, but then
it devolved into 20 minutes of dialogue in a 90 minute film, which just
doesn't work for me. If you really want to see this movie, rent it at
Redbox or Netflix, don't pay more than $2 for it. You'll thank me
later.4/10. Grade: C-
