1
The worst movie I have ever seen, by far - SPOILER ALERT (for a film that is already spoiled)

I loved the movie Drive. This is not Drive. Here's why:1. This movie is visually very weak. Don't get me wrong, I understand
this aesthetic. But that is because it is totally played out. I heard
NWR say that he got the idea for Only God Forgives from the mental
image of a clenched fist. I would say for this one he got the idea from
old Maybelline commercials, the 2006 Daft Punk alive tour and some old
Mert & Marcus editorials. It looks cheap, dated and badly executed. The
soundtrack is the same. It worked for Drive because that electro
revival of Moroder in 2001 is the perfect driving music, but now it
just feels tacky. Save your money and just walk into any Sephora store.2. This movie is not "crazy" or "dark". Every "surreal" moment is
predictable and cliché. Watch Un Chien Andalou and then got to Burning
Man festival and you'll have all the inspiration you will need for a
sequel. Claire Denis' Trouble Every Day makes use of the same clichés
but the difference is that NWR thinks he is the first one to think of
them. 3. This movie is not a "critique". This doesn't reveal the truth of
anything except a made- up idea of the fashion world. Who told NWR that
modeling make-up always involves putting a bunch of junk on the girls
faces? Who told him that the center of the modeling world is LA and not
New York? That Elle Fanning, who is short and pudgy, is somehow meant
to be believable as a more desirable model than Abbey Lee Kershaw? If
she is so good why does the camera cut away every time she is meant to
strike a pose or walk a catwalk? Abbey Lee says at one point that by
the time you are 20 your past your expiry date. She is 29 and had a
major Calvin Klein campaign earlier this year. 4. The story sucks (because NWR "wrote" it, unlike Drive). The story is
basically Black Swan. Think pseudo-lesbian jealousy corrupting a young
hopeful in a competitive industry. But then add a few dozen plot holes.
This girl is the modeling worlds' new It Girl and yet she can't afford
a motel that isn't rape-infested? Or ever go to a hospital? You can
successfully bury a girl in a six inch grave in a perfectly manicured
garden in a house that isn't yours? And why are there only about 6
people in the whole movie? Parties, nightclub toilets, restaurants
photo shoots and the backstage of runway shows usually have dozens of
people around, not three. Especially not the same three every time.The acting is pretty lousy but who cares at this point. I'm sure most
fans will think that dislike for this film comes from its dark,
confronting, disturbing portrayal of our superficial society. It
doesn't. It comes from wanting to watch something other than an old
loser jerk himself off for 2 hours to a 2001 copy of Vogue magazine.
