4
Disappointing in comparison to the trailer

I bought Journey 2: The mysterious island on DVD after seeing the
trailer which looked great. Unfortunately the film was so badly written
and poorly casted that it killed off the good story line.The beginning of the film moved so quickly with Sean and Hank finding
answer after answer until the whole story was pieced together within a
matter of minutes.By the time you get to the next island where they depart form you are
probably only 10 minutes into the film. You are introduced to the most
annoying character: Gabato played by Luis Guzman and his daughter
Kailani played by Vanessa Hudgens who makes a cringe worthy slow motion
entrance wearing just a tight vest top and very short shorts.They soon crash land on the island without a scratch on them and take
on a giant lizard with objects that seem too conveniently placed. This
brings me to my major hate about this film that its just not
continuous. When they arrive Sean says that all large things become
small and small things become big, therefore the lizard wouldn't be
half as big as it was and the same applies to other creatures that come
into play later. I felt like this logic that was introduced is only
picked up and used when it is necessary for the plot.Another thing that probably any adult watching would have picked up on
is that all the characters - Hank and Sean in particular - always seem
to know the answers. For example Hank once says "the liquefaction rate
tripled over night" and Sean later says "tectonic plates are starting
to pull apart beneath the island". Its not like they even say it after
investigating, Hank simply tastes some of the water and knows the
island with be under water within hours.The cast itself couldn't have even made the flawed script more
acceptable. I think you could just about cope with Vanessa Hudgens but
Luis Guzman couldn't have acted more annoyingly. I'm not sure whether
what he says half the time was meant to be a joke or just stupidity.
Dwayne Johnson was another bad casting choice. Don't get me wrong i
love his other action packed films but i don't think he suited this
role at all - His peck popping and playing the ukulele confirmed that.The film had so much potential and I'd be lying if i said that i didn't
at least enjoy the story. However the bad cast and flawed script ruined
any last hopes of success for this film.
