8
A Good Film.

I quite liked this film I thought it was interesting and I found the
film quite involving.I don't know what the critics were expecting when
they saw this film were they expecting some big Action epic?. If so
then it's no wonder they didn't like the film. For those who don't know
this film is a mystery thriller NOT an Action film so don't expect to
see lots of action or you will be disappointed. The film plays out as a
whodunit mystery only on a plain. Since the whole film is based on a
plain the actors are limited to what they can do so if you see the film
don't complain about the lack of Action. The film has a good story and
it kept me interested and intrigued. Liam Nesson plays an air marshal
and he befriends a women on the plain Julian Moore who is sitting next
to him and later in the film Liam starts receiving text messages from
someone and the person starts toying with him then the person threatens
to kill someone on the plain every twenty minutes unless one hundred
and fifty million dollars is transferred into his off shore bank
account. Liam Nesson takes no crap from this anonymous individual and
what I liked about his character is that he's never the victim in the
film he always fights and he never gives up even when the odds are
stacked against him. At first Liam tries to keep things quite because
he doesn't want to panic anyone on the plain but he soon asks for help
from one of the flight attendants that he trusts along with Juliane
Moore and he tells them about the threatening messages and they help
him to find who's sending them. Even though the film lacks action it
still kept me watching because I enjoyed the mystery and the suspense
and I thought it was very well done and Liam Nessons acting was very
good and I thought he was very believable in his role as the air
marshal. Liams character seems somewhat troubled in the film but at the
same time he had a lot of courage and determination to find the person
that was threatening people.the film also has some good ideas that I
liked and hadn't seen before. Now is Non stop a great film no and does
the film have problems yes,there are things that happen in the film
that may come across as silly or unbelievable but those things didn't
bother me much because I was entertained by the movie and the story
interested me,I guess I just like these kind of stories. The film does
have action but the main action kicks in during the last twenty minutes
of the movie when Liam finds out who the culprit is but everything
before that is suspense and mystery,so if people are fans of mystery
films they will probably like this film because I thought the mystery
was done very well and I never guessed who the culprit was until near
the end because there were some good red hearings in the story and it
really makes you think and I liked that about this film. The
performances were good from everyone and Liam was great in the movie
and I found his character likable and strong and I hope he does more
films like this one.this is one of his best films and if you like
mystery's Then I recommend the film I thought it was pretty good.
