3
Production interference ruined ending

What happened in the process of adapting the book to script, filming,
cutting, editing? Did someone get knocked over on the head or did they
just make a decision to kill their own film? In a nutshell: Know that
brilliant, creative, controversial yet elegantly beautiful plot twist
ending we all know and love from the books? Well, here's a cheesy happy
ending. I can just imagine the producers (which happen to be Ron Howard
and Brian Graze of Imagine) sitting in their little office going: Mmm..
that ending is crazy! We can't let that happen! What will the audience
say? We can't make a STATEMENT like that! YOUR AUDIENCE (a large amount
being book readers) are coming to be impressed, to see an interesting
look at overpopulation and Dante's inferno and plague images! I mean,
the fact of the matter is: Overpopulation is a problem and Dan Brown
proposes an elegant solution in the form of a "plague" which PLOT
TWIST: Doesn't actually kill anyone, but makes the 1/3 of the
population (by random) become infertile. It solves the issue without
being genocide. No one dies, yet the problem is solved. Elegant,
brilliant, shocking, and opens up a conversation about a real life
crisis we are facing. Interesting subject relevant to your audience.Right, okay, at some point they decided to change the ending. Which
means at the end you are still stuck with the question of
overpopulation. The film makers decided to stick with the crowded
scenes. So they constantly showing us that THIS IS A PROBLEM that needs
to be solved. Or at least something to acknowledge. Did they offer an
alternative or did they decide just to stop the bad guy? They decided
to stop the bad guys, not offering even a philosophical comment by
Professor Langdon. The problem is still staring us in the face as
Langdon flirts with W.H.O. director Sinskey and gets his watch back.You did not give us an ending. You did not give us a tying up of knots.
You gave us a cheesy, cheap, Hollywood ending that blew up in your
face. Also lets talk about the casting choices. Or not. Because it sure looks
like they didn't give a crap.I think the producers got scared. Copped out. Underestimated their
audience. Just bad storytelling really. What a waste of a Friday
evening that was.
