4
"Testament of Youth" needs to be clearer about what its testimony is.

Context is important. It's one of the reasons that I write my reviews
the way I do. Understanding where a film came from and why it was made
is an important part of deciding whether to see that particular film.
This is especially true when a movie is based on a true story, but
makes no attempt to establish its own context or an understanding of
why it thinks it's important. Such a film can leave the viewer with the
feeling that it lacks a cohesive story and is merely a random
collection of practically disconnected scenes. This is the main problem
with "Testament of Youth" (PG-13, 2:09)… so here's some background.Vera Brittain (1893-1970) was a British feminist and pacifist writer
who published her autobiography in a series of books called "Testament
of Youth", "Testament of Friendship" and "Testament of Experience",
with "Testament of Time" unfinished at the time of Brittain's death.
The first one of these, which covers her life's journey between the
years 1900 and 1925, has been highly acclaimed for its portrayal of the
experiences of women during World War I (1914-1918) and the war's
impact on the home front. It's this first installment in Brittain's
autobiography that forms the basis for the film by the same title.Alicia Vikander stars as Vera Brittain. After a brief scene on the day
that the armistice was signed, the story picks up just as the events
that will lead to the outbreak of World War I are set into motion by
the assassination of Austrian Archduke Franz Ferdinand. (Fellow
students of history will be able to follow the movie's timeline through
the shots of newspaper headlines spread throughout the film.) Vera is
enjoying a relatively carefree existence with her younger brother,
Edward (Taron Egerton) and his friend Victor when, just as she is
telling her father (Dominic West) and mother (Emily Watson) that she
shall never marry, she meets Edward's friend, Roland Leighton (Kit
Harrington), the man who will one day propose to her.All Vera wants to do is be a writer. She has the brains and the passion
and her parents have the means to send her to university, but she is
battling the popular perception of the time that higher education is
unnecessary for young women. Edward helps convince their father to
allow Vera to apply to Oxford University and take the entrance exam.
She works to prepare herself and, in spite of doing so in a
self-created vacuum of sorts, she passes. Her time at Oxford's
Sommerville College, however, is interrupted by the war. "I must do
something" she says as she announces her decision to leave Sommerville
and become a nurse as her way of supporting her brother, her new
boyfriend, Roland, and their friends, which now also include Geoffrey
(Jonathan Bailey).We see Vera serving as a nurse in London and, later, in France, where
she decides to go to be closer to where her brother is serving.
(Brittain's wartime service in Malta is not shown in the film.) As Vera
cares for the injured and the dying, she has to overcome prejudice
resulting from her well-to-do background, her total lack of knowledge
and experience regarding matters of medicine, the stigma of sometimes
having to care for wounded enemy soldiers and her grief at the death of
so many men – both those under her care and some whom she knows
personally. It's clear that these experiences have a profound effect on
who she is as a person. As everyone else celebrates, she is strangely
conflicted when the armistice is signed and an impromptu speech she
makes at the end of the film gives a strong indication of the woman and
the writer that Vera Brittain is to become."Testament of Youth" is based on a true story, but any indication of
that fact is strangely absent from the film until the closing credits
are about to roll. The film also fails to be honest about what it is.
The movie's advertising and most of the film sells itself as a story
about relationships, while a subtle anti-war message percolates beneath
the surface, only to hit the viewer in the face as the movie ends. The
acting is excellent (especially from Vikander) and the sense of time
and place is solid, but what the movie lacks most is a strong narrative
thread. It feels like it's the story of a strong young woman
practically drifting through her own life and featuring scenes and
connections which seem to come out of nowhere. I don't need a story in
which everything is tied up with a bow, but I expect a movie to be
honest with me about its point of view, or at least make it clear that
the story is headed somewhere. "C"
