4
Superficial action movie that lacks depth

I'm not completely sure what I was expecting from Fury Road, but it was
more than this. This is the latest example of Hollywood rehashing a
successful and good movie franchise solely for profit. It's mindless,
repetitive action sequences melded between horrible acting and overused
clichés.One of the allures of this series is seeing the outlandish road
vehicles that are used, and in this the movie mostly delivers. You have
the high-powered Warrior Rig driven by Furiosa. There's battle vehicles
equipped with spikes, rigs with counter-balanced poles for launching
warriors into other vehicles, and there's even a vehicle equipped with
large bass drums and a stack of speakers that would make KISS jealous
with a psychotic guitarist wailing away for our musical enjoyment. And
of course, each vehicle comes equipped with more explosive arsenal than
a battle ship. And it's put to good use.However, once you get past the eye candy, you realize there's nothing
else to it. The story is weak. The characters are weaker. And the
acting is the worst. The movie never drew me in. Not even close.
Whenever the movie 'tried' to add depth and be dramatic, it was painful
and embarrassing to watch. The scene where Furiosa reacts to finding
out her birth home is gone by taking off her prosthetic arm and
dropping down to her knees may be the worst movie scene I've ever
watched. And it says something when the most interesting character is
Nux, a relentless slave/warrior who actually has a mind of his own and
decides to help Max and Furiosa in their quest. Of course, one of
Immortan Joe's wives falls for him, representing one of the many poorly
executed clichés this movie is riddled with.I can watch a superficial action movie and enjoy it for what it is, to
a point. This one, however, is just generally so poorly executed that
it leaves a lot to be desired. I didn't hate it, but I have absolutely
no desire to see it again.
