5
Smart and intriguing, but so resolutely oblique that it's hard to really care about how (oddly) it ends.

From The Prince And The Pauper through to Sweet Valley High, literature
and fiction has held a particular fascination with the notion of
doppelgangers: two (or more) individuals who are physically identical
and yet fundamentally different, whether in personality or social
station. Denis Villeneuve's Enemy, a psychologically-charged mystery
that's more thoughtful than thrilling, explores the idea that there's
someone else in the world who shares your face but has, seemingly,
nothing else to do with you. It's fascinating, mostly, but also slow-
moving and, ultimately, frustrating.History professor Adam Bell (Jake Gyllenhaal) leads a dull, repetitive
life: he lectures unappreciative kids about totalitarian dictatorships,
has bursts of largely uncommunicative sex with his maybe-girlfriend
Mary (Mélanie Laurent), and otherwise shuffles through the day in a
lethargic haze. But everything in his humdrum existence changes when he
watches an obscure movie in which, for a brief moment, he spots
himself. Turns out he has a doppelganger: a not entirely successful
actor by the name of Anthony St. Claire. Adam becomes obsessed with
meeting Anthony, and soon their lives become irretrievably entangled.There are many ways to play a scenario like this one: Enemy could
easily have been a broad farce (just add in pratfalls and
double-takes), or a heart-stopping thrill ride (mix in life-threatening
cases of mistaken identity). But Villeneuve has chosen a determinedly
glum, very philosophical approach to Adam's dilemma. He frets to his
mother (a nicely-cast Isabella Rossellini) about the possibility that
he has a twin, and finds himself in a worryingly intimate situation
with Anthony's pregnant wife Helen (Sarah Gadon), but high drama proves
elusive until the final ten minutes or so. The resulting film, soaked
in shades of yellow, is moody and considered, its pace bordering on the
languid as Adam stumbles through his existential crisis. Anyone looking for easy answers or a clear message will be
disappointed. Enemy is very much what you make of it: it's packed with
ideas that are never fully explored, about lives never lived and the
notion of identity, which audiences can pick apart at their own
leisure. In fact, the film ends just when a more mainstream, accessible
version of this story might begin. The final shot is less cathartic
than outright puzzling, underscoring the completely alien life into
which Adam has stumbled once he chose to hunt down Anthony.Whatever you make of the film, there's no denying that this is some of
the best work Gyllenhaal has done in his career to date. He inhabits
his two characters very well, slipping into Adam's despondent skin as
easily as he finds Anthony's brash confidence. This is really his film,
but he receives capable support from Laurent, who breathes personality
into a paper-thin character. She helps make it particularly intriguing
that, when it really matters, Mary - despite having a less apparently
happy relationship with Adam - proves better able to tell the two men
apart than Helen.Almost boldly, Enemy refuses to go down any of the routes you might
expect when a man stumbles upon his exact double by chance. It doesn't
plunge into sci-fi territory, suggesting they're clones; nor does it
dip into the melodrama of hinting that they might be twins separated at
birth. Instead, it baldly states the fact - there are two men with
Gyllenhaal's face in the world - and drifts after the revelation in a
determinedly art-house manner, refusing to tie up any loose ends or
offer any simple conclusions. It makes for a compelling film, if not a
particularly satisfying one.
