8
About the importance of loving yourself before you can love others

Set in San Francisco in the mid-1970s, first-time director Marielle
Heller's The Diary of a Teenage Girl looks at life from the perspective
of a fifteen-year-old girl growing up absurd in an environment that
provides little to no emotional support or guidance. Written by the
director and based on the graphic novel by Phoebe Gloeckner, the film
was the winner of the Grand Prix (Generation 14plus) at the Berlin Film
Festival and was nominated for a Grand Jury Prize at Sundance. Minnie,
in a remarkable performance by British actress Bel Powley ("A Royal
Night Out"), is a confused and troubled teenager who lives with her
divorced mother Charlotte (Kristin Wiig, "Welcome to Me") and her
younger sister Gretel (Abby Wait).It is an environment that seems to be modeled after media notions of
the San Francisco hip culture of the sixties, though, in reality, there
was very little counter-culture left in San Francisco by the
mid-seventies. Powley captures Minnie's innocence and personal appeal
as well as her more manipulative moments, and manages to portray her as
likable in a sea of unsympathetic characters. A talented comic book
artist, Minnie speaks into a tape recorder in her room to journal her
quest for a meaningful relationship, but the tapes are filled with self
doubt and feelings of isolation that threaten to morph into
self-loathing.The film opens when Minnie proudly announces that she's just had sex
for the first time. Her sex partner, however, is her mother's
35-year-old boyfriend Monroe (Alexander Skarsgard, "The Giver"), who
freely enters into the relationship with the teenager, mindless of any
ethical or legal concerns. Minnie is definitely not an innocent victim
and Monroe is not a predator, but both act like emotional adolescents
who are caught up in the moment and seem powerless to extricate
themselves. Minnie's continued sexual relationship with Monroe enhances
her self esteem and she has a stake in keeping it going regardless of
the danger that her mother will find out.The only real friend she has is Kimmie (Madeleine Waters) who brags of
many sexual conquests herself and Minnie feels comfortable in confiding
in her details about her affair with Monroe and other experiments that
include different types of relationships with both men and women
involving drugs and prostitution. Unfortunately, Minnie keeps coming
back to Monroe who has by now become a sad character. The Diary of a
Teenage Girl is an honest film that presents the characters and
situations as they are without judgment or evaluation.Yet while it does not judge its characters, it closes its eyes to
morally dubious behavior, not commenting on Charlotte's outrageous
invasion of her daughter's privacy when she listens to her private tape
recordings which reveal the extent of her relationship with Monroe, or
addressing the question of a parent's responsibility to provide
emotional support for a an emotionally fragile teenager, regardless of
the environment in which they are living.While Minnie and Monroe go through the motions of self-reflection,
ultimately there is little substance to their quest for self
understanding. There is only an emptiness inside that the film touches
on but hardly explores and leaves us with a sense of unfulfillment.
Minnie tells her friend that Monroe has gone to participate in the EST
Training in Sacramento which she describes as a self-improvement
seminar. That is the last we hear of it, however, and we never see any
positive results from Monroe's experience or that it in any way had
touched his life. The only results that Monroe reports are that during
the weekend he was arrested for drunk driving.The message of the film is about the importance of loving yourself
before you can love others and Minnie takes a long road towards that
goal but female empowerment should not only be about sexual awakening
but about integrity, taking responsibility for your life, awakening to
the beauty and mystery of life, becoming involved in things larger than
yourself. Given the emotional vacuum in which Minnie lives, there is
nothing to indicate that any lessons have been learned. Ultimately,
this is a film that displays the forms of self-awareness but lacks its
substance.
