6
Average

Annabella I decided to watch this tonight because I watched on live cam them
moving the original Annabella from its original case to another case .
Not 100% sure why I think it was more of a portable case so they can
carry around to take on lectures . and feed naughty kids to . They wore
protected gloves and said a prayer then lifted her from its place and
placed into the other case then said another prayer. It was a
interesting watch but not much to it and only lasted around 8mins, I
was expecting a bit more, example a bit of history and background of
the doll & story, and maybe a closer look of the doll before putting it
into its case ..Now let's be fair we all have some interest in supposedly true stories
like these . I say supposedly because I'm referring to ghost \
possession \ haunted etc stories like Amityville horror etc where
stories of serial killers we know are true and did happen . Now to me I
honestly don't believe the whole Annabella story and there no real
proof to back it up except the owners story ...and what they say Now if you don't know anything about the story films like these
slightly irritate me because it had no real connection at all about the
doll except the film was based on a doll and really used Annabella name
to cash in and get a wider and bigger audience. And if you don't know
that then you would walk away from the cinema thinking this was the
story... After all i had to once explain to someone paranormal activity
wasn't true .. But she wouldn't have it because at the end before
titles it gave a brief outline of the story as if it was true and
because of that she believed it was true otherwise why write that at
the end ..face palmThe film itself was half decent and watchable but several element's of
the film annoyed me , like for starters scare tactics .. Was there any
? Where the music suddenly BOOMs making you reach for the remote
control ready to turn it down..and making you jump in same way as if
you walking along street and a friend jumped out from nowhere and
loudly shouted boo, NO need that's not scare tactics more of giving you
a bloody heart attack tactics, a horror will scare you and keep you
edge of your seat on what's happening with atmospheric music in the
background. Several scenes reminded me of other horrors like Exorcist
and omen where she was pushing the pram with the child in, she had both
hands on the pram, then suddenly bent down to pick her keys up that she
dropped, while doing so the pram rolled into the road and got hit by a
truck.. But that's OK the child was safe because she had hold of it in
her arms close to her chest. was this some sort of magic trick to
impress pen & teller I like to know if it fooled them in how she did
it. Personally if I was to watch a story based on something true like a
doll , I would watch a independent film of it than a Hollywood film for
several reason, but main reason being is the makers of the indie film
would research the story and try to stick as closely as they could to
supposedly the real facts, where the Hollywood film would put there own
spin on it and exaggerate to suit themselves .
