1
hey, why didn't the director just let Keanu kill all the bad guys with his mind like in the Matrix?

this movie is a huge joke, i've never seen anything so ridiculous in my
life, it's even worse than runnning scared, keanu goes around and kills
everyone like he's god incarnate. i mean in the professional, at least
jean reno kills them in a very believable fashion, except when he
shoots the cops from the ceiling of the room. i mean in this movie,
nothing is believable, 30% of the people get head shotted while moving,
that's just retarded, and nobody can headshot john wick, nobody can
even shoot him in the arm, hands, leg, or feet. in the beginning, they
send a commando squad to his house, like 10 people, they are getting
killed one by one or two by two. i mean that's so retarded, even if
these guys don't know what they are up against, the fact that ten of
them are ordered to kill one guy would tell them they are up against
someone good. i mean john just kills them one by one and headshots them
like its nothing, i mean i can just fire blindly while he's fighting 2
of my buddies and get at least a shot on him, then i'll just empty the
clip into him or go in and empty it into his head. there's a scene
where the boss leaves 2 goons to take care of john wick who was hand
cuffed, after seeing like 50 of their fellow goons headshoted, you
figure they wouldn't leave much to chance. but no, they decide to
suffocate him to death with a plastic baggie!!! they hardly even
tortured him before doing it. and they exposed themselves to open
windows. I would've just put 3 shots into his head. john's friend
violated the code by helping him when he said he's gonna kill him and
he was ratted out by a female assassin, but that earned her death, wtf?
what did she do wrong? john's friend violated the code, why can't he be
ratted out? I don't even know why the directed bother to give the bad
guys a chance, why don't they just bring back neo and keanu can just
off them all with his mind and the movie will be 5 seconds long. oh by
the way, keanu can't act, i can grab any random people on the street,
and chances are they'll be at least as good.
