9
A visceral tour de force on every single level. A mesmerising study on the human condition. Film of the year for sure.

Five years we waited for There Will Be Blood and five years we waited
for The Master. With that amount of time between films, it's hard not
to expect a complicated grand epic that will cut deep into the soul
like Magnolia. Hell, that only took two years. Perhaps Anderson's
period dramas are grand epics on a different scale, but they are
visceral examinations of the human condition rather than the hugely
emotional core. Every film, bar Sydney/Hard Eight or whatever, of
Anderson's make my top 100 and I fully expected it to join the rest.
Magnolia is basically tied for my all-time favourite film which is
enough to make him a favourite. His films have now become events that
last for months before and after they've been released so it surprises
me that The Master is such a simplistic film. I also expected something
super serious and forgot that while Paul Thomas Anderson likes his
films to have a weight and purpose, he also always incorporates his
sense of humour, whether dark or juvenile.On a technical level, The Master is outstanding yet subtle. The texture
of the film's colour palette feels straight from the 1950s and the
composition feels even more Kubrick-esque than There Will Be Blood,
with a focus on the centre of the screen and similar pacing to The
Shining in particular. It's a hypnotic experience which lasts all the
way to the walk out of the theatre. The sound design contributes
heavily to this effect, as sudden bursts of kinetic activity are kept
strangely in tone with the mundane, rather than emphasising on big
dramatic moments. What surprised me most was the score, which is
possibly, excluding all the songs that have been on Anderson's
soundtrack, my favourite of any of his films. It constantly felt like
an orchestra tuning up, which could reflect the characters and story,
as they build up and rarely resolve. While the film's aesthetic is
entrancing, it doesn't have the sensory overloading punch of his other
films, but is certainly not minimalist.As with Daniel Day-Lewis' Plainview before, Joaquin Phoenix's Freddie
Quell is a revelation. A forceful and physical transformation that's
utterly electrifying to watch. He spends the film constantly contorted,
hunched back with a strained expression, feeling like the broken man
that his character is inside. Anderson has clearly been fascinated with
these types of protagonists as Adam Sandler's Barry Egan of Punch-Drunk
Love clearly belongs among them. Quell is on two modes - fight and have
sex, but there's a deeply wounded and sensitive part on the inside
where the kind of characters Anderson explored in Magnolia are hiding.
However, my favourite performance of the film was Philip Seymour
Hoffman's charismatic turn as Lancaster Dodd, where he just completely
solidifies himself as my all-time favourite actor. While the narrative
is incredibly primitive and simplistic making it almost underwhelming
at first, it could be said that Quell represents the id, Dodd
represents the ego and Dodd's wife represents the superego, rounding
off the film's psychological purpose in a very incredibly profound way
showing the vicious cycle of humanity. It puts humans back on base
level and studies where the human condition flows to. It's all
relateable in how it shows the pathways your life takes. Film of the
year for sure.9/10
