3
So much potential ... down the tubes

What a load of nonsense. Those were 127 almost completely redundant
minutes. It doesn't happen often but after about the first third I was
considering leaving the cinema and only the ticket price kept me in my
seat and the vague hope that something might change. It didn't.Where to start? There was no build-up, no climax (more of an
anti-climax actually) and no development of any sort. There was a bunch
of characters that fit together awkwardly at best: imagine Buffy the
Vampire Slayer, Aragorn, Luke Skywalker and the guys from Hot Fuzz
against the Wicked Witch and the Terminator - that about covers it.
There was nothing that made you feel one way or the other about the
characters since they all had their reasons for doing what they did and
... since it fit the plot it was fine anyway and they didn't need to
change. The whole piece had a plot and general look and feel that
couldn't make up its mind if it was going to be Chronicles of Narnia,
Joan of Arc or ... Pan's Labyrinth? There were, however, a lot of
pointless details that didn't matter to the plot but they were just
there - take the queen's background, take the troll bridge, I could go
on. There were a lot of over-acted emotions, like the queen screaming
at people in slow motion for no apparent reason (both the screaming and
the slow motion); and I cannot remember seeing Snow White in any shot
in which she did not have tears in her eyes.I still wonder where they wanted to take this picture. Dark fantasy
with sex-appeal and gritty violence might have been a good idea but it
seems the writer and production designers were too busy being
politically correct to go all the way. There are a few things that I
liked, which is why I give the film a 3 but those are just details and
would contain spoilers. Like this the film just seems to try and
capture as many tastes as possible but delivers nothing really. And
then suddenly it's over as if the producer had said: "that's enough
now." Maybe that was actually a blessing in disguise. Reading the
original fairytale is still more exciting.
