3
So Disappointed.

Being the extremely huge Leatherface fan that I am, I have been looking
forward to seeing this movie since the first posters came out.
Literally have been counting down the days. I rushed to the theater on
opening night super excited because the Texas Chainsaw Massacre 3D
facebook page shared a lot of information about the making of the movie
and I expected it to be the best one yet. HOWEVER....I was so unbelievably disappointed in this movie it sickens me.If someone didn't know anything about the previous TCM movies, they
would think this was just your everyday horny teenager horror movie. I
believed that the TCM movies were always better than that, but now my
opinion has changed.The movie started out good, and had some good background information to
later understand the present scenes. However, once we met the main
characters of the movie it was obvious that it wasn't going to meet my
expectations. And the fact that Trey Sonz was in this movie(even though
his acting skills WERE better than I expected) totally ruined it for
me. Also the makers of the movie made a huge error with the the main
character's age (should be at least 40.) The killings were not that
severe, the only 3D parts were with the chainsaw (which didn't even
happen that much), and Leatherface was turned into this sweet character
that you began to feel bad for. And don't even get me started on how
Heather was acting at the end of the movie.The whole story line was completely changed. During the first half of
the movie it is just like the other TCM movies, but the last half turns
into some weird love/family reuniting story which I absolutely hated.
Plus the other movies really portrayed the fact that the movie was
based off a true story. This new TCM makes it seem more like a fantasy
horror movie. It's all just very confusing and makes me feel like a
woman with a glass of wine wrote the story line.See for yourself if you like but if you are a die hard TCM fan like I
WAS, then I highly expect you to be disappointed and don't spend money
on it. Thank god I got movie theater gift cards for Christmas...
