4
serious subject turned into empty action flick

This was a major disappointment. Despite so much of the story depending
on technical details, the movie communicated next to nothing. In the
early scenes on the rig, people were shouting at each other, unable to
understand each other because of the background noise. However, the
audience was made to suffer the same thing, having no idea what people
were saying. It turns out they were asking if a "cement test" had been
completed, and after some time, after they were indoors and checked
with various people, they discovered that the test had not been
completed. So why was the audience made to go through the nonsense of
not hearing what people were saying? It seemed a ridiculous plot point
to portray in such an annoying way. The significance was that the test
had not been completed, not that it took a few minutes to find that
fact out because it was too noisy outside for people to talk.Then began a number of discussions about technical matters. Little
effort was made to help the audience understand any of it. Even the few
diagrams and supposed shots of what was happening beneath the waves
were far from enlightening. I think we were just supposed to let us the
technical talk slide over us as mumbo-jumbo only engineers would
understand. For my part, I began to think I'd rather have been watching
a PBS documentary about the incident that so that I would know exactly
what happened.Once the disaster begins, very little effort is made to continue the
narrative. There's a skeleton story of a few crew members saving each
other and trying to get off the rig, but the vast majority of the time
we just see explosions and flying debris, over and over and over, an
endless series of quick cuts, each scene lasting only a few seconds,
with lots and lots of noise, of course. Despite the action and colour
and noise, it all became a tiresome. At the end of the movie we see photos of the actual people involved in
the incident. None of them, of course, looked like glamorous movie
stars like Marky Marky or Kate Hudson. The roles required no great
acting talent. Did the producers really have to hire big-name Hollywood
names to fill those roles (one of the producers was Marky Mark). It
seemed to be a great opportunity to use some lesser-known actors.
