8
Renner and Arterton:  Killer Combination!

I couldn't believe my eyes when I first saw the poster for "Hansel and
Gretel Witch Hunters" because it actually puts together my two favorite
current movie stars, Jeremy Renner and Gemma Arterton! I liked Gothic
interpretations of fairy tales like "Snow White and the Huntsman". And
I also liked the "supernaturalization" of historical figures like
"Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter" a lot. This film seems to be a cross
of those two types, and so is one film I made sure I would watch this
once it opened.Hansel and Gretel starts as we all know them from the fairy tale,
children left by their parents in the woods. They were lured by a house
made of candy, and was captured by the wicked witch who lived inside.
We all know how the tale ends, when Hansel and Gretel push the witch
into the oven. But that was just the beginning of the movie, for that
was when this brother-sister team launch their career as mercenary
witch hunters. When a mysterious series of missing children terrorizes
a small town, its mayor hires Hansel and Gretel to look for the witches
responsible and kill them.That was one shallow story line I know, but I really enjoyed myself
while watching this movie. Yes, the gore factor was really high, but
everything appeared to be done with tongue strictly in cheek. The
actors Renner and Arteron are unquestionable bad-ass! They fit the
titular roles very well. You will meet a new, more interesting "Edward"
here. The CG and production design were quite good and imaginative. It
was fun to spot traditional witch lore in the scenes, even as they took
liberties to invent their own lore.As I mentioned, the film does not shy from bloody violence, as the
envelope is pushed to graphically show various mechanisms of death,
from crushing to exploding - close-up! There was a brief scene of a
nude village beauty Mina (Pihla Viitala) as she seduces Hansel. There
were even unexpected modern-day swear words during the witch battles.
With all of these scenes, I do not really know how it got a PG-13
rating in this country! Anyway, despite and maybe because of all these
surprises, I found the whole film a lot of grown-up fun, a very
entertaining one and half hours.After the movie, I found out that the director was Tommy Wirkola, the
same guy who directed the Norwegian Nazi zombies in the snow movie
"Dead Snow." So that is why his strange Tarantino-esque sense of humor
is all over this film. I am a fan! I will be awaiting his next project.
However, for all the fun I had watching this film though, I think they
should be happy with what they have now. I think a H&G sequel would
already be pushing their luck.
