3
I Hated This Movie

Every Christmas, my sisters have this new tradition where they take my
mom and I and go see a movie. Last year, we saw Daddy's Home. This
year, we saw Why Him? Oh boy...Firstly, when I saw the trailer for this movie, I thought it looked
stupid, unfunny, and really annoying. But I choose not to judge a book
by it's cover, so I went and saw it. Besides, it's something to do.What I got out of this film was a real bad experience. For starters,
it's one of those modern comedies that think that just plain swearing
and private part jokes are funny. They're not. Swearing could be funny,
but you have to make it funny by adding something to the swear. For
example, the Angry Video Game Nerd saying things like "F*ckfarts". The
main character, Laird, is pretty much nothing but a walking swearing
and sexual humor machine. All that spews out of this guy's mouth is
constant cursing and talking about wanting to plow his girlfriend's
mother.... Eww. He's played by James Franco, who I actually respect as
an actor and even a filmmaker. But he's really got to pick better
movies. As for the comedy, well... Like I said before, it's nothing but
swearing and sex jokes. Only a few random bits got a laugh out of me,
like when Laird's trainer or whatever makes some random noise at a
party, since I didn't see that coming. As for performances, well...
James Franco is a complete annoyance, and the rest of the actors are
passable. But the one I really feel bad for is Bryan Cranston. Seeing
him go through all these lame comedic scenes, it doesn't feel like he's
acting, it actually feels like he's really suffering on set. I mean,
who could blame him? If you had to go through all this failed comedy,
you'd be feeling miserable, too. Speaking of failing on things, this
movie fails on the heart aspect, which seems to be absent from most
comedies of today. You see, in a movie like this, there's always a
scene where the straight man comes to understand the goofball and sees
that he's not that bad of a guy. In Daddy's Home, they played it well,
but here? All I remember is just Bryan Cranston randomly having a
liking to James Franco, even though he didn't really change his ways or
Cranston didn't really see the good in him.Overall, this movie is another one of the typical comedies that is shat
out from Hollywood these days. It's annoying, it's unfunny, and it's
completely stupid. Even though I hated this movie, there was one thing
I actually liked, and that was a scene where Laird is going "cheap
cheap cheap" to his chickens, only because this seems like a subtle
foreshadow to the upcoming Disaster Artist movie that James Franco is
attached to.
