10
A quite beautiful adaptation of a Disney classic

Right now Disney's current trend with their live-action films has been
a series of live-action re-imaginings of their animated classics.
Obviously this has proved to be a rather polarizing tactic amongst
certain fans, namely because they believe that these are intended to
replace the original films. Well I can assure you that this ain't the
intention. You see the internet has this mentality about remakes that
they're supposed to replace the original when that's not the case.
Hell, even if they don't end up being very good, the original is not
tainted in any way. And that's been the case with Disney's live- action
remakes, even the ones that haven't been well-received like the 'Alice'
films and 'Maleficent'.'Cinderella', however, was the first of these remakes to actually be
well-received by critics and rightfully so as it truly is a beautiful
new adaptation of the story that Disney first told in their 1950
animated classic. The original 'Cinderella' is easily one of my
all-time favorites when it comes to Disney's animated films so I was
really excited to see this new version and I absolutely loved it. Sure
it's basically just the same story as the original but it manages to
update it by doing some things better than the original. Namely, the
relationship between Ella and the Prince in this version is much more
developed compared to the original where they immediately fall in love
and only share a few scenes together. Lily James is absolutely
fantastic in the role of Ella while Richard Madden proves to be, for
lack of a better term, a very charming Prince Charming. Of course the
rest of the cast is fantastic as well, from Cate Blanchett's excellent
take on Lady Tremaine to Helena Bonham Carter's scene-stealing turn as
the Fairy Godmother.But like the original, the film has gotten some flak from feminists
over its title character, Cinderella. The argument is that the
character is too passive of a protagonist who only sits around waiting
to be rescued. Now this is an argument I've never really agreed with.
Sure Cinderella doesn't really do as much compared to some future
Disney princesses but there's more to her than that. She really
deserves credit for being able to put up with all of the crap she gets
thrown her way by her evil stepmother and stepsisters. The film very
much maintains the theme of encouraging people to 'have courage and be
kind'. And let's face it folks... those are good words to live by in
today's age.Like I said before, these Disney remakes aren't replacing the
originals. They're just here to serve as interesting new takes on their
original source material. And as much I know I'm going to get a lot of
flak for this by those who are opposed to the remakes... I think this
new Cinderella is better than the original. Don't get me wrong the
original is still an animated masterpiece but as a whole I feel that
Kenneth Branagh delivered a fantastic adaptation that both reflects the
original while also being its own thing.
