10
Flawless bank robbers vs Texas Rangers action-drama and characters study

"Hell or High Water" (2016 release; 105 min.) brings the story of two
brothers, Toby and Tanner. As the movie opens, we see them rob two
Texas Midlands Bank branches in rapid succession. It's only later that
we learn why. After the second heist, the Texas Rangers are informed,
and Marcus, who is going to retire in three weeks, wants to do one
final case before going off into the sunset. At this point, we are 10
min. into the movie, but to tell you more of the plot would spoil your
viewing experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it all
plays out.Couple of comments: this is the latest movie from Scottish director
David Mackenzie, and here he brings to the big screen the outstanding
script by former actor Taylor Sheridan, who blew us away last year with
"Sicario", my No.1 movie of the year in 2015. Here the story focuses on
the two brothers, one a divorced dad and the other just released after
a 7 year prison stint. The brothers are played by Chris Pine (MILES
away from the recent Star Trek Beyond) and Ben Foster. But the best
performance comes from Jeff Bridges as good ol' Marcus, always short on
breath and "sitting on the porch, practicing my future", when his
partner asks him why he is sitting outside his hotel room. Bridges has
gotten many acclaims over his career, and I don't know that this one
tops them all, but it sure comes close. Add in the beautiful landscape
of the southwest (New Mexico standing in for Western Texas), plus a
gorgeous soundtrack fro Nick Cave and Warren Ellis, and it all comes
together like a perfect cocktail. I'm trying to think of any flaws in
this movie, but I can't think of any, hence my rating of 5 stars (which
I rarely give).The movie opened this weekend at my local art-house theater here in
Cincinnati, and I couldn't wait to see it. The Friday early evening
screening where I saw this at was attended nicely, and I bet you with
outstanding word-of-mouth a guarantee, this movie will gain strength at
the box office in the weeks to come. Pretty sure this will pick up a
lot of attention come the awards season at the end of the year. "Hell
or High Water" is HIGHLY, HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
