7
Under-appreciated like a fresh snowstorm

The Snowman is a psychological thriller based upon Jo Nesbo's
critically acclaimed novel of the same name. This film received mixed
to negative critics but I have to disagree. Despite a few flaws, this
film is overall above average in my book. Let's take a look at what
several critics had to say and compare their points to my personal
experience.Many people complained that the movie didn't do the novel any justice
and was missing several elements. I have to disagree because a movie
can never be fully faithful to the original novel. That would also be
quite unimaginative as you could simply stick to reading the novel if
the movie had the very same characters, contents and dialogues.
Overall, I think the movie portrayed the most important characters,
events and locations and had a very appropriate length around two
hours. If the movie had been longer, it would have overstayed its
welcome and lost the audience's attention.Several critics say that the movie has a confusing timeline and feels
incoherent. This isn't the case at all. The movie starts with an
obvious and important flashback that introduces us to the serial killer
and why he has become such a monster. The only other flashback shows us
a police officer and later on detective in Bergen who was investigating
a case related to what would turn out to be the serial killer's crimes.
The content of the flashback as well as the portrayed investigator are
very important for the film and add some crucial depth to it. Aside of
these two flashbacks, the film has a perfectly coherent chronological
order with a strong exposition, an elaborate rising action, an intense
climax, a gloomy falling action and a very short resolution that
doesn't overstay its welcome.I have read in many reviews that the potential of the actresses and
actors isn't fully exploited. I have to disagree once more. Michael
Fassbender was convincing as desperate police officer who was
struggling with his alcohol addiction, his complicated family situation
and the complex case. He performed this character with its credible
flaws and strengths in a very authentic way. Rebecca Ferguson was just
as convincing as young, energetic and dynamic officer with a mysterious
hidden agenda. This actress also portrayed a credible character with
amazing strengths and complex weaknesses. The supporting actresses and
actors also did an excellent job from the pervert businessman to the
disillusioned teenager. I would even go as far to say that this
psychological thriller had some of the greatest acting performance and
most interesting characters in recent memory.Add a constantly gloomy atmosphere, stunning landscapes in and around
Bergen and Oslo and twisted finale and you have a very well- made genre
movie.The only reasons why this movie didn't get an even better rating are
the fact that the first third of the movie overstays its welcome and
takes too much time to introduce characters and get the actual story
started and that the story itself isn't the most original one and at
times quite predictable if you are familiar with other genre movies and
novels. Obviously, the source material has to be blamed for the latter
downside and not the script.That being said, The Snowman is an overall enjoyable thriller with a
gloomy atmosphere, stunning landscapes and great acting performances.
While it might not be among this year's greatest film, one should
ignore overtly harsh and biased critics and give this movie a fair
chance. Genre fans should at least appreciate it.
