8
Much Better Than People Would Lead You To Believe

So much negativity for a film that is far, far superior to the Raimi
cheese-fest astounds me that it's a kin to praising Pearl Harbour over
Saving Private Ryan in my opinion.This version, like it's prequel, is so much better than any of the
Raimi films in all aspects from action, story, and CGI that it's no
contest for me. In saying that though, I think the only part of this
version I didn't really like was the way the Green Goblin was
portrayed. He actually looked like a cross between Wolverine and a
leprechaun and he was more laughable than menacing. Other than that
however, this is a much more enjoyable film than any of the others.The story for the film, while being pretty predictable, is very decent
for a super hero movie. I mean, how many super hero movies can have an
Award-winning story that is NOT original or predictable? They are all
the same in one way or another so for this story to be criticised more
over others is a bit laughable. There is more of a "love story" with
this sequel as well between Stacy and Parker, but unlike the way the
annoying relationship between Peter Parker and Mary Jane Watson was
portrayed in the Raimi films, this one is not insufferable. And that's
coming from a guy who hates any sort of romance in movies.The main cast done a stand-up job once again with Garfield and Stone
doing well with their continuation of Parker/Spider-man and Gwen Stacy.
Jamie Foxx and Dane DeHaan were excellent in their roles as Electro/Max
Dillon and Green Goblin/Harry Osborn respectively, especially DeHaan as
Harry Osborn who brought a sly, sneaky, and very snake-like menace to
the character. I also liked the Stan Lee cameo again in this one....it
wasn't as good as his cameo in the 1st film, but it was still a nice
touch.Sam Raimi may have brought us a more up-to-date take on Spider-man but
Marc Webb has made the franchise more enjoyable with less cheese.
Ignore the hate and judge for yourself....you may just enjoy it as much
as I did.
