4
I Can't Believe

"Silence" is en experience, a trip into the hell some "padres" went
through during their attempt to spread the Christian faith in Japan
during the 1600's. The film tries to give us a peek into the treatment
of the priests once the locals decided to institute a policy that found
the practice of forbidden doctrines illegal and punishable. When the
movie opens, we go straight to the depiction of some of the ways
Japanese tortured some of the Christian followers.Next, plans are approved to start searching for one missing priest.
It's the duty of two young priests to locate him, save him, maybe even
do a little Christian work to save and enlighten a few souls. This is
where the problem begins: There's something sloppy about the way the
quest is introduced, and we have three characters who don't seem to
even believe whatever comes of their mouths. One looks doubtful, the
other is eager but his his eyes don't project any fire, and one seems
to have wandered from another period, setting, and faith, maybe even
another picture. He looks militant, irascible, doubtful this will have
a positive ending. It seems as if he knows this is all futile--their
enterprise and maybe the whole act of watching this film.When the two young men arrive in Japan, our own torture begins, as we
listen to dialog that is both incomprehensible and stilted. Never we
get into believing that these people have any commitment to anyone but
themselves. I'm not sure if it is the acting, the directing, the
endless scenes that appear to go in circles, never revealing or truly
pulling all the different layers of a complex theme. The setting is
dark, grungy, inhospitable, and very foreign. It is never clear why
they decide to start their journey in the middle of the winter, or what
appears to be the very foggy season in this island. It becomes
annoying.Bring on the never ending series of psychological, physical, and
amazingly, very little exploration of theological questions. In "The
Last Temptation of Christ" one is willing to overlook some strange
casting choices because the central figure is powerful, and well played
by DeFoe, giving us a new perspective of what one of the most famous
people in history must have gone through. Here, Rodriguez looks lost,
both within the story, and Garfield is never anything but a selfish,
whiny, and sick looking man of the cloth. I couldn't help thinking
about the other long suffering fictional character of the year, Lee in
"Manchester by the Sea". At least, we had a solid portrayal of pain,
guilt, and impotence. "Silence" doesn't even give you a hint of any of
those emotions.In addition, the length of the film is unbearable. Much doesn't happen
for minutes. We have shots of the surroundings, conversations that
highlight the redundancy that weakens the film. It is not as if there
was nothing to discuss or explain. It felt like a jackhammer kept going
and going, keeping us from engaging, from developing any sort of rhythm
and connection to the material. The depiction of the torture and
persecution never stopped, getting to the point that the ordeal of the
troops captured by the Japanese in a recent World War II film appeared
more like a prank by a bully. The torture scenes are not something to
avoid because they're too graphic; however it feels like the ones being
tortured are the members of the audience because we either have to
suffer through the weak dialog which goes nowhere or another way in
which the bad guys show their bad qualities, and/or, the Christians
keep experiencing hell.There is a very reliable team behind the production. Sadly, there is
also a pervasive realization that nothing really works. Landscapes and
close ups are admirable in their clarity but drained of any emotions.
The lack of musical score is jarring making the "silence" way too
overbearing and boring. Costumes and sets might be accurate but feel
empty because the characters are poorly presented, and I was wondering
where the editor went because we could have easily removed 1/2 of the
film, and we would have gotten the same amount of pertinent
information. The only scenes that appeared to really work involve Liam
Nesson, an actor whose presence and delivery allows us to have an idea
of what really is going on. To make matters even worse, this makes
every other performer look even worse.If anyone wants to see how spirituality can be shown, with and without
the explicit reference to a particular faith, through beautiful
cinematography and the perfect marriage of sound and visuals, check
Mallick's "The New World". For now, some real silence seems more than
appropriate.
