1
Yet another Hollywood con-job

Yet Another Hollywood Con-job!It ain't "West Side Story", which is quite possibly the best musical
ever made.It also ain't "Singing in the Rain", which is arguably the best postwar
musical made in the Hollywood tradition.It also ain't "Top Hat", rated by many as the best Rogers/Astaire
musical.It also ain't "Moulin Rouge", which was a riot of great music, comedy,
genuine drama, and emotion.And it ain't even "Les Misérables", arguably the finest ever stage
musical which was ruined on film by a non-professional singing cast who
could barely sing in tune, (Anne Hathaway excepted).As with other 'duds' that are adored by the professional critics and
film insiders, such as "Birdman" and the recent "American Honey", it
seems to be yet another case of the "Kings New Clothes". Nobody dares
to criticize. We are told by the experts that La La Land it is absolutely brilliant
and when we go to see it we will swoon in the aisles, barely able to
find the superlatives to describe how much we loved it.Yet if you scroll down the user reviews of this smash hit musical, in
among the glowing 10 out of ten-star reviews, you will find a fair
sprinkling of one-star reviews. Not five or six or seven stars … no,
just 1-stars among the 10-stars.It doesn't make sense – why do all these people give it ten stars and
others only one, with headlines such as "Painfully Bad Film Musical",
"They Don't Make Them Like They Used To", and "So Disappointed!" "Been
There, Seen That" and "Visceral hatred for a con job"If you are wondering why is it that some people can love it and others
hate it – go and read some of the one-star reviews. The reviewers are
movie lovers, (like me), and many are movie-musical lovers, (like me),
and they intelligently articulate with tremendous clarity why La La
Land has been ridiculously over-hyped, and why the endless publicity
has simply turned 99% of the movie-going public into one enormous flock
of sheep.So what's wrong with it?In a single word, it is INSIPID. (Insipid: lacking in qualities that
interest, stimulate or challenge; dull, vapid, flat….)The songs are insipid.Even though I am partial to jazz - and some of the jazz sequences with
John Legend do sparkle - in general, the music score is mundane to a
fault and the tunes are instantly forgettable.The singing is insipid.Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling do their best, but they are NOT
professional singers, and I suspect you could find better singers at
any local amateur dramatic musical production. The movie directors of
old were smart enough to understand that if their stars cannot sing,
such as Natalie Wood in "West Side Story", then dub in a decent singer.
How many people ever realized that Natalie didn't actually sing those
wonderful songs?The dancing by Stone and Gosling is insipid.Again, they do their best but they are NOT professionals. In some
sequences, you can almost sense the dance instructors off camera
shouting out "Stop! one step left! one step back!" and so on. They are
sooo… wooden.The ensemble dancers are pretty much OK, but to be honest, there are no
really great, original dance sequences that astonish and astound you-
nothing that even comes close to the kind of stuff we have seen in the
movie musicals of the past. Frankly, I can see better dance sequences
every week in "Strictly come Dancing" or "Dancing with the Stars" than
I saw in La La Land.The story is insipid.It takes forever to get going and for the first half of the movie you
have to pinch yourself to keep watching these insipid characters
playing out thoroughly unoriginal, utterly boring story. You really
don't care what happens to either of them.The Story Struggling actress meets struggling jazz pianist. Pianist makes good,
actress dumps him because he opts for "wealth and fame" over his
musical principles – whatever that may mean. The actress gives up, and
goes home to mom; successful pianist comes to the rescue and persuades
her to go to one last audition. Guess what? She makes it and becomes a
star, and the two stars go their separate ways.What an enthralling story, don't you think? This review hardly
qualifies as one of those containing spoilers, as the story is so
insipid.Okay, so is anything good?Yes – the cinematography and editing are good, as you might expect of a
movie with a budget exceeding 30 million dollars. They can afford to
hire to very best technicians that money can buy – and they do.But a good cameraman and a good editor, and a good costume designer and
a good set designer, and so on, do not a good movie make. These
wonderful technicians were already let down from the start by director
Damien Chazelle, who wrote the insipid story and by Justin Hurwitz who
penned the insipid music.If you've got nothing better to do, and like me, you hate all the
Hollywood franchise trash that fills our cinema screens these days,
then you might do worse than spend a couple of hours snoozing through
this piece of insipid, sleep-inducing rubbish.But if you expect to be uplifted and leave with a fine tune ringing in
your ears, then you're in for a major disappointment.Unless you're one of the sheep… baa aah…
