6
Interesting angle, still scary.

When sisters Lily and Victoria are left in the woods after a series of
horrific events leaves them orphaned, how would they survive for the
next five years until they are eventually rescued? Have no fear, Mama
is here. The debut feature from Spanish director Andres Muschietti has
some plot hole, but still delivers the goods in a scary, almost
poignant way.In Mama, there are similarities to the American version of The Ring in
the way some of the scenes are shot in that grainy, static, antiquated,
black and white style. Horror/ghost film fans might think parts of the
film are clichéd and they would be correct. However, the two sisters in
the film (played by Megan Charpentier and Isabelle Nelisse) make for
interesting viewing. As Victoria and Lilly, the two are feral creatures
having lived in the wild the bulk of their lives. Even after being
taken in by their uncle (Game Of Thrones' Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau, Lilly
still prefers to run around on all fours, eat with her hands while on
the floor, and sleep under her bed. Her speech is relegated to growls
and grunts with a few words mixed in. Her big sister, Victoria has a
faster time assimilating to the civilized world. She even begins to
cozy up to her uncle's punk rock girlfriend Annabel (Jessica Chastain).What makes Mama work is the relationship between the female characters.
Chastain ( Take Shelter, Zero Dark Thirty) has the lead role. She's the
girlfriend, but becomes the unwilling stepmom to the two girls. The
girls accept her to different degrees, but still cling to each other
first and foremost. They also cling to "Mama" and vice versa. Thus what
you have is a battle of wills between the supernatural and the living
world with the emotional and physical well being of two little girls
hanging in the balance. Maybe the presence of Barbara Muschietti
(sister of the director) as one of the producers and writers of the
film had some influence on having women as the driving force.In addition, Mama might feel and look like the style of Guillermo del
Toro film. That could be because he executive produced the film. If you
are familiar with his work, you can see his hand in guiding this maiden
voyage. Even so, Mama stands on it's own merits. It's far from perfect.
The acting, especially from the kids, some trippy and macabre imagery ,
and a bit of a twist might make you want to sleep with the lights on.
