10
Absolutely Excellent.

Teenager Zach Cooper (Dylan Minnette) and his mother Gale (Amy Ryan)
move from New York to the small fictional town of Madison, Delaware.
His new neighbors are a girl named Hannah (Odeya Rush) and her
mysterious author father "Mr. Shivers" (Jack Black), who tells him to
stay away from his daughter. At his new high school where Gale becomes
the new vice-principal, Zach meets and befriends Champ (Ryan Lee), a
socially awkward student who is often bullied. One night, Zach hears
Shivers and Hannah arguing from his window, followed by Hannah
screaming. When he calls the police to investigate, Shivers assures
Officer Stevens (Timothy Simons) and Officer Brooks (Amanda Lund) that
the scream was from a movie. The officers lecture Zach about wasting
the police's time and leave as Gale reprimands Zach.Suspicious of Shivers and fearing Hannah is in danger, Zach anonymously
calls Shivers and pretends to be a police officer and tells him to come
to the police station for further questioning. Once he is gone, Zach
and Champ break into Shivers' house in search of Hannah. They find
several manuscripts from the Goosebumps book series, all of which are
locked. They unlock The Abominable Snowman of Pasadena, but are
confronted by Hannah who assumes they are burglarizing the house. Zach
clears up the misunderstanding. But when he accidentally opens the
unlocked book, the Abominable Snowman emerges from it and breaks out of
the house. In the ensuing chaos, the Night of the Living Dummy
manuscript is accidentally unlocked as well. Zach, Champ, and Hannah
pursue the Abominable Snowman to a local ice rink where it attacks
them, but Shivers appears and sucks it back into the book.On the way home, it is revealed that "Mr. Shivers" is actually R.L.
Stine, the author of the Goosebumps books. He explains to the three
kids that he created the books' monsters when he was a child to cope
with severe bullying. However, the monsters became real and he had to
lock them in their manuscripts. Returning to the house, Stine and the
kids are confronted by Slappy the Dummy (voiced by Jack Black), the
villain of Night of the Living Dummy who is angry about being
imprisoned. Before Stine can capture him, Slappy burns his own
manuscript and flees with the other manuscripts in The Haunted Car. The
Lawn Gnomes from Revenge of the Lawn Gnomes are also freed. Zach,
Hannah and Champ help Stine smash them into pieces, but each gnome
reforms itself making them realize that they cannot be destroyed.Slappy frees the other Goosebumps monsters, destroys their manuscripts,
and leads them on a destructive rampage across Madison where the Body
Squeezer from Invasion of the Body Squeezers Pt. 1 and 2 freeze the
entire police department. Zach suggests to Stine to write a new book
that will trap every monster, but he can only do it on a special
typewriter which is at the high school. He and the kids are attacked by
various Goosebumps monsters on their way to the school including Brent
Green the invisible boy (also voiced by Jack Black) from My Best Friend
is Invisible and a giant mantis from A Shocker On Shock Street. Will
Blake's werewolf form from The Werewolf of Fever Swamp pursues them in
an abandoned supermarket. They escape and Zach's aunt Lorraine (Jillian
Bell) hits the werewolf with her car. As Stine and the kids continue
toward the high school through the cemetery, Zach notices that Hannah
glows a ghostly blue in the moonlight. Before he can ask her about it,
a zombie bursts out of the ground. After they escape the zombies from
Welcome To Dead House and the Graveyard Ghouls from Attack of the
Graveyard Ghouls in the cemetery, he privately questions Stine about
Hannah's existence. Stine reveals that she is not real, but a
Goosebumps character he created after his wife died, though Hannah is
unaware of this.At the school, they find the typewriter and Stine starts working on the
new book. However, Slappy confronts Stine and breaks his fingers before
it can be finished. The monsters attack the school during a fall dance
where the giant mantis grabs a person and the swarms of bees from Why
I'm Afraid of Bees and the mutant plants from Stay Out of the Basement
get into the school. Champ rescues Taylor (Halston Sage) from Will
Blake's werewolf form by biting him with his silver teeth fillings and
they kiss. The students have to barricade themselves inside to keep the
other monsters out.Stine and the kids board a bus and lead the monsters away from the
school to an abandoned carnival on the outskirts of town. Slappy
catches up with them in the Funhouse and unleashes the giant blob from
The Blob That Ate Everyone. While Stine distracts the monsters, Zach
finishes the story, but is reluctant to open the book because Hannah
will be trapped inside it as well. Hannah reveals that she knew she was
not real all along and opens the book. Slappy and the monsters are all
sucked into it, and while Zach tries to hold on to her, Hannah accepts
her fate and is sucked in as well after they kiss.Some time later, Stine has started working at the high school as an
English teacher. After class, Zach asks him if he misses Hannah, but
Hannah suddenly reappears. Stine reveals that he wrote her back into
existence with another book. She and Zach kiss and leave school
together while Stine burns Hannah's manuscript and tosses it in the
garbage. As Stine prepares to leave the school, he sees the typewriter
typing "The Invisible Boy's Revenge" by itself revealing that Brent
Green had somehow evaded capture. Stine screams as his hand prints
appear on the cabinet's glass.This movie is absolutely excellent for all ages.
