8
All dressed up with somewhere to go!

Over the years there have been many quirky, eccentric characters
featured in Australian films such as Muriel's Wedding, The Castle and
Priscilla Queen of the Desert. The stories have been uniquely
Australian to be appreciated by Australian audiences but occasionally
they become worldwide hits like Crocodile Dundee. It's the laid-back
Aussie humour that international audiences sometimes just don't
understand which prevents the majority of Australian films from
crossing the cultural barrier. The Dressmaker has been successful at
the Australian box office for it features a story where the underdog or
misunderstood succeeds along with a story that promotes the Aussie dry
wit with dialogue that appeals to the everyday Australian.Myrtle 'Tilly' Dunnage (Kate Winslet) returns home to rural Australia
after spending time abroad developing her fashion designing skills. As
a child she was sent to a boarding school in Melbourne by Sergeant
Farrat (Hugo Weaving) for she was accused of murdering a boy who
bullied her. Her mother, Molly (Judy Davis) initially doesn't recognise
her and isn't convinced she's her daughter. She eventually accepts her
in her house and Tilly transforms it into a fashion factory where she
makes clothes for the women of the town. In the meantime, she becomes
romantically involved with Teddy McSwiney (Liam Hemsworth) whom she has
known since they were children. The town still hasn't forgiven her for
apparently killing the boy and believe she is cursed. Tilly will
virtually stop at nothing to exact revenge on those who did her wrong. The Dressmaker is a long way from being perfect but what it does offer
is an entertaining two hours that is well-paced and beguiling. There
might be a few too many flashbacks and slow motion sequences but the
compelling storyline featuring a wide range of interesting characters
allows the majority of the film to shine. Some of the depictions of the
characters might be broad but that's just the perfect fit for
quintessential Australians. A lot of the dialogue is witty and adds much to the Aussie humour on
show. Davis garners most of the laughs in a performance which
demonstrates her sensational acting ability. Winslet perfects the
Aussie accent with this being her second time playing an Australian
after 1999's Holy Smoke! Many of the scenes she shares with her screen
mother are hilarious. Weaving also has his turn in the spotlight with a
wonderful performance as the cross-dressing police officer. Hemsworth
plays it straight in comparison to his co-stars and reliably fulfills
his role as the love interest. Support actors such as Shane Bourne,
Sarah Snook, Kerry Fox and Barry Otto also succeed in projecting the
individual traits of their characters.Credit must go to the costume designs with the haute couture style
befitting of the movie title. With the story being reminiscent of a
Clint Eastwood western where the main character comes to town, mingles
with the locals then affects their lives one way or another, the music
score by David Hirschfelder has some resemblance to a western. It's an
exciting score that perfectly sets up the moods of the characters and
the theme of the plot. The cinematography by Donald McAlpine also
enhances the look of the film, ensuring that the rural town maintains
its 'western' appearance.Although clichés do affect the characters and story, the overall
quality of the film ensures that most viewers will be entertained.
Jocelyn Moorhouse (the director and co-writer) should be chuffed with
her film's box office success even though not all critics have praised
her work. Sometimes it's the majority you have to please, not the
minority. http://mlaimlai2.wix.com/magical-movie-review
