5
Blind Justice

(Rating: ☆☆ out of 4)This film is not recommended. In brief: The real crime is remaking this remake.GRADE: C+Hollywood rarely improves upon a remake, especially in the foreign film
genre. Such is the case, once again, in Secret in Their Eyes. Based on
its far better source, the 2010 Oscar- winning Argentine film bearing
the same name, this version unduly complicates an already complicated
plot with political corruption and a terrorist back-story that does
little to enhance the story. Whereas, both films intermesh the crime
tale with a love story between its two central characters, the American
reboot fails to successfully engage its audience with the latter
storyline. ￼Written and directed by Billy Ray, this film tells the story of an
unsolved murder that has haunted its characters for over a decade. The
filmmaker takes the essence of the earlier film and unlike that film,
raises the stakes by wisely personalizes the murder this time around.
Ray Caston and Jess Cobb are two FBI agents who arrive at the crime
scene, only to discover that the victim is Jess's daughter, Carolyn.
Her death haunts both agents over the years, including the acting DA,
Claire, who happens to be Ray's unrequited love. Throughout the past 13
years, Ray continues to hunt for Carolyn's killer and believes he has
finally found the culprit. He wants the case reopened and to also
reopen his relationship with his object of affection as well.￼An interesting premise, but the crime story never builds to much
excitement and the love story seems to go nowhere. A capable cast has
been assembled with Chiwetel Ejiofor as the brooding detective assigned
to the case. Even though the actor tries valiantly to add some depth to
his weakly-drawn character, he still comes across as an unhinged
vigilante rather than heroic cop. This character never seems realistic
or believable as written, nor do any of the characters in this version.
A miscast Nicole Kidman plays Claire as an ice princess type and has
zero chemistry with Mr. Ejiofor. In fact, the only reason to see this
remake is the powerful acting done by Julia Roberts as the grieving
mother. The actress downplays her beauty and gives a remarkably nuanced
performance that deserves Oscar consideration.￼As for the film itself, the script is muddled and the flashback
format's choppiness doesn't help matters. One can only tell past versus
present events by the hair and make-up aging process (or lack there of
with Ms. Roberts). Some of the supporting characters (an unethical
officer, the overly ambitious politician, the trusty sidekick, etc.)
become stereotypes and the dialog is standard TV crime drama. Secret in Their Eyes is a crime thriller without much thrills. The
murder mystery just does not blend with the love story and the
moviegoer becomes its final victim. Rent the Argentine film instead to
see how to skillfully combine both genres.￼NOTE: In my original review (June 3, 2010, go to archives in this blog
to read it, if interested), I bemoan the fact back then that remakes
are a less quality. Somethings just don't improve with age. Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.comANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com
