3
Not worth the time

I only went to see it because we bought a package at Sundance and were
forced to pick a movie for that day, and this seemed the best pick out
of a ton of undesirable options. The sad thing about this movie is that
it already won the Alfred P. Sloan prize based on it's "scientific"
merit....don't get me started on that, the science in this movie is
nothing more than loosely woven pseudoscience. In the paraphrased words
of my cousin, "It seems like it was an article written in the early
1900s about the concept of 'the eyes are the mirror to the soul' for
some pulp magazine by someone who wanted to write a scientific story
about it but didn't have enough scientific knowledge to do it,but did
it anyway, and then someone found this story and decided to make a
movie about it with pretentious and really shaky cinematography." Not to mention that in this movie, a white rich guy is able to go to
India and pluck a little girl off the streets and take her to a hotel
to question her without that being addressed at all in the film as
being incredibly problematic. Or how they sexualized the main female in
a stereotypical "wise because she has an accent and attractive because
she's not from here" way, giving her no real depth or wants or
motivations beyond the main male role and her efforts to convince him
in some spiritual belief of hers. To top that off, the beginning of the
movie involves the lead literally stalking this woman and it's shown to
be okay because apparently she was just playing hard to get and wanted
him to stalk her.There was also this weird subplot where there was some religious leader
at the hotel he goes to, the same hotel where he takes the abducted
Indian girl and questions her, and for a minute I was thinking the
storyline of the movie was going to turn around and that the main
character would be arrested for child abduction. But nope, the whole
appearance of this character had absolutely no relevance to the story
and was a total waste of time.And worse, 150 people were wait-listed for this movie. I heard people
muttering in the audience about how great it was. What a waste of two
hours.
