8
Unpopular opinion : I enjoyed it

While there were a few issues that I made this movie less good, this is
a decent blockbuster that's extremely entertaining.I was extremely hyped for this movie and was expecting much. Overall,
most of those expectations were met.A strong point of the movie is the jokes. One reviewer on the site
seems to think there were too many dick jokes. Here is my response. If
you watch and enjoy dumb comedies like "This is the end", "Why Him?" or
"The Hangover", this is no different and you will laugh a lot. I
laughed a lot at 90% of the jokes. They didn't fall flat. Another really good part of the movie is the action. There are some
really good action scenes that are beautifully shot. They are really
well done. While not on Fast & Furious 8 level, we do get some great
one liners.Baywatch was in general a pretty shallow movie when it comes to the
story, but one part of it was really good : Brody's character
development. While I may have been one of the few, I was engaged in his
character. He's a mess and he needs a place to belong.The main strong point of the movie was the heart. Not many movies are
able to have a team that's awesome and sticks together like in this
movie. This gave the movie heart and made it very fun to watch. This is
enhanced by some pretty good performances by The Rock, Zac Efron and
Alexandra Daddario.Now, for the aspects of the movie I didn't like so much, the story.
While the action and other good aspects compensate, the story was weak.
It was like a weak episode of NCIS. The suspense wouldn't be so bad if
it wasn't for one thing : the fact that the characters are playing
catch up with us when it should be the other way around. We already see
what the bad guys have done and it takes away the suspense. It was
really predictable. Like I said, this movie was hilarious but too many good jokes were seen
in the trailer. Even the scene of Brody and Mitch kissing was released
before the movie was out which is really disappointing. This happens
often in comedies.I've never watched the Baywatch TV show and that's probably why I
enjoyed this movie. IT was funny and had good action scenes and heart.
If you're a fan of "This is the end" like comedies, definitely don't
miss this one.
