1
The movie sucked. Worst 8 bucks i ever spent.

I saw it in the theater the night it came out and it sucked really
really hard, and this has to be the one film I've ever regretted paying
money to see. The fight scenes are filled with nothing but jump cuts, so you can't
tell what's going on until said fight is over. The story makes no sense
from what they were going with from the fifth movie (In the last movie,
RE: Retribution, the red queen's trying to kill Alice along with the
rest of humanity. In this one, it turns out she's trying to SAVE
humanity, which directly conflicts with retribution's story.)
Seriously, Watch the other five movies first, preferably in one
sitting, and then watch this one. You'll see exactly what I mean when I
say it sucked.The new people didn't even matter. They had time to bring in like a few
random new people, who die one by one as soon as they get into the
hive. They had Chris Redfield, Leon, Ada, Claire, and Becky, they could
have had these people survive (Oh yeah, it turns out they're all dead,
except for Claire, apparently and to make matters worse, they don't
even mention them except for a passing mention of Chris by Claire and
Alice then it's not talked about ever again.) and help Alice in her
mission, but instead we settle for a bunch of nobodies who got
introduced in the middle of the movie and then died like 30 minutes
later. These people didn't matter. Not even the one who turns out to be
an umbrella informant. And this is AFTER they built up that the people
from the last movie were going to play a significant role in the final
chapter.They set up all this cool stuff in the 5th movie, that we could have
seen at the beginning of TFC and instead they chose to hand wave it.Wesker barely did anything then he gets killed off in terrible way,
which they stress that the red queen can't kill umbrella employees,
despite the fact that she did in the first movie.Also they pretty much retconned the first two movies. Originally the
red queen was modeled after Angela Ashford, and in this abomination, it
turns out the red queen was modeled after James Marcus' (From the
games) daughter, who turns out to be Alice's DNA template (shocker,
Alice was a clone the whole time!). Which brings me to my next point.
Also, they made it a huge plot point that the red queen can't kill
umbrella employees, and yet in the first movie she slaughtered everyone
in the hive except Matt and Alice.The "Everyone is a damn clone" nonsense. They went hard with this after
extinction. Turns out the Dr. Isaacs we watched die in extinction, was
just a clone and it seems that he's leading three tank things that are
drawing zombies behind them, seems simple, right? Nope, turns out that
guy is a clone too. The real Dr Isaac was underneath raccoon city the
whole time.OH AND THE ENDING! God the ending sucked too! They made a big deal
about how Alice would die if she released the antivirus, which is
apparently airborne now, into the air and that this was the final
chapter, but what happens? She tosses it to the ground and goes
unconscious for a bit but survives. They wussed out on a perfect end to
Alice's tale and cemented her as a true Mary sue character.Just...If you're reading this Paul Anderson, You should have worked way
harder on this movie, because this movie is garbage. And I say that as
a fan of the other 5 movies. There was no reason for this to be this
terrible, I mean they even stopped showing it a week after it released
in my town, that's how bad it was.
