9
Bold, brave and beautifully weird.

You might expect a movie studio at the top of its game to play it safe
rather than strike out in new, bizarre directions. Certainly, it's hard
to imagine any other studio giving the greenlight to Guardians Of The
Galaxy - a huge blockbuster movie based on a title unfamiliar to anyone
who isn't a comics aficionado, starring a relatively unknown actor
playing a character most people have never heard of. And yet, Marvel
scores once again with its willingness to head off the beaten track.
GUARDIANS is a fun, fizzy delight, even as it mines some surprising
depths of emotion from its ragtag group of anti-heroes.Peter Quill (Pratt) - a human abducted from Earth as a child - has
grown up into an intergalactic thief who has no idea what he's getting
into when he takes possession of a mysterious Orb. Little does he know
that Ronan (Pace) - a genocidal Kree radical - will do just about
anything to get his hands on said Orb, including sending alien assassin
Gamora (Saldana) after it. Gamora, as it turns out, has an agenda of
her own. Trapped in an intergalactic prison (long story), Peter and
Gamora are forced into an uneasy alliance with three other misfits: a
brainy, sarcastic raccoon-like creature named Rocket (voiced by
Cooper), a giant tree by the name of Groot (Diesel), and the
vengeance-minded Drax The Destroyer (Bautista).The truth is that there's almost too much going on in GUARDIANS. Not
only do we meet a host of characters we've never met before, on a raft
of new planets teeming with brightly coloured life and detail, we're
also introduced to several plot lines all stuffed somewhat awkwardly
into the film. We have Ronan's planet-destroying aspirations, which are
somehow bound up with the evil plans of Thanos - that creepy purple-
skinned dude who popped up at the end of The Avengers. Peter's
kidnappers turned surrogate 'family' are also on the trail of the Orb,
turning up at moments both enormously convenient and inconvenient to
the plot. It all makes sense in the end, but until it all clicks into
place, it can make for a rushed, unsettling experience.But, despite its occasionally unwieldy script, GUARDIANS triumphs
because of the gang of scruffy losers (a term that will take on a
different, more heartfelt meaning during the film) at its heart.
Director James Gunn, who co-wrote the script, clearly feels a strong
affinity for each one of these outcasts, all of whom are easily outlaws
in some (if not all) parts of the solar system, each one battling - at
least initially - to save his or her own skin rather than to save the
world. It's fascinating to watch the five members of this unlikely
group slowly banter, bicker and batter their way into becoming a team.Most joyfully of all, Gunn never loses sight of the prickly, selfish
side of his characters. He gives them plenty of rich, emotional moments
- whether it's Peter and Gamora bonding over the loss of their parents,
or Rocket's ability to read a whole range of meaning into Groot's
extremely limited vocabulary ('I am Groot') - but never allows the film
to descend into dangerously sentimental territory.In fact, Gunn pumps up proceedings with a healthy, hearty dose of
humour. Films in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) have always been
more tongue-in-cheek than the likes of the considerably more dour Dark
Knight franchise, but GUARDIANS is a heady trip of a different order.
It practically delights in bursts of odd, subversive comedy, and
actually dares to punctuate its most epic face-off with a sly homage
to, of all things, Footloose.Pratt - so winning in TV's Parks And Recreation - holds the emotional
core of the film together. He exudes an easy, rakish charm that makes
Peter both dashingly arrogant and achingly vulnerable. He's matched
very well by Saldana, who is clearly delighting in the opportunity to
play the world-weary, no-nonsense Gamora - bred into a killer, born a
fighter. The rest of the cast does justice, too, to the film's cheerful
swing from drama to comedy and back again: Bautista brings unexpected
pathos to Drax's occasionally comical determination to avenge his
family against Ronan, while Cooper sounds completely unlike himself -
in a very good way - as a creature who hides a world of hurt beneath
his mouthy exterior. Even Diesel manages to find a great deal of depth
in a CGI character who only communicates via the same languid burst of
three words.If anything, GUARDIANS is let down by a trio of not particularly
threatening villains. Pace snarls and spits in heavy make-up, but can't
quite rustle up much in the way of nuance or genuine menace. Ronan is a
one-note madman, with so little in the way of backstory that he
automatically becomes less interesting. Thanos, too, now voiced and
performed in motion-capture by Brolin, doesn't get much to do beyond
lounge on his space throne. Only Gillan's cyborg Nebula manages a
smidgen of complexity; even then, she struggles to be half as
fascinating as her conflicted "sister", Gamora.Before the film was even released in cinemas, Marvel announced that a
sequel would be coming in 2017. It's a no-brainer as to why. The film
is smart, funny and quite wonderful on its own merits. But, even more
crucially, GUARDIANS is a gamble that pays off handsomely for Marvel.
It opens up the MCU in, quite literally, all directions. Don't be
surprised if you see our more earth-bound heroes heading into space
sooner rather than later. The film also adds a new cast of lovable
rogues to the MCU's roster of characters: a gang who, one might say,
are actually all the more heroic for being people who would ordinarily
be running in the opposite direction from any galaxy-guarding duties.
Frankly, we can't wait to see what they get up to next.
