10
Perfect Dredd

I'm a huge fan of the comic 2000AD and the character Judge Dredd since
1979, and this film completely satisfied me. They changed all the right
things and kept all the right things. Director Pete Travis tackled the
problem of filming a comic book by making something that looks nothing
like a comic book and more like an action movie shot on location, with
a simple linear plot that keeps rolling and never slows down.Megacity 1 is made markedly less futuristic than the comic in order to
become so believable that it is hard to tell where the real slums of
Cape Town end and the CGI kilometre high city blocks start. I have an
uncomfortable feeling that in less than a hundred years cities like
this may actually exist.The comic Judge's uniform works on paper but can't in real life - giant
golden eagles, shoulder pads and bronze name badges hanging off a
leather one-piece body suit would sag, wobble and look daft. The movie
gives us body armour that looks like it actually gets used whilst
keeping the helmet exactly the same. The effect is striking and
believable, like everything else in this film.The plot revolves around a drug which makes time seem to slow down a
hundred times, the perfect excuse for scenes of ultra slo-mo explosive
bloody (and beautiful) anatomically correct violence that earn this
film its 18 rating. Not a kid's movie at all. Every supporting actor
looks like they came out of a gang documentary, scarred, nasty, sweaty
and mean. Lena Headey totally kicks ass as the ruthless gang lord Ma
Ma, calmly relishing the deaths of her enemies, eyes sledging from
narcotic addiction.In a way this is Olivia Thirlby's movie, since she gets the character
arc, rookie judge Cassandra Anderson assigned to Dredd for evaluation
and finding herself on a very steep learning curve. She is vulnerable,
spikey and tough as called for, vital to the movie in order to balance
Dredd.How do you play Dredd? He is the opposite of a character. He has no
personal arc, never changes or grows. He has no sense of humour, the
comic finds that by placing utterly deadpan 'ol stony- face in ironic
situations that reflect off him. And where do you find an actor
prepared to wear a helmet obscuring everything but his mouth and chin
for the whole 95 minutes? Karl Urban must be a huge fan himself to play
the part so right. One reviewer described his performance as "ego-free"
and it is. I didn't see Urban anywhere in this movie, all I saw was
Dredd.Me and Dredd-heads everywhere thank you Karl. You smashed it.
