3
Is this Spielberg's worst movie?

Make no mistake, this is not art nor is it even a movie: in fact it is
nothing more than a recording of a play thats only aspirations is to be
shown in high school classes across the United States for many years to
come.My faults with the film:-Spielberg's Lincoln speaks only through tedious, predictable
allegories. These speeches are so boring that more than one character
simply walks away during it's interminable running. I wish I could have
walked away too.-Black people are treated as oracles and not human beings. The black
characters in this film exhibit no manner of humanity and are reduced
to simple plot devices. We don't care about their plight because
they're not like us. They're heartless machines.-Relations between races in this film are portrayed in a dishonest way.
Black soldiers and servants openly challenge and speak to Lincoln as if
he's a fellow black man. This isn't the way things were and pretending
that it was (from the very first scene!) simply disallows the film from
building any heart, any credibility, any weight or substance. We learn
quickly this is not a film about an important American historical
figure, it is a (very) liberal interpretation. Since we do not see how
poorly black people were treated we do not care about Lincoln's
ultimate success with his proposed 13th Amendment.-Characters do not develop, character arcs fizzle, conflicts left
unresolved. What of Mary Todd Lincoln's impassioned speech to Lincoln
regarding the enlistment of their son? She demands to be locked up in a
crazy house if the senior Lincoln permits his son to join Grant's side.
Well, Robert joined the army and Mary Todd is still in Washington. What
was the point of that scene other than to give Sally Field something to
do? Why are Sally Field and Joseph Gordon-Levitt even in this film?
They have no bearing on the narrative this film attempts to tell!Look, I did not expect this film to give an accurate representation of
Lincoln's life. What I did expect is that I would get a tight,
entertaining 2 hour slice of our greatest President's most critical
hour. Instead I got a pandering, meandering, vapid, and vacuous play-
on-celluloid treatment from one of the former cinema greats. This
preachy, hunky-dory disease has plagued Spielberg since we were treated
to those awful Present Day scenes in Private Ryan. Here it culminates
into a suffocating veil which absolutely ruins any hope of this film
being a success.Thoughtless, generic, boring drivel.
