9
A Monster Calls Tears To The Eyes

Robbie K back again with another review. This time, as you can read
from the site, we cover A Monster Calls, another novel based movie that
may have flown under the radar for most of you viewers. Many reviews
are calling it an unforgettable adventure and a new masterpiece for the
ages, but the question always remains if the advertisements are true.
So, let's dig up these roots and uncover the mystery of the tree
monster as we review the latest film. LIKES: • The Acting • The Emotional Story • The Beautiful ArtworkA Monster Calls has many good elements about it, but the first like is
the acting of both CGI and realistic characters. Lewis McDougall leads
the way as Conor, and plays the isolated child with the weight of the
world on his shoulder fantastically, especially in regards to the way
he looks lost in his mind. Felicity Jones impresses me as well as the
caring mother going through some very trying times. I can't tell how
much is the look and how much is her ability portray suffering, but the
woman's abilities continue to impress me. And Liam Neeson as the
monster is a welcome addition, as his rugged voice is a perfect match
for the design of the creature that somehow is filled with so much
wisdom (hello flora version of Asland). Solid acting is a good start, but the story was even more captivating
to me. A Monster Calls' plot is an emotional forest, filled to the brim
with tear jerking sequences that will leave many faces wet. For me, it
was because many of these problems are relatable, and were presented in
that theatrical manner (e.g. using a powerful music score) that hits
you from all fronts. And as the tale progresses, the suspense only
continues to build and bring you into the story. But this isn't just
necessarily a movie centered on entertaining you with drama, but once
more tries to teach you lessons as the relationship between boy and
monster begins to form. The tales that the Monster brings out are prime
lessons in the error of perception, the folly of judgement, and the
importance of empathy. These lessons aren't just randomly thrown in,
but go along with the main story and help build to the conclusion. But my favorite aspect, as well as many reviewers', is the artwork of
the movie. The real- life scenes contain beautiful settings, alongside
the efficient use of filters to help add some subtle emotion to the
scenes. Yeah, I know nothing special, right? Heck even the monster,
despite how well animated and designed he is doesn't hit the super
unique animation. However, what is impressive is the art styles used to
portray the monster's lessons. Two of the tales use different
animations styles to visualize the moral lessons, using brilliant
colors, broad strokes, and warped figures to add a haunted twist to the
normal fairy tales. The well-timed breaks from the mundane real life
visuals helps add that whimsical side to the story and help reenergize
the audience in this otherwise exhausting movie. DISLIKES: • Incredibly Sad Movie • Predictable Ending You don't want to
see coming • Would have Liked the Third Story to Have the animation It
is hard to find fault in this movie, because the movie is edited so
well and feels like a visualization of a well-developed book. However,
one big thing is the depressing cloud that looms over the entire movie.
We all know movies that depress us, but most have those ray of hope
moments that break the clouds of dismay. Not the case in this film.
Despite some of the more colorful experiences shown in the trailers, A
Monster Calls is not the fun loving, animated adventure you might think
it is. It's a very sad film, and there are few moments to help distract
you from what is to come. Yes, there is a massively predictable ending
and one you wish wasn't the case. I can't say much more, but the ending
(while adding suspense and tying things together) is something that
teases at the back of your mind and further plays hacky sack with your
emotions. A final, albeit minor dislike, is that I would have liked a third art
style for the final story. While the third tale is very well done, it
does not have the same art theme the others do. I would have loved for
them to finish with that same creativity, in a manner that mirrors the
theme of the lesson. Again, in the grand scheme it doesn't matter, but
that third style would have been a welcome addition to an already
beautiful movie. The VERDICTA Monster Calls is the first film to make me tear up in my years of
doing reviews. It's stunning example of the visual prowess of art, that
is well crafted to tell a story that will pull at many heart strings.
However, be warned that this movie is not your typical animated monster
meets boy adventure tale, but one that is meant to teach us some rather
important, albeit darker, lessons about life. Is it worth a trip to the
theater? I think so because of the visual styles and the roller coaster
ride of feelings this movie will generate. If you can't find the time
though… then hit this one on Redbox when you can. My scores are:Drama/Fantasy: 9.0 Movie Overall: 8.0
