1
What. Was. That?

I have just finished watching the fifth installment in the Resident
Evil series with my house-mates after getting psyched for the next
bought of cameos, action sequences and a view into the ever popular
theme of 'Zombie Apocalypse'. I've come away not only feeling robbed of
the overpriced 3D glasses, but confused and angry, much like fat kid
with no jelly. The movie opens with a fantastic sequence including a
slow motion rewind of the fallout from when the Umbrella Corporation
located our hero (Alice) aboard the supposed safe zone, a ship called
Arcadia. After watching the battle unfold, including the first (of what
soon becomes tiresomely many) Tom and Jerry-like showdowns between
Jovovich and Guillory (Valentine), the audience is treated to several
relayed shots of action scenes from the previous movies, all of which
is conveniently explained by Alices latest unkillable female friend,
Ada Wong (Bingbing Li). Helping the ladies escape are a team of male
characters, some referencing previous movies (Boris Kodjoe as Luther
West) and some as a nod to the original video games (John Uurb as Leon
Kennedy) What follows is two hours worth of unfinished plots, confusing
references, sudden appearances of cast members playing multiple parts
(Good Rodriguez, Bad Rodriguez) and more stock henchmen, some of which
are undead Nazis (yes, really). Large scale battle scenes take place in
famous cities like Moscow and New York while the invincible ladies and
their male friends (who get shot, but thats okay. 'Cause they're MEN)
stumble closer together to finally make their way out of the newest
Umbrella base, which is of course located in Russia. Underwater. And
ice. And there's submarines. Confused? Good. So after a lovely Dawn of
the Dead Esq scene that takes place just after the credits, Alice and
Wong find themselves discovering a clone child, who thinks Alice is her
mum. Alice decides to keep her brand new clone child, because, your
face, thats why. The addition of a sudden maternal bond from the
erstwhile stone cold undead killing machine feels out of place, so much
so that the wooden interactions between the cast from that point on
tells us that even the characters simply aren't buying it. The whole
movie plays out uncomfortably, somewhere between seeing a train crash
and hearing an old lady try to muffle a queef with her handbag. I
strongly advise you to wait for DVD.
