9
Charming And Gripping

I knew nothing about this film. Had seen no adds, heard no word of
mouth, pretty much nothing. I only found it only after tapping out the local AMC 24 and driving a
few extra miles to see something new.The premise was intriguing: What to do with a seven year old
mathematical prodigy caught between a cozy, loving household occupied
by her doting Uncle Frank and a one-eyed cat named Fred, and a
challenging but cold academic world ready to pace her on mental
treadmills for the rest of her life.McKenna Grace plays little Mary who's character is at the center of
attention whether she likes it or not. Mostly not.Grace's performance does raise a few eye brows as she very convincingly
plays a precocious and genius little girl plagued with boredom being
surrounded by the dead-weight of average students she has nothing in
common with.In fact, Mary's personality is also far developed beyond her peers,
exhibiting a sarcastic and jaded sense of humor more on par with a
bunch of 40-year olds downing a shot or two after a particularly bad
day at work.After Mary's abilities are discovered by her first grade teacher, the
inevitable battle for command of her future quickly unfolds.One very powerful supporting role is supplied by Lindsay Duncan who
portrays Evelyn the Grandmother. Evelyn is a poised and proper
Englishwoman armed with a titanium intellect few would want to
challenge. As the legal proceedings unfold, Evelyn verbally fire-bombs
the entire court room from the stand without batting an eye in her
fight for custody of Mary.Her arguments and assessments are hopelessly air-tight and seamless,
leaving Uncle Frank and his lawyer scrambling.Frank just wants Mary to be a little girl. Grandma wants to plug her
into The Matrix. Who will win? 'Gifted' is not without it's displays of some original laughs. My
favorite was a scene in which little Mary discovers her Uncle Frank is
sleeping with her 1st grade teacher, who one morning comes stumbling
into the kitchen wearing only a towel.Their reaction to each other is priceless.As to why this production is flying under the radar with virtually no
advertising or promotion is baffling.The hour-and-a-half flew by for me and left me with an odd feeling it
ended too soon. Aside from that, there was almost nothing wrong with
this film, at least not that I could find.Warm, unique and entertaining, 'Gifted' should stay with you for days
afterwards.A great family night movie.
