3
Did not like this movie at all - slow, predictable, and unlikely

3 is as generous as I can get on this review.I think most people, like me, wanted to like this movie because it
involves A) violence against women, and B) a depiction of Native
American hardship. By liking the movie, you indirectly show your
support for the causes, as it were.The movie was just not good. It started well enough, and I was not
dissuaded by the slow pace.Wheels fell off when - SPOILERS AFTER HERE - Jane shoots the young man
in the trailer. Totally unnecessary scene, and totally unrealistic. Ask
yourself this - what are the odds that a cop investigating a murder
ends up in a trailer with a guy who has done nothing wrong, but yet
opens fire on the cop and ends up getting shot? How about close to
zero? So now with the wheels off a fire breaks out to burn the
remaining structure down when there is a Mexican stand off (no slight
intended - I don't believe that's pejorative) among 10 different people
- Jane, the Tribal cop, two Star-Trek-Orange-Suit guys they bring
along, and 5 or 6 of the drilling crew guys, all of whom are armed to
the teeth. Everybody's got a gun drawn, and everybody's yelling to calm
down and back off. Finally, Jane, in a terrible alpha dog voice, claims
rank with her FBI status and tells everybody to put weapons away. But
then a guy with what appears to be an auto open fire from inside where
the guy who actually raped the girl is, and all hell breaks loose, with
bullets flying everywhere, Star-Trek guys and Tribal cop get killed,
but Jane survives, aided by Hurt Locker/Hawkeye, who then exacts your
desired blood lust revenge by making bad guy run in snow until he dies,
which ends up being a hundred feet and well short of the dead girl's
six mile run in the snow, which, I think, is supposed to show us how
tough she was? Ug. Awful, awful stuff. Had a chance to be very good,
then made the critical mistake of going to what they probably believed
were tried-and-true tropes, which did not fit the story at all.Also, a bunch of guys beating their friend to death because he wouldn't
let them molest his girl seems very far fetched.Just not good.EDITED TO ADD - sound track may have been the worst sound track I've
every experienced as a movie goer. Did not fit the scenes. Awful.
