8
Both lovingly referential and delightfully imaginative, this is a vivid, colourful and enchanting tale of whimsy and wonderment

To attempt a follow-up to a beloved classic such as 'The Wizard of Oz'
would seem entirely foolhardy; yet there is sheer magic in Sam Raimi's
'Oz: The Great and Powerful', an always engaging, consistently
entertaining and utterly bewitching fairy tale fable that elegantly
evokes the 1939 classic while being entirely in tune with the
sensibilities of modern-day audiences. As clear reverence to that legendary picture, it opens in black-and-
white and framed in Academy ratio with the traveling magician Oscar
Diggs (James Franco) at the Baum Family Circus in 1905 Kansas. It's no
secret that Oscar will eventually become the Wizard; all that matters
is how he gets there, and what follows is a beautiful journey imagined
by screenwriters Mitchell Kapner and David Lindsay-Abaire of how an
ordinary man can become a great man with a good heart and a little bit
of faith.As such tales do, this one starts with who Oscar isn't – and that is,
an honest and reliable person. No doubt as a magician, Oscar will
always have a trick up his sleeve; but Oscar hasn't simply been
hoodwinking his audience. Instead, the smooth talker has also been
fooling any beautiful lady whom he meets; even as one such lady
(Michelle Williams) hopes to persuade him in his trailer to marry her,
the relative of another broken-hearted woman gives furious chase,
forcing him to climb into his hot-air balloon for escape.That is the first of many narrative sleight-of-hands in which fans will
immediately recall Victor Fleming's original. Here, a giant tornado
whisks him right into its eye, where he watches with wide-eyed horror
as every manner of debris flies dangerously around him. Once again
taking a cue from the original, this sequence is filmed for maximum
thrills – especially so with an added dimension – with an exhilarating
ride down a gushing waterfall added in for good measure. As Dorothy was in 'The Wizard of Oz', Oscar is greeted by a kind and
beautiful witch, Theodora (Mila Kunis), who is immediately spellbound
by the possibility that he could very well be the great and wonderful
wizard that an ancient prophecy had foretold. Those familiar with the
tale will recall that Theodora is but one of the witches of Oz; besides
her, there is her sister Evanora (Rachel Weisz) as well as the supposed
evil one called Glinda (Williams again) whom Evanora accuses of
murdering her father. The fates of these pivotal witches of Oz is intertwined closely with
Oscar's transformation from an opportunistic and self-centred trickster
to a revered hero of the people of Oz, and like Dorothy, Oscar is
joined on his adventure by two unlikely companions – a flying monkey
(Zach Braff) and an all-porcelain China Girl (Joey King). Along the
way, fans of both Baum's novels as well as the original will recognise
the other cleverly placed narrative sleights – including flying
baboons, singing and dancing Munchkins, poisonous-scented poppy fields,
and floating magic bubbles. Yet at no point do these plentiful references ever feel slavish;
rather, building on a solid foundation from Kapner and Abaire, Raimi
creates a visually resplendent world wowing in its lovingly rendered
details that feels fresh and original. The effect is, we dare say, just
as magical as that audiences in the past were transported on when
Fleming's Technicolour visual effects fantasy was first unveiled, and
perhaps even more so with the wonder of today's CGI advances put to
work.There is of course much more than just visual bombast on display; in
fact, Raimi uses these in service of a story that is full of heart and
nerve. Cast as an unprepared man whom destiny calls to greatness, the
Wizard is a surprisingly poignant character study of a flawed hero who
eventually finds it within himself to rise above himself. That change
of heart is portrayed in a befittingly heart-stopping climax engineered
on illusion and ingenuity, a grand magic show set right in the heart of
Emerald City that again brings to mind the revelation at the end of
'The Wizard of Oz' of the Wizard's identity. If there is one blemish to an otherwise outstanding accomplishment, it
is James Franco's casting as the Wizard. While he does bring a slippery
charm to the Wizard, he lacks the dramatic stature necessary to make
the character a more compelling one. Among the three witches, it is
Williams and Weisz who steal the show, the former's radiant goodness a
perfect complement against the latter's icy malevolence. And though we
do not see him after the film's extended prologue, Braff's voice-over
for the Wizard's winged companion brings much spirited humour to the
proceedings.So like 'The Wizard of Oz', this prequel is good old-fashioned family
entertainment. And just because this comes late in Hollywood's recent
obsession with fairy tales should not at all deter you from making a
beeline for it – because this is hands down the best of them (even
better than Tim Burton's 'Alice in Wonderland' in fact). True to its
title, it is great and wonderful, an ageless and timeless fantasy
deserved to be enjoyed in history with its forbearer.
