2
I want my money back.

You know, I really wanted to give The Mortal Instruments: City of 

Bones﻿ a fair shake. I mean, it LOOKED like another Twilight clone...it 

SOUNDED like another Twilight clone...it even FELT like a Twilight 

clone. (Don't ask me how I know how it felt.) But, I was determined not 

to judge a book by it's movie (ha!), and went to see City of Bones last 

night.



It's a Twilight clone. And a terrible one, at that.



Listen, it's clear that this type of movie has an audience, and I am by 

no means a typical member of that audience. On top of that, I am not 

familiar at all with the books. But none of that should matter - a 

movie should have enough merit to be watchable by anyone, even outside 

of the usual demographic. And this was nearly UNWATCHABLE.



Let's try to do pros and cons. This should be fun...



Pros: 



- Lily Collins, the main character and poor man's Kristen Stewart, was 

also in Priest﻿...one of the lowest-scored movies in BDBOS history. 

So...she's consistent. 



- You know those people who ALWAYS say, "The book was waaay better than 

the movie"? Again, never read them myself, but I can't imagine the 

books being ANY WORSE THAN THIS, so at least that will be an easy 

argument to win. 



- Lena Headey, aka 300﻿'s Queen of the Spartans, still gets to kick a 

little bit of ass. 



Cons: 



- I've read that a considerable amount of the book was cut from the 

movie, simply because it was impossible to fit everything into a 2-hour 

film. I feel like whatever was cut from the book would have made a 

better 2 hours of movie. So many plot holes, so many needlessly 

unanswered questions, so many things that DON'T MAKE A GODDAMN BIT OF 

SENSE. 



- Twilight did this already. If you're a Twilight person, you've seen 

this movie already. Awkward, ordinary teenaged girl, thrust into a 

secret world where supernatural beings battle each other, and gaining 

multiple One-Direction-looking love interests along the way. If you 

told me that this movie was really called "Twilight: The Other New 

Moon's Eclipse At Dawn", I'd believe you without argument.



- In God's name, WHY IS THERE AN IMAX VERSION OF THIS??? STOP IT, 

Hollywood. It's hard enough to justify watching 2 dimensions of this 

crap. 



- This movie might actually be cheezier than Twilight. Terrible one- 

liners, public shows of affection at awkward times, and a plot twist 

that will make you feel REALLY UNCOMFORTABLE about things you saw 

previously in the film.



- When the audience (which was practically empty in my theater, by the 

way) starts laughing at parts of the movie that aren't supposed to be 

funny...you have a problem. 



- It's over 2 hours long...and you'll feel EVERY LAST MINUTE of it.



City Of Bones scores a 1 out of 5 on the BDBOS, and should not be 

watched by human eyes. Vampires and werewolves should probably stay 

away, too.




