10
Finally, a video game to movie adaptation worth watching.

I registered here just to tell the world that there is still hope in
movie adaptations. PLOT: It's so Silent Hill 3.. quite good. and addition of the twists
like heather's boyfriend from the order was not bad. I was expecting
Heather carrying an Uzi but it was still OK because Harry didn't die.
(Best Ending?)GAME and Movie Reference: Even at the very start of scene where Heather
was going to SH and heard on the dialogue that the Pyramid Head was
Alessa's Guardian and Executioner, i got the feeling PH will be
protecting Heather since she is Alessa's daughter/half.. and was right
when she was rescued from the gripping hands of the mad prisoners.. and
the last scene where PH was battling the other "boss" monster..
whoaaa.. blows me away... my dream as a SH lover - to be able to make
PH an ally was finally fulfilled.Flashbacks from the game and the previous movie was given a fair
chance. It strengthened the plot a lot. It bridges some gaps of the
game. and it also connects the game to the movie in some way. oh, and
Rose was not just an extra. she speaks now.Travis was lookin good back there giving hitchhikers some ride in the
ending sequence. Note, Travis said "haven't been here in a long time",
does this mean that he actually take another route near silent hill
after all what happened saving a little girl? or maybe this was the
first time Travis got out of silent hill? hmmmn.. but considering the
fact that he gave Alex a ride to Shepherd's Glen makes him a frequent
visitor in that area.. (almost)Some scenes i felt like from one of the games. No downpour and book of
memories yet, still waiting for the PC version :( 1. Heather walking on
the street to the school bus -- like the street when you look at the
window on SH4. 2. The motel they rented looks like Norman's Motel 3. I
love Robbie the Rabbit.. The beginning scene where Robbie looked at
Heather.. feels like when he was pointing at the peeping tom Henry. ACTING: not the average award-winning feats but the kind we silent hill
lovers love. people criticized actors/acting when they aren't looking
forward to how the "plot" was executed. people who haven't played the
game. just look back at the crappy dialogue sequences of SH1.. gamers
don't bother.. (i personally say it added to the mood of the game) duh.FRUSTRATIONS: 1. No "Happy birthday" song.. arrrrrrrrrrrrgg!!! 2. No
automatic weapons. lolAWARD: Heather gave the best speech in class. MESSAGE TO THE HATERS: Play the game first, will you?
