7
Great Visuals, Weak Script overall

Visually, Gravity is unlike what we have seen on a cinema screen before
and arguably it has one of the best uses of 3D in a movie. The setting
is spectacular and the premise is inventive.On every other front,the movie falters badly. Once you get over the
initial wonderment surrounding the beautiful visuals, the chinks start
showing up. Overall the script is very weak. Apparently the Russians
bomb their own satellite by mistake and the debris is flying around at
bullet speed, smashing everything in its way. Now upon hearing an
emergency evacuation request, Kowalski (who has been wasting his
precious thrusters all this while, floating around, spouting inane
dialogs) orders Ryan (Bullock) to disengage from whatever she is
repairing. Apparently Ryan has six months of training (only) and fails
to be responsive and then the trouble starts.We come to know that Ryan has some head issues surrounding the death of
her daughter as the writer felt a dire need to give Ryan some sort of
existential problem in her head to make her character feel more human.
Apart from this minor bit, nothing is presented in terms of character
development for any other protagonists. Who is Kowalski? Who are the
people who died in their space pods? No idea.Then the whole manufactured sense of suspense. Every time Ryan gets
anywhere near the Air Lock (she does it three times), the debris
presents itself like on cue every single time. Then a fire in a space
station, then running out of Oxygen, then something then something.
It's fine that they used some standard tricks but it all seems so
manufactured and mechanical by the numbers suspense.Also at times I couldn't shrug off the feeling that what they are
showing on screen is not actually factual. Do the controls on various
international space stations have their national languages on them?
Really? Maybe they do but seems hard to believe when 20$ phones are
built with custom User interfaces with changeable languages, why have
your billion dollar space stations with Russian or Chinese characters
on your buttons totally beats me. Oh manufactured suspense owing to the
whole can't-understand-this-thing machinery.The the dialogs when they come are nothing to write home about. Ryan
has a hallucinatory moment when she talks to herself following some
Mandarin Chatter on the radio which is cringe worthy. I wont even
mention the in-your-face allegory about rebirth which is there for to
make the movie seem deeper than it is.So what works for the movie? It's a cross between an IMAX documentary
with some suspense elements thrown it which makes it look path
breaking.But it's not. Not a bad watch but nothing to rave about either.
