9
A visual beauty with equally beautiful performances.

Playing with tropes and flirting with genres Spring dances around the
edges of it's own definition. Blending elements of mystery, thriller,
horror, coming-of-age, and romance Justin Benson and Aaron Moorhead
weave a fantastical tale of love and the mysteries in life. Giving the
viewer just enough to hook us in they slowly reveal a beautiful and
oddly charming relationship while keeping a brooding and sinister
undertone throughout. Gorgeously shot Spring pops with vibrance
showcasing it's alluring location in the sun. When the light dims in
the night Spring comes alive. In these darkened morbid hours the
central relationship of the story comes through.Lou Taylor Pucci and Nadia Hilker own the screen with ease. If you were
to tell me that they were a real life couple I would believe it. Their
chemistry is electric and they play as if they have known each other
their whole lives. Spring lives and dies by their relationship and they
do not disappoint. Pucci plays Evan with a reserved edge. A man who is
suffering, but has no one to confide in. His internal pain is easily
felt and aptly conveyed through Pucci's eyes. He embodies the role of a
wounded man seeking comfort. Hilker's mysterious and enticing Louise,
seemingly, a dream woman. Striking beauty met with excellent wit and
high intelligence made all the more enchanting by the mystery that
surrounds her. Hilker makes it very easy for the view to quickly fall
for Louise just as Pucci's Evan does. Just as much as he wants to
experience more of her, we do as well. Louise is likewise intrigued by
Evan and his apparent impulsiveness to up and leave his own country on
a moments notice. Just as she wants to find out what it is he is
seeking, we do as well.The special effects fit the tone of Spring well. Creative and original
while still being a bit of a throwback to classic horror. By being used
only sporadically their effectiveness is even stronger. Spring's is
edited brilliantly. While flowing along at a rather slow pace Spring
never feels as though it wanders or strays. Rather it takes a second to
watch the beauty of the story as it unfolds. Benson and Moorhead
crafted quite the film in Spring. A mesmerizing and haunting portrait.9/10
