6
As a horror film, Annabelle is technically effective but lacks a good story and the finesse of a seasoned film maker.

As a prequel and spin-off of The Conjuring – 2013's highly effective
horror film – Annabelle does what it promises, even if it does so one
jump and one jolt at a time. But that's all you get, jumpy scenes done
to perfection, with little or no atmosphere and a story that
disintegrates before it reaches a satisfying conclusion.One of the most important aspects of The Conjuring and older sibling
Insidious (both films directed by James Wan), is the cinematography and
how it wreaks havoc with the viewer's peripheral vision. By this I am
referring to events occurring off-center, or in some corner of the
screen that is oblivious to on-screen characters but very obvious to
the viewer. Consider a scene where a mother watches over her new born
baby. The scene is shot in the living room where the right half of the
frame is composed of the mother and her baby and the left half is a
hallway that leads to other rooms in the house. Without shifting focus
from the mother and child, we see something or someone lurking in the
hallway behind; something that shouldn't be there in the first place.
While this tactic is nothing new to horror-thrillers, it works for the
whole purpose of inducing dread, thick and slow, before the actual jolt
hits a few seconds later. The scariest scenes in Annabelle are made up
of these moments, and at times we are left guessing what lurks in the
corners. And is probably why cinematographer John R Leonetti of those
preceding films is tasked with directorial duties in this film, while
Wan himself is bumped up to producer. Leonetti plays it safe by
treading down Wan's beaten path but without any surprises of his own.Playing the aforementioned mother is Annabelle Wallis (freaky
coincidence?) as Mia Gordon. Mia has a doll collection, one of which is
the titular vintage doll gifted by her medical student husband John
(Ward Horton). After surviving a horrific attack from a satanic cult,
the Gordons have new guests that won't leave. At first Mia starts
seeing things and becomes increasingly paralysed by fear while John
begins to doubt her sanity. It's a stock approach to crying wolf in
horror movies. It takes a while to dawn on them that something has
latched on to Annabelle, making the doll a conduit with increasing
intent on harming them and their new born baby. Consultations with a
librarian and a priest reveal far greater implications, thus leaving
these young parents to ward off hell by going right through it.On one hand, the look and feel in this film is a copy-paste version of
Insidious, but concentrated with sporadic moments of numbing fright.
We've seen it before in classic horror films – young parents who must
literally go through hell to save their child's soul. It's the same
concept here but effective enough for a low budget horror film. Like a
stern disciple, Leonetti is on par with Wan's technical approach.
Cinematography, hair raising sound design (including deliberate moments
without sound), and some decent tension will garner a few screams from
the audience, but that's about it. On the downside, there isn't much of
a story for a script based on real events and don't even expect
anything along the lines of an animated 'Çhucky' doll. It's not about
what the doll can do but about what's in the doll -If only they had
built on that frame of thought. After some well-timed jump scares in
the first half, all we are left with is a murky conclusion owing to
underwritten supporting cast members whose inclusion leaves the ending
stale and cheap.
