4
Sci-Fi And Kissing

The Host has an intriguing conceit. It is about a post-apocalypse where
aliens take control on every human body then the remaining unpossessed
humans fear them despite that these aliens only want peace. The story
might have an idea that the humans could be the real enemy here or it's
just both of them. The Sci-Fi bits are pretty interesting but it
doesn't end there. It's based on a young adult novel so definitely
there will be teenage hormones scattered around the context. It has
romance that is suppose to save their world and change their lives, but
once again just like any other young adult film, the romance is nothing
more than a bunch of good looking people falling in love and doing
romantic cliché stuff. Love may not be a problem to these stories but
this romance is terribly empty. They're just making out and saying
ridiculously cheesy lines. It would have been a fascinating idea but it
just can't get away from its typical teen angst.It is kind of similar to the recent young adult novel based film, Warm
Bodies, except the antagonists in The Host are virtuous beings instead
of ravenous monsters. It seems that both stories have the same
morality. Humans are not the most peaceful beings either and maybe the
order and mentality of both sides are the reason why they couldn't get
along. When it goes to the romance, it says that Melanie and Wanda's
love between the boys might revolt their world's condition. But it
strays from its plot giving us a lousily told story and romance. Mostly
the romance. It is noticeable that most of their "love" only rely on
their lips. Which means they kiss a lot. We do not get to know much
about why they care for each other, other than being one of the last
normal human beings of their age. It is also filled with plot holes
because of course it wants to appeal teens for the endless love that
didn't even work. It is directed by Andrew Niccol who is somewhat a
Sci-Fi expert but it looks like he's afraid that too much Sci-Fi than
romance might disappoint these children. He could have been more
indulgent.The film has a solid cast but not all of them standout. Saoirse Ronan
plays two roles here and she fills enough heart on both characters.
Diane Kruger looks like she is enjoying playing the film's villain. The
roles of Max Irons and Jake Abel seems to be only designed for kissing,
slapping, and sometimes strangling, leaving William Hurt being the only
likable gentleman of the picture.The script explains some points of the concept which is fine in that
way in spite of the plot holes but it gets terrible on the romance.
There are dialogues that may get way out of hand, ends up being
laughable. Even more laughable is one scene when the protagonist tries
to wake up her subconscious by kissing her boyfriend. I don't know if I
should blame anyone about it. I mean what choice does she have? Still,
it's ridiculous. The film is at least stunning. It gets to explore
something magnificent around. The exteriors serves a lot of intrigue to
its world. It features shiny cars and choppers. Most of the action are
well shot even though the action itself isn't really that interesting
but everything in the film looks good.The Host is not interesting enough. It thematically talks about peace
and stuff. Well, you can make peace out of love but the film only shows
kissing and I think there is more in love than just making out.
Hormonally, this could be a perfect escapism for teens. An apocalyptic
world about relationships of these good looking couples with fast
awesome cars crashing on the road. But the story seems to offer more.
Again, they are unable to show it because the only fan service for
adaptations of teen books is to follow every single sequence from the
book because they love comparing. Too bad, they could have also shown
what's behind the words as well. The Host is another victim of a
generic young adult film adaptation that doesn't understand much of the
meaning of the story, and throw away the most bland of all romances.
