2
A serious contender for worst film of the year.

Oh man, where do I even begin?I've been waiting for Jeepers Creepers 3 since elementary school. When
the day was finally announced last month, I couldn't contain my
excitement...well, I could, simply because Jeepers Creepers had worn
off a bit. I had realized that the first film, though good in certain
aspects, was an overall flawed film, and that the second film was an
outright piece of garbage. I predicted that this film would be bad, but
oh man, I never could've guessed it would be as awful as it turned out
to be. JC3 makes JC2 look good. There's so much wrong with this movie
that I'm not even sure where to start. First, let's start off with the plot, or lack thereof. There are
several stories Jeepers Creepers 3 could've told, but it's like they
didn't know which one to choose, so they just made a film with no plot
at all. JC3 takes place in between 1 and 2, which is a baffling
decision since that story didn't need to be told and it ruins the
continuity of the JC timeline. The film revolves around, like, 9
characters and I don't even know which character would count as the
"main" character because nobody gets adequate enough screen time. We
have Officer Tubbs from the end of the first movie, a character so
minor in the original that it really makes you wonder why Salva would
write him a lead role. Then we have the team of Creeper Hunters led by
Stan Shaw. We also have some dementia-stricken old lady, her teenage
daughter, the country hunk that's crushing on her, a group of punk
teenage bikers, and the Creeper himself. They all have notable screen
time but most of them are totally pointless and some don't even have
resolutions of concussions to their characters. Notice how out of all
of these characters, I never mentioned Trisha? Despite Gina Phillips's
on-poster credit, she is not in the movie at all and instead has a 15
second cameo at the very, very tail end of the movie. The film
constantly flip-flops back and forth between all of these characters at
the most inconvenient times, and by the time the story has come back
around to a set of characters, we've already forgotten what's going on
with them because the story has packed so much into a 5 minute span,
yet so little at the same time.The errors in the plot continue as, well, there is no plot. Pacing is
something that seems totally oblivious to Salva and company, as the
film had no distinguishable act structure of any kind. The film still
felt like it was in it's 1st act at the hour mark, and I'm honestly not
even sure what the climax was supposed to be, if the film even had a
climax to begin with! We're just watching the film and suddenly,
seemingly out of nowhere, the screen turns black and the credits begin
to roll. Tonal shifts are aggressive in this film, as one minute it's
an episode of Degrassi, then it's John Carpenter's Vampires, then it's
Evil Dead 2, and then it's American Horror Story. None of it matches
and it feels like 3 or 4 random scripts were cobbled together without
any editing. There are some moments the feel like Salva was trying to
make a borderline comedy, but it's unclear mostly due to our next
point...Next is the production. Salva is a great cinematic director and the
first two movies are filled with gorgeous shots and atmosphere so thick
you could cut it with a blade. I suppose Salva got lazy with JC3
because this movie feels like it was made for TV. The film is laden
with abysmal CGI, some of the worst I've ever seen in a theatrical
release. The CGI in the original film looked better, and that came out
in 2001. The editing and lighting are often so awful that you can't
even tell what's happening; there is one instance where a biker is
snatched, or something, by the Creeper, but it's so quick and shot so
poorly you can't even tell what happens. An audience member behind me
said "what just happened?" and I was glad I wasn't the only one. The
production actually reaches "so bad it's hilarious" status on several
occasions, including a slow-mo scene with the Creeper that was so
over-the-top that it had the theater erupting in laughter. Trust me, it
wasn't the only serious scene where the audience laughed hard at
something meant to be serious.Even The Creeper himself is ruined. One of the most intimidating horror
villains of the modern horror age has been reduced to a slightly
irritated staggering drunk. Whoever decided to give him that bright red
T shirt should be fired, as it looks severely out of place on him. Oh,
and we STILL don't know his origins. By this point, being teased on his
history comes off as a cheap gimmick, like even Salva has no idea what
to do about his backstory.So there you have it. JC3 is possibly 2017's worst film so far. Too
many main characters, an unfocused story with no conclusion, too much
plot yet somehow not enough plot, absent pacing, a nonthreatening and
goofy looking villain, Syfy channel levels of production, some of the
worst CGI ever, and a massive kick in the groin towards the JC
fan-base. I used to wonder why this film was denied a worldwide
theatrical release, thinking Salva's history may be the culprit. I've
now realized that the more likely reason is that the producers saw how
awful this film was and couldn't bear to release this on the big
screen. It's most definitely a home release, and that's where it
should've gone. Judging by how hard my theater laughed at every scene,
I doubt I'm the only one who holds these opinions.
