1
Entertaining but weak plot

As a huge fan of fantasy books and films, I had very high hopes for
this one... Especially when people said "oh, you liked Lord of the
Rings? You'll love this!" The verdict? I now know who *not* to listen
to next time. If your tastes are similar to mine, you tend to read the
books before watching the movies and you don't really follow particular
actors. So, really, I had high expectations for this film - and that
might've been the problem... Charlize Theron played the evil queen well
but I would've loved it if the film had delved further into the queen's
history as several ideas were started but never really explained (I
have a decent imagination but I don't really think, as a viewer, I
should be entirely responsible for thinking up ways to connect the
dots). For instance, why is the Queen able to feel everything her
brother feels? Why did her mother decide to give her the spell rather
than both her and her brother or just her brother? And why, once we get
into the meat (or the attempt at the meat) of the story, did the Queen
spare Snow White's life when she didn't yet know Snow White was "the
fairest"? And if she did know, all the more reason! Why spare her?? The
Huntsman was, I would argue, the best developed character - at least in
comparison to the others. At the very least, you knew enough to explain
his drinking problem and his bitterness... That said, his wasn't an
overly complex character to portray. For exactly that reason, it seemed
more than a little ridiculous that the Huntsman *alone* carried the
romantic scenes between he and Snow White. For instance, at one point,
as he leads Snow White through the forest, he takes a knife to her
skirts (apparently he thought they were getting in the way). Snow White
stares blankly at the Huntsman and it is only once he says "don't
flatter yourself" that you realize the emotion Snow White was
supposedly showing was chaste shock. Granted that, perhaps if I was
more familiar with Kristen Stewart's acting, I might have recognized
what she was portraying, but, on the other hand, I'm more of the mind
that I shouldn't need to know your acting style in order to recognize
so basic an emotion. This kind of jarring (not in a good way) and
unbalanced acting was repeated at the end of the film when Snow White
is crowned and the Huntsman enters the room. Looking at Snow White, one
sees only a blank yet tearful smile, but when The camera turns to the
Huntsman it dawns on you that there was supposed to be some sort of
moment passing between them. All in all, the chemistry existed only on
the side of the Huntsman, leaving much to be desired from Kristen
Stewart's portrayal. And that, of course, brings us to Snow White. The
character seems to borrow much from Joan of Arc to the point that one
might wonder if she wondered into the wrong film. There is an attempt
to develop the character but Ms Stewart seems to be little able to
carry the development of what might have been a very strong female
character. The only hint of real strength comes with Snow White's
battle speech which would've been fantastic except for the utter lack
of build up to this newfound strength of character. So, in spite of the
best intentions, this moment came across as contrived. If only Kristen
Stewart had managed to keep up that pace of energy throughout the rest
of the film, it might have been more believable. So, unfortunately,
though I had high hopes, I actually found myself rolling my eyes
frequently and feeling a bit like I was watching someone show off all
his "super awesome" visual effects - which *was* pretty cool... Just
not enough to carry a story. In conclusion, if you count yourself as
one who likes a good plot, great character development, and strong
female leads... Either lower your expectations or skip this one
entirely.
