1
WTF Happened?  Watch and judge for yourself - But don't waste too much on it

I was doing a small Resident Evil movie marathon in preparation for
seeing this movie, and I was really looking forward to see how they
could save the ending of the fourth one - But I was quite hopeful that
I would at least get a good action story with an acceptable plot. That
have been true for all the others in the series so why not this one.Well was I in for a rude awakening. Honestly if you enjoyed all the
former movies and you consider them "part of their own story" meaning
that your pretty much ignoring the video games when watching the movies
then you'll find yourself even more amazed by how terrible this movie
is.I will avoid going into details about plot as others have done that and
perfectly expressed the errors in it (I am of course referring to those
more negative reviews you'll find as most of the very positive ones
doesn't really put a lot of effort into mentioning it.. maybe because
even they would have trouble claiming it to be a good movie then ;) ).But I can easily sum-up the main problems with this movie: The plot and
the acting. That is not a good thing for a movie and trust me it shows.
The plot has some vague references to the former movie, but that's
quickly forgotten and all your in for is a mess of action scenes and
bad (and I mean bad) CGI effects. Somehow the actors manage to look not
in the least interested in the gun battles they take part in, and at
the same time do a damn good job to remove any sense of immersion you
might have scrapped together, for instance by appearing utterly
unfamiliar with handling their weapons.. There is some odd alien
references.. or more likely "inspired" events that make no sense in the
overall story and world.Finally the whole absurd-storm will end with you sitting back confused
as to what you just watched, shaking your head in shocked astonishment,
trying to comprehend just how bad it was. Then the anger will arise due
to the disappointment of what this could have been and here I am
writing a review to warn others.I personally will not count this as part of the series, I'll count it
as the series failed little-brother rip-off that should never ever have
been made.I cannot in any situation recommend this movie.. by far the most
disappointing, meaningless and confounded mess I ever saw.
