4
The film has some big laugh lines and a lot of cleverness, but it is implausible to a fault.

Logan Lucky: Sometimes You're too Clever Logan Lucky (LL) is too clever
for it's own good. The film has some big laugh lines and a lot of
cleverness, but it is implausible to a fault. Sure, it's a work of
fiction, but it has to pass the the credulity test. LL fails several
times. The film involves a heist, a divorce, a prison break out and
break in, car swapping, money swapping, wife swapping. Well, not the
last one. Jimmy Logan (Channing Tatum) is a laid off worker looking for a score.
Jimmy Logan's ex-wife played by Katie Holmes is poorly written and
poorly acted. Holmes, in fact, is the worst part of the film. The characters in the film are stereotypes. Jimmy's brother, Clyde
Logan played by Adam Driver, has a missing arm from fighting in Iraq.
So the film makes a series of arm jokes that are funny at first and
eventually play like bad schtick. Give it a rest. We get it!Daniel Craig is hilarious as Joe Bang, a munitions expert. However, his
idiot brothers were so over the top as "stupid mountain people" that it
balances out the hilarity of Craig's performance. Seth MacFarlane made
a funny appearance, and I didn't even know it was him. That's a good
thing, frankly. Talk about tired schtick. While character stereotypes can be funny, they can also be cliché. The
cops in this movie were too stupid to believe and not funny. If you are
going to make a believable heist movie, making the police impossibly
stupid isn't the way to go. At least the FBI had some balls, so to
speak. One of the funniest bits in the film involves prisoners rioters who
can't have their demands met because certain books have not yet been
published. It's a great homage, and that's all I am going to say about
it. I am sure a clip of that seen will appear online in a a few months.The film is both irritatingly illogical and surprisingly clever.
Another run through on the script would have helped, but then again, it
wasn't trying to be Game of Thrones or something. If it was, someone
would have had to die. Or did they?Rating: Rent it, if only for Craig's performance. See "Hell or High
Water" or "Heist" for a better written and more entertaining heist
experience. . Peace, Tex Shelters
