1
I'm glad this bombed

I went to friend's to watch and from the trailers it seemed like a nice 

little gangster movie. It starts building up as a crime/revenge story 

and then out of nowhere it's like the movie ignores what it was 

originally going for.



I'm gonna explain this... So Benn Affleck's character is head over 

heels for this marilyn monroe look alike and then she betrays him. So 

this mob boss beats him up and lets him go. Ben Affleck swears revenge 

and then he starts by going to the Florida and then tries to find the 

guy who betrays.



At that point, the movie just totally forgets all of that. So Ben 

Affleck befriends a bunch of Cubans and agrees to start smuggling rum. 

So then out of nowhere the KKK shows up (I'm not making this up) and 

start harassing him. So he tries to make deals with them and then they 

back down.



So then he like finds the sheriffs daughter is strung out on heroin and 

then black mails him into letting him meet one of the KKK heads (they 

even gave the dude a hair lip so we know he's in the KKK and LITERALLY 

Hitler)so he can kill them. We're already like an hour into this movie 

and it's already forgotten about the whole revenge story. So they try 

to tie it in by saying the main villain paid the KKK to shoot up the 

Ben Affleck's clubs.



So the KKK guys get shot and then they explain over a quick montage 

that they ended up running the KKK out of Tampa. So then in the next 

part of the movie Ben Affleck tries to open a Casino but the Sheriff's 

daughter is back in town going on tour speaking against gambling, sex, 

drugs, and all kinds of sins (this movie is all over the place). So 

that's like 20 minutes of the movie wasted. The plot around her is 

dumb, she kills herself after contributing nothing to the plot, and 

then Ben Affleck goes and gets his revenge.



This movie looked like it'd be a cool gangster movie but it is not a 

gangster movie. There is nothing more absurd than a movie placed in the 

20s trying to tackle "social issues" facing society today. It was 

trying to send a "message" that didn't really go anywhere and it's a 

shame they tried to sell this as a crime drama. Terrible movie. 

Leonardo Retardo and Ben Assfleck should retire.
