10
Movie Magic

Remember when Scream came out? People loved it - and not because it was
the most horrifying and controversial scary flick ever released. It was
a huge success because it gave fans of the horror genre something new.
It made them laugh because it lovingly poked fun at a genre the fans
knew by heart. Cabin in the woods takes a slightly different approach.
Where Scream chose to laugh about dumb things people do in horror
movies, Cabin decides instead to respectfully explain...well,
everything - and making you laugh/scream while it does. I absolutely loved this film. If you've looked at a few reviews, you'll
see this film has three acts. I like to compare them to the three acts
of a magic trick - something I learned from The Prestige:1) The Pledge - Something ordinary is introduced to the audience. Five
average college students go to a remote cabin in the woods where
they'll spend the weekend partying it up! This is where we say to
ourselves that because this is a horror movie, everyone will die, and
thus we already know the ending. Am I right?2) The Turn - There's something else happening here. It's not what we
thought. This is the part where we scratch our head and say "Wait a
sec...what's going on?" This story isn't keeping to the rails we set it
on. It's taking a weird turn and only getting weirder. This is also the
part where people give up and decide they hate it because it's
different. It's also the part where your standard horror flick
ends...but wait!3) The Prestige - The resolution. The end. The explanation to
everything that's been going on, and also possibly the greatest 20
minutes ever shown in horror movie history. This is the part where the
audience is silent and speechless as every die-hard horror fan's dream
is realized on screen. All your dedication, love, and sacrifice for
this genre is justified. The credits roll, you walk out of the theater
saying to yourself, "Did that just happen?" - and then you buy another
ticket and watch it again.I'm trying not to reveal anything too big, and I think everyone else
will tell you the same; you want to know as little as possible about it
before you watch. The movie is funny, scary, and unbelievably
entertaining. If you don't like it, you're one of the people that took
a turn in act two and stopped following along. I feel so sorry for
those guys. Have a good time at the theater!
