8
Monsters Going Wild

Hotel Transylvania has a simple concept: classic campy monsters staying
in a hotel where humans are not allowed because they think we're evil.
It doesn't sound too fresh but it looks fun. Behind this concept is a
father-daughter-relationship that seems to follow the footsteps of
other great recent animated films. The result is, it's not getting
there yet but it's still as delightful as it's suppose to be. It's one
of those films that it's so crazy, you'll instantly like it. Most of
the gags are clever and ridiculous. Overall, it's an endless fun
entertainment.Though, the film sometimes feels like a mediocre animated kids film.
Generic family film elements are there but they are used in a different
way. There is often slapstick and toilet humor but the gags are best
when it's outrageously absurd. Every set pieces are swift, quirky, and
exciting. The voices of the characters sound silly at glance but the
actors made them pretty likable.When the craziness slows down, there's a sweet bit of Dracula's
relationship between Mavis and Jonathan, and some brooding. The drama
is a little effective. It's not as strong as most recent animated
films. It's more focused at being fun and hilarious. It's great when it
stays to the roots of a cartoon like showing peculiar looking
characters acting like lunatics. The best laughs are when the monsters
are expressing their misanthropy in a ludicrously paranoid way, and
when they're just making fun of each other. Mainstream pop culture song
numbers kind of tone things down, but the song number at the end didn't
affect the breathtaking and emotional climax.Hotel Transylvania is good enough for the whole family even though it's
raucous. Fans of the animation genre would enjoy this a lot more. Since
it's directed by a cartoon expert, it contains a lot of absurd and
exciting scenes that is similar to his shows. Although, some might
expect something more since many animated films these days are deeper
and powerful, leaving the old habits behind. Hotel Transylvania still
has the heart but it's just not as compelling as the others. If you're
in for the joys then this will give you a good time. My rating may be
too high, but this my thing. I always enjoy this kind of animation.
