8
Willing to Settle Down

The subject of sex addiction is a new one, at least in indie
filmmaking, and it was terribly explored in the 2012 film "Thanks for
Sharing." With a much funnier cast assembled, and a solid screenplay to
boot, the romantic coupling of Jason Suidekis and Alison Brie is one of
the best in recent years. Much of the film's success is owed to writer
and director Leslye Headland, who also helmed the 2012 comedy
"Bachelorette." The film is produced by Will Ferrell and Adam McKay,
who have been taking more chances on obscure indie comedies. Though
this isn't the best rom-com of last year it has flawless chemistry
between its leads and includes bawdy humor that impresses and
intrigues.The film starts in much the same way as "When Harry Met Sally," with
Lainey (Brie) meeting Jake (Sudeikis) in a dorm hallway, where Lainey
is pounding on someone's door. It turns out that she is trying to find
her TA (Scott) to lose her virginity to. Jake and Lainey end up having
one night stand, and don't see each other until they meet at a Love
Addicts group in New York. Not wanting to risk any new relationships on
having a sexual fling, they become platonic friends who give each other
advice on their dating lives. Lainey apparently did meet up with that
TA, and he is now a married man with a baby on the way. Jake is newly
obsessed with his current boss, played by Amanda Peet. The problems of
the characters aren't anything new, but their chemistry and constant
support of one another make the film both introspective and endearingly
funny.Like in "Thanks for Sharing," sex addiction doesn't actually get
explored as well as it could. In that film we follow three different
couples all grappling with sex addiction, and each story isn't given
enough time to be explored, which makes the film meandering and
needless. This film kind of peters out on its main theme (though it's
about love addiction not sex addiction) immediately, in order to
explore the characters and really focus on their relationship rather
than making this a social issue film. Love addiction doesn't seem like
it makes sense as the film's major theme, because Jake doesn't seem to
love anyone but himself, and Lainey cheats on her only love interest.The film stresses that these two people have not had any healthy
relationships since their one night stand thirteen years prior. While
it's admirable to include love, or sex addiction, as your theme, it's
not needed here. These two people are complex and funny without the
need for adding contemporary themes and complicating the plot.
