4
There's something exhilarating about the Twilight Saga finally coming to a close.

Picking up almost immediately after the events of "Breaking Dawn Part
1," Bella Swan (Kristen Stewart) and Edward Cullen (Robert Pattinson)
must brave raising their newborn child Renesmee (Mackenzie Foy) in a
world where vampire children are forbidden. When Irina (Maggie Grace)
spies close friend and werewolf guardian Jacob Black (Taylor Lautner)
out for a snowy stroll with the rapidly growing Renesmee, she assumes
the young girl was turned into a vampire as opposed to being born –
which in vampire lore, represents an unignorable dilemma from permanent
immaturity, potentially destructive tantrums, and general
untrustworthiness. Betraying this inaccurate vision to the inflexible
Volturi leader Aro (Michael Sheen), she incites a war between the
Cullens and their sympathizers and Aro's army of skillful followers.There's something exhilarating about the Twilight Saga finally coming
to a close. The repetitious nature of witnessing Lautner dramatically
remove his shirt, seeing scantily clad forest people metamorphosing
into over-sized werewolves that appear entirely too cuddly despite
gritted canines, and looking at Stewart's blank face trying desperately
to emote, has equated to a tiresome journey. The numerous problems
plaguing the series haven't been solved, once again demonstrating the
excruciating preposterousness of vampire strength and speed (and now
more conspicuously the feeding on wild game), unconvincing computer
graphics (isn't this franchise much too lucrative to ignore
possibilities outside of Rodeo FX and Hydraulx?), and an overabundance
of comic relief.The pervasive humor in "Breaking Dawn" is perhaps the greatest scourge
of the production. The first half-hour is so blanketed by one-liner
riffs that it's difficult to understand the intent. These constant
little jokes don't progress the story and only serve to pollute the
tone, which gravely requires seriousness to market sense for the wildly
fanciful, fairy-tale-like characters. Imprinting, the love triangle, a
very PG-13 sex scene, Bella arm-wrestling to prove her fortitude – all
of these and more are purely comedic (while aspiring to be expectedly
essential) and further detract from the severity of quenching
bloodlust, rearing an enigmatic child, and engineering an army for an
epic closing battle. The casting of Michael Sheen is easily the most
garish selection, bestowing upon the goofy role expressions, dialogue,
and cackles that garner awkward laughs. Later, the elaboration of
special powers beyond merely being immortal bloodsuckers (the mastery
of electricity, elemental distortion, mind control, etc.) is presented
as pathetically derivative of X-Men mutants. The lengths the vampires
will go to conceal their vampirism has apparently made it necessary to
exploit flashier abilities, akin to superheroes. Jacob even comments of
Bella's "Jedi training." Admittedly, it's amusing to see the much-awaited culmination of the
Volturi's mercilessness and the Cullen's protective righteousness. The
highly anticipated, skull-ripping campaign isn't without unexpected and
momentous casualties. An unfortunate twist surrounds this momentary
enthusiasm and welcome realization of acerbity and violence, however,
revealing a method of misdirection tantamount to storytelling treason –
which will unavoidably displease the casual or uneducated viewer
(namely those not familiar with the book, should they exist in crowds
for this release). At least Bella's narration quickens the overly
simplistic plot, resulting in a finale for the theatrical phenomenon
thankfully clocking in at less than two hours.- The Massie Twins (GoneWithTheTwins.com)
