9
An unshowy Steven Spielberg does a master's job with Cold War tensions, honoring a real-life attorney's victory over fear.

A feel-good Cold War melodrama, Bridge of Spies is an absorbing
true-life espionage tale very smoothly handled by old pros who know
what they're doing. In its grown-up seriousness and basis in historical
conflict, Steven Spielberg's first feature since Lincoln three years
ago joins the list of the director's half-dozen previous "war" films,
but in its honoring of an American civilian who pulled off a smooth
prisoner exchange between the East and West during a very tense period,
the film generates an unmistakable nostalgia for a time when global
conflict seemed more clear-cut and manageable than it does now.
Spielberg's fourth collaboration with Tom Hanks, which world- premiered
at the New York Film Festival and opens commercially on October 16,
looks to generate stout box-office returns for Disney through the
autumn season. For people of Spielberg's generation, the early years of
the nuclear era and the stand-off between the United States and the
Soviet Union represents a significant part of the fabric of childhood.
With the passage of time, it's possible to tell stories of the time
without furnishing them with overt propagandistic overlays, and for
Westerners there is the added built-in appeal of the "we won" factor
and the perception that dealing with adversaries was so much simpler
then than it is now. As their focus in this impeccably rendered
recreation of a moment in history, most palpably represented by the
building of the Berlin Wall, Spielberg and screenwriters Matt Charman
and Ethan and Joel Coen have chosen a sort-of Atticus Finch of the
north, a principled, American Everyman insurance attorney unexpectedly
paged to represent a high-level Soviet spy caught in New York. There is
no question that Rudolf Abel (Mark Rylance) is guilty, but James B.
Donovan (Hanks), a proper and decent family man with a professional
dedication to his client and an abiding loyalty to the principles of
the U.S. Constitution, has a quick and intuitive read of any legal
situation and shrewdly stays at least one step ahead of the game in
almost any situation.
