3
A disaster

The Snowman is a disaster. It's not only a disaster, it's an
unfathomable disaster. This film had absolutely everything going for
it. I've not read the source material, that the film is based on, but
it's being hailed as one the best books in its genre here in Norway.
The director, Tomas Alfredson, has made some great films in the past
and the cast is great. Yet the film is a complete mess.The film actually looks unfinished. It looks like they had a version
ready to go, but then some of the countless number of producers stepped
in and told them to redo the whole film. Only that it wasn't enough
time for them to actually make the new version comprehensible. There
are scene transitions that are shockingly bad. Scenes that arrives and
ends out of nowhere. Scenes that are included into the film for some
reason that no one knows. Scenes that serves absolutely no pay-off, and
are sort of just there for being there's sake. If one then takes a look
at the trailer to the film, one can clearly see that huge parts of the
dialogue and that some of the scenes from the trailer have been cut out
of the film. This tells me that there are huge chunks of material left
in some editing room out there, that probably would have caused the
film to feel a lot more comprehensible.It wastes no time on character development. These type of films
requires that audience manages to get inside the lead characters head.
We need to be a part of the investigation. We need to feel the
frustration and hopelessness of the characters. There's quite simply no
emotion here. There's nothing to hold on to, and nothing to make you
invested. Michael Fassbender's character features a lot of traits that
ought to make him an interesting protagonist, but none of it is
explored. It's actually quite baffling to see how neglected it all is.
The Snowman got a wide range of characters, but none of them serve any
other purpose than to serve the plot. Some of them doesn't even feel
needed for that sake. Val Kilmer is one of the most useless characters
I've seen in quite some time. For some reason, he was even dubbed.The whole film is entirely built around the plot, and leading up to the
revelation of who the snowman killer is. Unfortunately, the film does a
poor job of building up the suspense. It's quite frankly boring in huge
parts and the revelation is predictable. Aside from the lack of
character development and invested emotion (which is very much needed
in order to care for a story), the film does a poor job in showcasing
the investigation. Too many of the characters are doing things just
because. Too much of the film is happening just because. There's very
rarely given any reason for why things are happening. The overall plot
is easy enough to follow, but in terms of logic it becomes a confusing
mess.The Snowman is a mess. It's hard to understand how they managed to mess
it up so badly, but they sure did. Aside from some neat visuals and a
decent (if slightly forgettable) score, there's not much to enjoy here.
