1
Lousy on many levels

After viewing Lone Survivor, I was disappointed on many levels. I can
handle a bad movie, we pay $10.75 and hope for the best. Lone Survivor,
however, is propaganda, and I was insulted by the movie's lack of
integrity and general stupidity:1) Bad guys brandishing weapons traditionally struggle with accuracy in
movies. Fine. But these four guys face an onslaught of hundreds of
soldiers (many with automatic weapons), fall off multiple steep cliffs,
survive direct hits with boulders and trees, yet spring to their feet
for another round with the bad guys. Even when struck by bullets, they
tough it out and continue to fight on. Look, I have nothing against our
Navy Seals and root for them while in battle, but even they must abide
by the laws of physics.2) The underlying message was that our guys are smart and brave, their
guys are wicked and stupid. If this were true, the war would have been
over ages ago. Incidentally, the makers of the movie were granted full
access by the U.S. military.3) Speaking of which. . .according to the LA Weekly, the producers of
Lone Survivor are convicted cocaine dealers and have ties to Russian
oil and an alleged contract murder. And while that isn't necessarily an
indictment of the movie (for example, I enjoy Polanski movies but
realize he's a convicted sex offender) it does give me pause for the
movie's motives.4) The symbolism of the cute little village boy was kind of like, "Oh
look, they're not ALL bad. A cute little kid, just like one of ours!"5) I'm dismayed and frightened to learn how well this movie is faring
at the box office. Putting aside its political overtones, this movie is
plain lousy: dreadful character development, false New Mexico
landscape, overlong and poorly executed battle scenes, and midway
through the movie, poof, it gives up on the narrative back at the base.6) I suspect this movie is for people with yellow "I Support the
Troops" bumper stickers. Let's watch our brave boys fight and kick ass,
from a safe distance of course. Or hackneyed sports announcers who love
to talk about "fighting them over there so we don't have to fight them
over here." Calling yourself a patriot, while voting for politicians
who would deny health care to a soldier suffering PTSD, a lost limb or
worse. If you think that's exaggeration, look it up.7) One star, but only because zero is not allowed. I am heartened so
many others also rated the movie poorly. After all, Lone Survivor isn't
a Disney fantasy, and we simply would like better screenplays and
realism in our movies. I recently viewed Twelve O'Clock High and was
extremely impressed by its portrayal of the brave American men who flew
daylight bombing missions against Nazi Germany in World War 2. Here we
are 65 years later. . .
