3
Okayish, but moving too fast with bad CGI

So, okay, this is a better movie then Suicide Squad (duh!) and it is an
enormous leap forward from the absolute horrific stupidity of BvS, but
is WonderWoman really a good movie? Well, nah, not really. It is
decently entertaining and it does have several redeeming traits, but
sadly not a very good movie. Let us start with the bad. The CGI is horribly bad. It is so obvious and so badly done I keep
wondering if this movie was made in the early 1990's. I saw this movie
the day after seeing Agents of Shield season finale, and AoS had
10-times better CGI. Did they not get money to do a WW movie? The story moves way, way too fast, throughout the movie. They jump from
this to this and there is no time to breath, catch up with characters
or develop any sense of location. It feels like this movie should have
been 2 hours longer and I can only assume it was cut down to fit the
American public that love fast pace action set pieces. Diana is a kid,
swhoosh, Diana is training, swoosh, Germans are evil and let this
Jewish woman go kill them for some reason. Then they jump on a boat and
faster than The Flash they are in London, and then swoosh they are in
the war, then dancing and then off fighting and whopidoda the movie is
over. I got the feeling I was fast forwarding 10-15min all the time.
Did they cut out 2 hours? Was the script this bad? The villains were pretty boring and badly flushed out. People keep
complaining about Marvel villains, but this was far worse and in a fast
pace movie like this you really do need to feel the strength and power
and immense danger of the villain(s), but in this movie you do not. Not
at all.I also need to mention that I hate that the "hero" is fighting the poor
Germans in WW1, of course the central powers and Germans were the good
guys in WW1 (as far as such things goes in a world war), but the
propaganda must go onThe good? Well, Gal Gadot is good as WW, most of the supporting
characters are good as well. Most of the action, if you can ignore the
bad CGI, is good. The general story, if ignoring all the plot holes, is
compelling and there are a lot of fun and great moments in this movie.
There is a good/great movie here somewhere, but it is cut away and
hidden under badness. If you can relax and just enjoy the ride and not let the bad elements
mention above take you too much out of the movie this is okayish. I
give the movie a 4 out of 10. It is entertaining after all, but not as
good as Man of Steel which is still (to me) the best of the DC movies
and also, strangely enough, the DC movie with least Christ-imagery Are all DC characters supposed to be God? Or Gods? Is that the point?
Boring. Edit: Just saw the movie again last night and having time to focus on
the movie and how good/bad it is, I detected a lot of other issues,
inconsistencies and weirdo plot holes I missed the first time around.
Consequently I will lower my score to a 3 out of 10.
