9
Definitely Highly Underrated

I don't know why this movie has such a low rating, 7 is worse than 9 ;)
Maybe a lot of people didn't understand it. If you like sci-fi or
mind-bending movies you definitely MUST watch this.Anyway, for people that didn't totally understand this movie: (spoiler
alert!!!)Basically it is all a huge paradox that never begin and never end. You
don't have to try understand when it begin because is a paradox.The characters are:little Jane, Jane as an adult, The first John, the second John (Ethan
Hawke) and the Fizzle Bomber...AND THEY ARE ALL THE SAME PERSON!!!! She
is the daughter of herself with himself etc..here's the time line (the Jane/John life ... not the movie)Little Jane was born and is kidnapped by the second John and is carried
in the past... Little Jane grows and becomes the adult Jane... The
adult Jane meets first John out of the university... Jane and John fall
in love... and conceive little Jane... Jane gives birth to little Jane
and undergoes... physical damage during birth and become the first
John... Fist John lives as a man and writes for a magazine... The first
John meets the second John at the bar... The two John travel together
in the past... The first John meets Jane out of the university... The
first John dump Jane and starts chasing the Fizzle bomber... The first
John suffers face burns in a meeting with the Fizzle Bomber... The
first John becomes the second John... The second John goes to the bar
to meet the first John... Together they go into the past... While the
first John meets Jane out of the university: the second John succeeds
only to help the first John just burned, and then he goes in the future
to kidnap little Jane and takes her in the past to start again the
circle... The second John fetches the first John who has to leave
Jane... The second John retires... The second John discovers that
Fizzle bomber is himself and kills him... The second John understands
that the only thing he wants is to meet again with himself and decides
to really start to be the Fizzle Bomber.... And again .... and again .... and again ... and again ....SUCH A GREAT MOVIE(sorry for my English)
