1
Preposterously Self Indulgent

To put it in as simple terms as possible, Blue Is The Warmest Colour is
a story about Adèle, a high school student who finds herself confused
and troubled with her sexual identity. After passing a blue-haired girl
on the street who catches her eye and an even more confusing,
spontaneous and upsetting encounter with a classmate she finds it all
to curious and enticing when a close, male friend takes her to a gay
bar, she follows some girls to another bar nearby where she sees the
blue- haired girl again. A short conversation sparks a relationship
that carries us through the rest of the film.Well, where to start?To start with, this film is exhaustingly long. 3 hours is too much for
so much useless, meandering exposition. It serves nothing other than to
keep us away from a plot that is so thin you could go make yourself a
cup of tea and come back 20 minutes later and nothing would've happened
to push the story along. I'm sure there is an excellent 90 minute film
in there somewhere if the editors had been more ruthless in their
cutting and the director wasn't so preposterously self indulgent.The sex scenes are unavoidable, exploitative and sickening within the
context of the films creation. The major sex scene that everyone talks
about took a gruelling 10 days to shoot and was only the actors 2nd
shot on-set together, they literally didn't know each other and were
suddenly put together to perform these scenes for an imposing,
frustrated director.Léa Seydoux and Adèle Exarchopoulos have both stated that the 3 hour
film doesn't really show how much they shot, that the director would do
hundreds of takes of even the most simple scenes, extend scenes and
shoot for extremely long periods of time and would become enraged if
they laughed even once out of one hundred takes.Knowing how the actors felt about it (thankfully they have been vocal
in interviews about how horrible and unpleasant the experience was) how
uncomfortable they were with unchoreographed sex scenes; sex scenes are
almost always choreographed, shots and various angles kept to minimal
length so that actors are more comfortable and that the experience is
as desexualised as possible. They have spoken about how they felt
powerless to say anything about it because "The director has all the
power. When you're an actor on a film in France and you sign the
contract, you have to give yourself, and in a way you're trapped."…"In
America, we'd all be in jail." – Léa SeydouxThis is perversion and abuse of power in the truest sense. The fact
that Kechiche wrote the adaptation, produced and directed the film,
apparently even financed some of it himself tells me all I need to know
about his intentions. Even Manohla Dargis of The New York Times has
written that it "feels far more about Mr. Kechiche's desires than
anything else".I feel awful for Léa Seydoux and Adèle Exarchopoulos for having to
endure this "horrible" 6 month shoot and for having to work with this
director, of whom they have said they would never work with again. They
deserved better than this because their performances are incredible
given the situation that they had to work in.And finally, I also feel bad for the characters Adèle and Emma, their
story deserved so much better than this.
