10
a beautiful, genre-defining, genuine feature that may change the face of high school films forever

It is really interesting to look at the history of high school movies
in cinema. The 80s and early 90s gave us Fast Times at Ridgemont High,
Dazed and Confused,Ferris Bueller's Day Off and the John Hughes
classics like 16 Candles and The Breakfast Club; films that dove into
the sexuality, partying, and innocence of high school. The late 90s and
early 2000s brought on a wave of high school rom/com films like 10
Things I Hate About You,Clueless, American Pie, Drive Me Crazy, Can't
Hardly Wait, and She's All That, comedies that focused on the romance
aspects of high school,specifically dating and prom. The later 2000s
changed again with Napoleon Dynamite, Juno, Superbad, Easy A, and Mean
Girls, films that showed a much quirkier comedy side of high school and
focused more on popularity and the fears and consequences of bullying.And with the past few years that have gone by, I feel as if the design
of a good high school film has once again shifted. Sure, we still see
films like Prom, Project X, and 21 Jump Street that fit past high
school forms, but I feel the focus on a lot of new films seems to be
moving towards an authentic representation of the high school
experience. While the crazy parties, overly sexualized youths, and
Cinderella-esque romance stories interested audiences for years,
filmmakers seem to be moving in a direction of creating real, genuine
characters for the audience to fall in love with. We saw this last year
with The Perks of Being a Wallflower, a film that is full of quirk,
romance, and youth drama, but created honest characters and a very
realistic story.Even more authentic than The Perks of Being a Wallflower (to the point
that Perks looks hokey) comes James Ponsoldt's (Off the Black, Smashed)
third feature film, The Spectacular Now. The film follows the life of
Sutter (Miles Teller), a very popular and loved member of a high school
senior class that struggles with the reality of his high school years
coming to an end. While Sutter may be the life of the party and a
charismatic and fun person to be around, most of his classmates see him
as nothing more than a out-going buddy at social events that isn't
going anywhere in life. When his girlfriend Cassidy (Brie Larson)
breaks it off with him, Sutter turns to a night of drinking that ends
with him passed out on the grass.Enter Aimee (Shailene Woodley), who wakes Sutter up on her front lawn
on her way to delivering papers on her mother's paper route. Sutter
joins Aimee on the news delivery ride and finds that she is incredibly
easy to get along with and could be someone he might have a good time
hanging out with. He invites Aimee to a party later that day and before
you know it, a relationship is formed. Full of high school innocence
and a strong chemistry, Sutter and Aimee make a great couple that is
easy for the audience to quickly fall in love with.But Sutter's life is consistently eating away at him. Constantly
drinking booze, whether it be at school or on the job (alcoholism being
nothing foreign to a James Ponsoldt film) and wishing to meet his
father that had separated with his mother when he was young, Sutter's
relationship with Aimee is the one thing that makes him happy day to
day. Even when his friend questions why he would be dating her, Sutter
knows that there is a connection with Aimee that keeps him loving life
and living in the moment; away from the oncoming train of graduation.
But is the relationship the couple has strong enough to keep Sutter
away from his internal struggles and is Sutter willing to let Aimee
come along for the ride? To read more (IMDb form too short) visit:
http://custodianfilmcritic.com/the-spectacular-now/
