3
Gene Roddenberry rolling over in his grave.

Where do I begin? As a lifelong Star Trek fan I had an uneasy feeling
while watching this movie. I could not shake the sense that I was just
looking at another mediocre summer popcorn flick; an experience that
would evaporate from my brain just hours after I leave the theater.I remember sitting in the cinema with my head low embarrassed by the
movie, although I wanted it to prove me wrong ever since I saw the
"Beastie Boys" trailer back in 2015. Instead, it dragged along with
that "proven" Hollywood formula of what a summer hit should look like.
Constricted by its own creative limitations I was looking at a product
that was not a science fiction in its core, but a creation that had
only one intention since its birth: to milk as much money as possible.Star Trek Beyond was so devoid of the primordial concepts set up by Mr.
Gene Roddenberry that it contributed to the confused identity of the
picture. The plot of the movie is so "light" in its essence that it
lacks the moral dilemmas, the exploration (inner and outer) and the
development usually present in the Star Trek universe. There was
neither message nor any character evolution and we did not learn more
about anything really. Instead of Kirk, Spock and Scotty you could
stick just any name over the protagonists and nobody would have
noticed. The story was atrocious and full with plot holes patched up by
unnecessary although flashy looking CGI. Star Trek Beyond also has one of the weakest villains in its history.
It was definitely not the actors fault and such a shame to waste the
opportunity of having a strong artist like Idris Elba. It was the fault
of the writer and the director who missed the opportunity to take Star
Trek back on its track. Instead they created a cute flick full with
needless CGI scenes, explosions and dialogue written for "dumb"
audiences. Everything had to be explained to the viewers, nothing was
left to the imagination. There was nothing to debate with your friends
after the movie or something to stir your imagination or to push you to
prod its meaning. Nothing like that at all, everything was given on a
run-of-the-mill plate for the audience to consume in a shortest
possible time frame.The movie had its moments, so not everything was complete rubbish. I
liked the character of Jaylah and some of the humor, but that was it.
Some of the scenes were of course visually impressive though sometimes
things would fly around too much and contaminate the image. Of course
this movie was done by people, who know their job, but I am not
pondering the execution and the skill of the artists, I am merely
concerned about the soul of this thing we love so much. This thing we used to know of as Star Trek.
