5
One of the Most Overrated Films of the Year

I had been looking forward to this film for months, and upon finally
viewing it- it's a huge disappointment. Todd Haynes, who's finest
achievement is still Far From Heaven (2002), has a knack for creating
intimate atmospheres with radiant colors and backdrops. Like Far from
Heaven, he succeeds with the aesthetic values of the 1950s by giving us
refined art direction and beautiful costumes. Unlike Far from Heaven,
we are given wooden characters and a predictable script, with a score
by Carter Burwell that sounds exactly like Philip Glass's creation for
The Hours (2002).Rooney Mara works in a department store, and finds herself attracted to
Cate Blanchett, a well to do married woman who flirts with her while
shopping for Christmas presents. Later they have lunch, and in the only
truly well acted scene in the film, seem to connect almost
instantaneously. The dialogue here is cleverly limited- so we can
instead watch the suggestive gestures of both characters that indicate
sexual attraction- and tension. It's too bad this is the only scene I
felt was able to capture this. The rest of the movie unfolds like a
poorly written episode of the series Mad Men, as the women keep meeting
up secretly whilst the husband gets suspicious and even hires a
detective to follow them to a hotel so he can later gain custody of
Blanchett's child. This is because homosexuality is "naughty".Perhaps the reason I felt bored watching Carol was that the material is
old and tired. Sexual repression in the 50s? We've seen this so many
times. Brokeback Mountain (2005) also dealt with homosexuality with two
men- and with much sharper direction and a more interesting story. The
actors there were also more believable. Speaking of the acting, Cate
Blanchett is indeed the standout. She's not nearly as strong as I had
heard or hoped for, but she's none the less ravishing and breathtaking
to gaze upon. She's at the peek of her career now, with 2 Oscars under
her belt, and indeed Carol should easily earn her a deserved 7th
nomination. But besides a juicy scene towards the end, the character
isn't that intriguing. There's a lot to be desired, and that easily
could be the fault of the screenwriter (Phyllis Nagy), who adapted the
script. Yes I get it- it's supposed to be subtle, but this character
felt empty. Blanchett is a fine actress- we could have gotten some more
fire from her character.Rooney Mara is even more flat. She relies simply on her pretty face. I
kept thinking Natalie Portman would have exuded so much more energy
with the role, since both women have similar physical dynamics to their
facial structures. Mara just comes off weak. There's not an ounce of
integrity or feeling coming through with this performance. If that's
how she was supposed to play it, then the fault lies in the director.
How she won at Cannes is beyond me. She's not impressive at all. She's
pretty, but that doesn't constitute good acting.The rest of the cast is easily forgettable. Sarah Paulson has a
thankless role, and she's usually very good (watch her in 12 Years a
Slave). Mara's boyfriend is the worst acting I've seen all year; very
high school drama club. Everyone else is going through their lines in a
robotic tone.This could have been an exceptional film. And I'm in the minority who
didn't like it (it's currently one of the top reviewed films of 2015,
and destined to be crowned with nominations on Oscar morning). But it
left me feeling cold, and bored. I might just be sick of seeing movies
about the 1950s and how everyone couldn't "talk about things like being
gay, and sex, and racial relations" back then. The subject has been
hammered over my head too many times. But the trailer for this movie
was a love letter. Why couldn't the movie be the same? Mara and
Blanchett are supposed to be in love, and yet their first meeting
aside- I never really felt a true connection between them. There was
never enough juice in their chemistry for me to believe it.
