8
Far more thoughtful and realistic - disturbing and scary

In The Purge Anarchy the new founding fathers sanction another
murderous cleanse.The Purge Anarchy revisits the gruesome dystopia in the not so distant
future where for twelve hours all sanctioned crime is legal and all
rescue services are suspended. The nation is reborn, unemployment and
crime are at record lows, all because of the annual night for
decriminalized murder to unleash pent up American rage.Five virtual strangers join together to survive when, after several
unrelated but harrowing events, all find themselves on the street and
in jeopardy on purge night. There is no security system, minimal
defense and there is little hope.Despite being marketed as a horror film The Purge Anarchy feels more
like a thriller. The potential for a despicable act of inhumanity is
imminent and occurs frequently throughout the film. Yet, its display is
the antithesis of a masturbatory gore fest relishing in the suffering,
evocative of torture-porn. Instead, the brutality is appropriately out
of focus in the background, almost as an afterthought, consistent with
the desensitized society.The approach of James DeMonaco's direction is on point with the message
of the film. He creates a disconcerting feeling with a deserted
cityscape, seemingly lit at night by flickering yellow streetlights
casting shrouded shadows. Certain scenes are realistically and
deliberately shaky and imperfect to draw the audience into the
character's peril.One can not talk about a second installment to a franchise without
returning to its predecessor, in this case The Purge. Acclaimed as a
novel premise and potentially unsettling look into the primal aspect of
human nature, it left something to be desired. The story had so many
places it could go that were raw and savage; yet, The Purge was
slightly simplistic and flawed but still enjoyable. Once again James
DeMonaco took the helm as writer and director of The Purge's sequel
Anarchy. This time DeMonaco's execution was able to address criticisms
by delving further into concept, but from a different perspective: the
working class. In doing so we see a harsher existence, far less
idealistic and a more depraved purge night.The difference between The Purge and The Purge Anarchy is that the
active tormenters for this purge are not all unhinged closeted maniacs
hiding behind masks. Anarchy takes the end of The Purge and goes more
in-depth. Those participating are frustrated and exhausted but
ultimately they are people. Most terrifyingly it proposes a
hypothetical and disturbingly feasible purge experience for the upper
class. The nefarious top 10% obligingly exercise their civic
responsibility and now government granted right in style and comfort.
The Purge Anarchy is a commentary on society and social inequality in
the most gruesome of circumstances.The film's ability to play into our inner fears, that deep within
anyone there is a darkness capable of unspeakable evil, is pivotal to
its success. While I wish The Purge Anarchy hadn't tried to tidy the
story up and resolve everything I did find it far more realistic and
thought provoking than the former.More reviews of recent releases can be found at our website.
