3
The perfect summer movie!! For dumbasses.

I should have realised that this was a sequel to the execrable Journey
To The Centre Of The Earth. I could have figured out what was to come,
seeing The Rock on the cover, and a washed-up Michael Caine after an
easy pay day. I would have saved myself 82 minutes to do something more
constructive, like bang my head against a brick wall. But I didn't, so
I deserved everything I got.This is, to put it bluntly, a Moronic film for Morons. Everyone in it
is a moron. The director and writer are morons. Everyone who likes it,
is a... you guessed it.Its okay... and fans of it wouldn't be insulted,
because they won't know what goes next in the sentence. This is cynical
film-making at its worst... Afraid to put anything resembling
intelligence in it lest the brainless hordes out there get confused, it
dishes up sparse, lukewarm thrills while annoying us with five
pathetic, stock characters right from the back of the sofa.Meet The Rock (Otherwise known as Dwayne Johnson) a big man with a
heart of gold. He's just married into a family and his new stepson
(played by Josh Hutcherson) is a complete brat who breaks into
buildings at night and drives his motorcycle into swimming pools. A
spot in juvie should help this young rapscallion out... but NO...
Stepdad decides to gallivant off with his adopted hellspawn to a
distant island on a treasure map Hutcherson has just discovered, to
'prove it doesn't exist'. As you do.Along the way, they pick up the impossibly breasted Vanessa Hudgens (In
case we don't get the point, she flaunts her assets in every scene) and
the alleged Comic Relief Luis Guzman who acts like a retard at every
given moment, while using a funny voice. If you liked Jar Jar Binks,
this dude will be right up your alley. They find the Mysterious Island,
and on it is no other than Mr Michael Caine, who is Josh's grandfather.
As a nutty professor type fella, he phones in his performance, and you
can see the dollar signs in his eyes.Everything about this production reeks of lack of effort, from the
stilted dialogue, to the boring plot. Worst still though, is the
attempts at drama... the bonding scenes between The Rock, Caine and
Hutchinson are embarrassing to say the least, and the chemistry between
Hudgens and Hutchinson is so non-existent you're reminded of a shotgun
wedding. As for the aforementioned Guzman... Well, he tries. He's VERY
trying. Something big needs to eat that guy already. Alas, nothing
does.In fact, there is a shocking lack of thrills in this film. The poster
shows the cast running away from a giant lizard over her eggs, and that
honestly is the high point. The only other incidents that come to mind
are a chase involving mounted bees being attacked by a massive bird,
and an encounter with an electric eel underwater. Thatr's it. The rest
of the time we have to tolerate the tiresome shenanigans of Dwayne and
co as they snooze us into submission with their antics.The worst of which involves the unforgettable moment The Rock moves his
nipple pecs in time with each other, then he gets a lucky volunteer to
chuck berries at his chest, whereon the fruit gets deflected here,
there and everywhere. He tells his son this demented activity is a
'chick magnet'. Well, I've got a 'chick repellent'. Take your love out
to see this as your first date movie, and see how long you last. I
predict next week, she'll be washing her hair when you call her. Every
single day.
