9
A Hilarious Beautiful Romantic Comedy

I wanna start by saying even though not thinking this is Wes Anderson's
best movie, that after watching this movie I can really understand why
so many people thinks so. It is everything you could want from a Wes Anderson movie, romance,
adventure, beautiful visuals, amazing comedy, and brilliant acting and
directing. This movie, like many others of his movies, was just like a
weird fairy tale world, it is almost like going back to childhood when
you watch this amazing movie.Again Wes managed to pull me in to his fairy tale world and I can only
say I love it. All I can say is Wes have not disappointed me yet and I doubt he ever
will. I mean the fact that this movie was only nominated for 1 Oscar
and didn't even win it is one of the reasons why I don't take the
Oscars that seriously anymore. This is not only one of the best
romantic comedy's I have ever seen (haven't seen that many) but it is
also one of the best adventure movies I know of. The story is about a boy has escaped his Khaki scout troop both because
he was very unpopular, but mostly because he has met a young girl who
he is supposed to escape with. After they meet you see them trying to
hide from the police and the scout troop and you see them slowly
falling in love. And I know the story sound kinda cheesy but trust me
this movie is amazing.The acting is brilliant, especially the kid actors. First the young
runaways Jared Gilman and Kara Hayward some of the best child actors I
have seen in a long time, gives us some amazing performances. Then of
course the Hollywood stars. Edward Norton gives us a totally different
role, have never thought he would be right for a comedy. Bruce Willis
also gives a hilarious, again very different from what I normally see
him in. There are so many great performances I am just gonna say a few
names I remember, Bill Murray, Tilda Swinton, Frances McDormand, Lucas
Hedges, and many others.I am gonna finish by saying, if you are a fan of Wes Anderson then be
prepared for one of the best movie experiences in your life, I can
truly only say good things about this amazing artwork. I hope you found
this review helpful and I hope you will love the movie as much as I do.
