1
Awful plot. People in this movie are sheep without character

I don't get what all the 10's are about. I don't see how this movie is
a 10, or rather even an 8. There are so many plot holes, the characters
are so one dimensional, action sequences OK at best.Where do I even begin. Banes voice. I admit, I didn't get what he was
saying more than half the time, and even then I had to strain really
hard. It was just awful. There were jokes about not understanding Bales
growling, but this, this is something else. The movie would have been
better without him talking.Catwoman! Suddenly she feels remorse and becomes goody goody at the
end, Oh the lord, this was about as predictable as rain in
Seattle(very, if you're unsure).Talia, what a big face-palm. Might as well have made a movie when the
Batman woke up from a dream at that point. Can the plot get ANY more
clichéd? Thanks for popping up the MAIN criminal at the end of the
movie, who apparently had the hots for Batman.Batman, his screen time is mostly groaning and screaming and getting
beaten around in boxing by Bane. He becomes a superior fighter by
jumping across the ledge? I think that's not how the body works. There
isn't any Batman stuff at all. Just punching and kicking. Muhammad Ali
would have been a better hero to fit that role (Yay, incoming dislikes
from people who don't know who that is). Also, big copter no one can
find, yea right.Sheep followers wanting to get blown up. Ya, because getting evaporated
by a nuclear bomb is so awesome that every "mercenary" wants to do it.
Oh, but they didn't know that they'd be blown up.All policemen going underground like a herd of cows because they want
to scout out the underground operations and therefore getting caught.
Sigh.Big fight scenes. Police officers don't walk in formation with guns
against a bunch of mercenaries on higher ground and they all don't
start shooting at point blank range. No. That's not how police work. Or
any modern force with guns. That ONLY works in Lord of the Rings,
because they had SWORDS! Who wrote this script?The other batman movies were good. The first one was great. The second
was good too. This one is ridiculous. I don't know how people can be so
blind to so many obvious flaws. Even with that, the best moments in
this film are...unimpressive. Did I go into the theater with high
hopes. Not at all. I expected average, I was disappointed to not find
even that.Will be ever get another Prestige from these guys? I hope so.
