8
Speaking as a Terminator-fan: Excellent. At times perfect.

I am a huge Terminator fan. Terminator 2 is my favorite movie ever, and
I find it to be the best movie ever made.So yeah, this review is biased, but not to an extreme degree.Let me just say: Yes, there is some cheesiness to this movie, but I
just don't really care. I want entertainment.Terminator Genisys is an excellent movie for Terminator fans. It's for
the fans. It's the Terminator sequel we deserve. I'm one of those who
liked Terminator 3, but Genisys is definitely more in tune with
Camerons original two.If you are not a fan, though. First off, why are you not a fan? Either
you are too young, or you.. well, what the hell's wrong with you!?
(Kidding...A little bit) Anyway, if you are not a fan this is still an
entertaining action movie. It looks really good, the effects are pretty
much top notch, the action is entertaining, the parts that are supposed
to be are exciting, the acting is mostly solid. Some reviews I've seen
say it's devoid of humor, but I disagree. There are small jokes
sprinkled pretty evenly around.But for the fans.. Oh my. This is so in tune with Camerons originals! I
think the only one who could have made this any better is Cameron
himself. Of course, it would have been a much better movie-experience if the
trailers hadn't spoiled so much, but whaddayagonnado!? When there's a
trailer for a new Terminator-movie, I'm gonna see that trailer. But even if the trailers spoiled a lot, I won't. I will say this though. There are a lot of nods, references, and direct
connections to Camerons originals here. You will recognize plenty of
stuff. Some big, some smaller. Sound effects, visual stuff, it is very
true to Camerons vision. Very nice. And the song, oh, just pierces my
heart!I am also happy to say that they have brought back some of the more
emotional concepts that we loved from T2, and that was sorely missing
from T3. Not to the same extent as in T2, but still, a lot better than
the two previous entries.Funny thing is that almost none of the main actors are American, haha.
Austria, Australia, England, Korea representin'! Anyhow, the actors are
all good. I'm not super loving Jay Courtney, but he did alright.
Emilia, Jason, Byung-hun - all real good. Seeing Arnold again, damn! He
is just great. Just seeing his name at the beginning, I almost teared
up! The fact that it's PG13 didn't bother me much either. Yeah the blood
was awesome in T2, but it's alright that we don't get it here. As for
the nudity, it wouldn't have hurt us, but hey, partial nudity is
alright too. Anyway the rating doesn't take anything away, there's
still plenty of violence. It is just fantastic to see Terminator-stuff made with 2015-
technology. Those endoskeletons.. Awesome! And a certain scene
partially lifted from a certain movie, damn! So cool to see.I haven't got much bad to say, some of the dialogue and one-liners
could have been a tad better, a couple of the jokes are a little
overused, but it's mostly nitpicking I think. Also, yes, there are plot holes, but what do you expect? The whole
premise of Terminator is impossible anyway.I can honestly say, as a life long (I saw T2 the first time when I was
really little) Terminator-fan, I enjoyed the hell out of this. Already
looking forward to seeing it again. It was at times perfect. Very
entertaining.Now go see it people, so it makes good in them boxoffices. I want more
of these!
