7
Bleak But Bountiful

December 19, 2014A homesman is someone tasked to bring people back to their homes. In
this film, the people that needed safe transport are three mentally-
disturbed women. Mary Bee McCuddy, a plain but hardy spinster,
volunteered to be their homesman. Along the way, she rescues a old man
Thomas Briggs from being hung by vigilantes and conscripts him to help
her with her mission in exchange for saving his life. Together, they
gather the three ladies and escort them from Nebraska homes across the
dangerous Midwest prairie to a safe haven in Iowa.Hilary Swank is an actress who had already won a couple of Oscars for
playing strong women who had taken on masculine roles in life --
Brandon Teena in "Boys Don't Cry" and Maggie Fitzgerald in "Million
Dollar Baby". As Mary Bee McCuddy, a pioneer lady who bravely accepts a
task only men are expected to do, Swank again goes on the same
award-baiting path. The movie worked so well when Swank was on screen.
She was absolutely compelling in this offbeat role as if this was
written with her in mind. The movie was not the same when her character
was not there.Tommy Lee Jones is one actor who, as of late, had seemingly been
confined to playing curmudgeonly and cantankerous old men, and his
Briggs here is not any different. This film is only Jones' second
directorial effort since his critically-acclaimed debut in "Three
Burials of Melquiades Estrada" back in 2005. As director, he was very
generous to his lead female star Swank, and always gave way to let her
shine. As actor, he does consistently as he is expected but this role
of a grumpy old outlaw seems too familiar for him already. He wisely
played Briggs with some self-deprecating humor to break the tendency of
the story to become monotonously bleak.There were some remarkable cameos from other award-winning or nominated
stars in much smaller roles. John Lithgow is his usual capable self
playing the Reverend Dowd who reluctantly sends McCuddy off on her
task. Hailee Steinfeld plays 16-year old Tabitha Hutchinson to whom
Briggs offers a surprising proposal. James Spader, in his usual
over-the-top style, plays condescending hotel owner Aloysius Duffy. And
last, but definitely not the least, none other than THE Meryl Streep
plays perfectly kind and hospitable Altha Carter, who runs the
institution in Iowa the women are headed for. These actors appear on
screen for only ten minutes or so, but they leave a lasting impression.The narrative may have been slow and desolate . However, the unusual
situations, disturbing imagery, startling story developments and
committed performances by the cast all keep our attention riveted. The
cinematography with the muted colors worked well with the windswept
landscape of its setting, as much a character in itself. The costumes
and production design rang true to its mid-19th century time period.
The haunting and unsettling musical score create an atmosphere of
bitter emptiness. The insufferably miserable topic is clearly not for
everyone. But for those who decide to give it a chance, the rewards
will be satisfying. 7/10.
