4
Such a sad farewell.

I really can't get how in the world people are rating this movie as
highly as they are. You would think they have never seen this done, and
done better.Yes, I understand that Logan is a heartfelt character dear to us, but
THINK people! For that very same reason we should be holding this movie
to a higher standard, and not giving it an emotional pass.To, me, this film was slow and depressing a-la No Country For Old Men,
without ANY of the Oscar-worthiness. It was just droll, SUPER
PREDICTABLE, moronic in its' execution and so very far-fetched. (Yes,
imagine saying 'far-fetched' for a movie based on a comic)! They spun
and bent a bunch of things to get them to where they were in the year
2029 and tried to make it believable (it wasn't). Then, they try to
impress upon your heartstrings Logan's connection or ties to the little
girl, but the connection or ties are SILLY at best. THEN, let me get this straight ... you are trying like hell to get away
from the bad guys, and ummmmmm, you STOP FOR A MINI VACATION - not
ONCE, but TWICE, and put hundreds of strangers in jeopardy the first
time and a nice family in danger the second time. Seriously, anyone who
could get over that gaping ridiculousness and who can, after that, in
good conscience give this movie anything above a 6 is just messing with
you or has total fan-boy blinders on. As for the little girl, god, she was annoying and aggravating AF and
90% of her screen time was spent shrieking. No, not screaming.
SHRIEKING.The rest of the acting was good. The family they added as filler in the
middle of the movie was the only thing IMO that you kind of cared
about. Even old Professor X had seen better days and you kind of wanted
it to be over for him. It was just painful to watch, and I don't mean
in a moving way where the film is made better, but in a painful oh god,
kill him off already way.*** BIG SPOILERS BELOW *** DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THE MOVIE
OR ARE PLANNING ON SEEING IT!!!The ending was unreal in how bad it was. Without giving too much away
... you have one little girl who is able to take out like 10-12 guys,
PLUS Wolverine, PLUS a BUNCH of other mutant kids who have varying
degrees of mutant abilities, and yet they can't take out a small group
of bad guys? W T H ?As for Hugh Jackman, he was good and played Logan like he always has
done except maybe this time he looked older and more tired which was a
good thing because it translated unto the screen and gave Wolverine
some credibility. Otherwise he was just there. The gushing over his
acting this time around IMO is unwarranted, as he really didn't do
anything that much different than he has on every other X-Men movie and
if anyone disagrees, I defy them to point out what. All in all, I wasn't impressed. Don't get me wrong - it wasn't a horribly BAD movie, I just don't agree
that it was any good and I really don't agree with the overrating or
the assessment that it is in ANY way a "masterpiece". If you look at it
just on paper, you would think that the people that are reacting to it
in such a way have ONLY EVER watched comic-book movies in their lives
and have now seen a drama sold as a comic-book movie and their brains
are processing it as innovative and different.In closing, I understand that Hugh Jackman is getting older, and the
great dilemma was 'how exactly do you keep making movies with an actor
who is aging, playing a character who is supposed to rejuvenate or
heal'? You don't. You kindly retire the character, as the creators of
the franchise have chosen to do. The thing is, they could have really
made it to where it wasn't SO depressing and/or bleak with no real
outlook toward the future but a bunch of kids you aren't really
invested in or care one iota about. A bad ending for a good character,
was just bad cinema. RIP Logan.My actual rating is 7/10, but some reviewers have gone over the top
crazy with the 10s.
