5
A major disappointment.

Finally being able to watch this movie, I was stoked! I loved the first
film, and it was about time to watch another light-hearted but
intelligent movie about dragons and vikings in a universe I quickly
learned to love. What a bummer.The subtle humor and cuteness of the first movie has been utterly
demolished by slapstick that would put early Monty Python to shame and
repeated gags that weren't funny to begin with. Oddly timed jokes
seemingly thrown out at random took the edge off of a lot of situations
that actually needed to be played out to the fullest.Now, one thing I loved about the first movie was the balance between
mature themes, expertly crafted into a believable story that both kids
and adults could enjoy. The absence of a classical villain - instead
leaving misunderstanding and fear as the culprits - gave it an edge and
a message I don't recall seeing in any other animated movie. Sadly,
it's sequel seems to completely ignore the success of this formula, and
tackles huge and serious situations such as abandonment of one's
family, the death of a loved one by the hand of a loved one, and
treason in a manner that leaves me in wanting of other plot devices it
can actually sustain as a movie primarily targeted towards children.
The villain seems utterly forced, and lacks any credibility whatsoever.
I never once truly believed that a raving monkey-man like that managed
to subdue and bend the will of powers that were far superior to him.
His motives are ridiculous, his back-story (which he apparently tells
anybody that crosses his path in an instant) is as thin as a single
sheet of toilet paper, and his personal integrity and conviction just
makes him seem like something they just threw in there on a whim.I really wanted to enjoy this movie, but I just couldn't! I couldn't
force myself to believe the family reunion and how lightly everybody
took it. I couldn't believe the villain. Frankly, I could hardly
believe anything! That's not to say the movie is entirely void of anything enjoyable. I
like the way they keep fleshing out our main protagonist and his
entourage - particularly his relationship to shield maiden Astrid. I
just wish the rest of the movie would be approached with the same
thought through storytelling.As much as I'd love to love it, I must sadly go back and re-watch both
the first one and this once again. It might have been my mood when I
watched it, or it might be another case of "The Dark Knight Rises-" a
movie I found so utterly horrendous and pointless it still makes me
angry to think of the great reviews it received. At least How to Train
Your Dragon 2 was better than that one...
