7
Disturbingly funny and interesting movie

The Good: The most surprising thing about this movie was how it
uniquely found a way to be scary, but still include funny moments
throughout the film. It knew when to be funny, and when to be scary,
without mixing the two together. The scary parts will provide quite a
few jump- scares, and in some scenes they will simply disturb you. The
young boy, "Tyler" (played by Ed Oxenbould ), will quickly become a
favorite in this film with his various remarks, "swearing", and
"skills". I think it's fair to say that "Nana", played by Deanna
Dunagan, does a really good job of playing the crazy grandma given all
the versatile things she did in the movie. For some, the plot twist in
the story will be mild, but good nevertheless.The Bad: As we've come to know from director M. Night Shyamalan (The
6th Sense, Signs), the "big twist" is to be expected. Because of that,
if you're an over-analyzer of movies like me, you'll probably see the
twist coming from a mile away. So in that aspect, the story is mildly
predictable. (That doesn't ruin the movie though) Many of the scary
scenes you'll see coming, and for the most part are not terrifying to
the point that will give you nightmares. It's very generic horror and
scare tactics that we've seen before.The Reason: Okay, so here's the real deal about this movie. M. Night
Shyamalan is known for having a really bad reputation for putting out
movies like Lady in the Water, The Village, The Happening, and others.
He started off great with The 6th Sense and Signs, but since then,
audiences have been generally disappointed. Luckily for The Visit, this
movie was not one of his bad films. It was disturbingly funny and scary
at the same time. This film is like his "makeup movie" to audiences.
For example, in a relationship, if a guy messes up and constantly
disappoints his girlfriend, he may give her flowers as an apology. Now
the girlfriend may like the flowers, but that doesn't mean the
boyfriend is completely forgiven. Shyamalan is in the same boat. The
Visit is his "flowers" to audiences. We'll take it, but he's still got
a lot more work to do to make up for all the other not-so-great movies
he's given us.Take caution if you decide to see it. It's a unique movie. Not a
Hollywood blockbuster by any means, but I wouldn't be surprised if many
would enjoy it. To see this movie I recommend: Go in with low
expectations, pay the matinée price, and go with a friend or date.
(You'll want to talk about it afterwards)The Rating: 7/10For more of my reviews visit: www.EmansMovieReviews.com
