4
Mother Of Intentions

Try to imagine Darren Aronfski with all his talent, preparing Mother in
silence working with great actors, re-polishing the script and without
the weight of a huge budget. I'm sure Roman Polanski had pressure from
the studio to make concessions here and there but look at Rosemary's
Baby and tell me. What concessions? I heard Martin Donovan, the
director of Apartment Zero, a few months ago, explaining why he hasn't
made an American film in 20 years. It was an explanation I'll never
forget. He didn't blame anyone or anything, there was no blame of any
kind but a deep and I should say, humble reflection and the fruit of
his reflection was expressed, beautifully, in his excitement as he
prepares his next film. I remembered his words as I watched Mother! Try
to imagine Darren Aronfski with all his talent, giving time for the
baby to be totally form and ready to be born. Working with great, new,
unknown actors, without pyrotechnics but just the truth within the
symbols (if any) - I love Jennifer Lawrence and I would have loved to
see her play this role at the time of Winter's Bone - regardless of her
youth. I believe that small private dreams/nightmares should be told
with a feeling of privacy. Think Roman Polanski himself played the meek
tittle character in The Tenant and the journey in Mia Farrow's eyes
throughout Rosemary's Baby, Colin Firth's invisibility in Apartment
Zero. In Mother there is also a Luis Bunuel touch from The
Exterminating Angel but in Bunuel we live the surreal mystery with all
our five senses. In Mother, we keep questioning, at a distance. No
matter how close you come with the camera. Jennifer Lawrence is lovely
but she starts with fear in her eyes and she stays there throughout.
Javier Bardem is a sloppy variation of John Cassavetes in Rosemary's
Baby. Ed Harris, as usual, superb as the Sidney Blackmer of the
situation and Michelle Pfeiffer, who provides the biggest and most
welcome surprise in a character clearly based on Ruth Gordon's Minnie
in the same Polanski masterpiece. For all of the above I felt, sitting
through Mother! A long and irritating experience. Now, I'd like to set
a complaint about this, who shall I call?
