9
Surprising

I had high hopes for this movie because of Robert Zemeckis, Brad Pitt,
and Marion Cotillard. I definitely went into it prepared for a WWII
movie, full of action and special effects. And to be clear, this movie
certainly DOES have action and special effects (what Zemeckis film
doesn't?), but it goes beyond that. The actions scenes, when they do happen, are well choreographed and fun
to watch. They also earn the movie it's rating, and are brutal but not
overbearing. Marion and Brad are both convincing, proving to the
audience that they are well- trained spies who don't hesitate to kill.Something I found very interesting about this movie is that while it's
not primarily a war film, it did provide a very interesting look at
what life was like for people. This was a time when people partied like
the world was ending. Drinks, drugs, sex, etc. But this was also a time
when people sometimes watched planes get shot out of the sky. It's a
fascinatingly personal way of portraying the war, and the people living
through it.The special effects are stunning, Zemeckis seamlessly blending reality
and effects. Many scenes are simply breathtaking. It's puzzling how the
movie manages to be both classic and modern.As I mentioned though, this movie is more than just war and special
effects. By the end, there are a few clear themes; putting what's best
for those you love above your own needs, and trying your hardest to
believe the best of/trust those closest to you. Even if it means you
have to break some rules, or even put your own life on the line. The ending, which some say is overly-sentimental, hit a chord that
worked for me. It showed the lengths people go to to protect their
family. However people complain about the Forest Gump ending, and that
one makes me cry almost every time I see it. So if I'm in the minority
here, I'm not at all surprised.One last thing that I thought this movie did very well, was showing
just how difficult it would truly be for spies to fall in love. For the
first half of the movie, the two are basically brought together and
drawn to each other because of their abilities. They live, supposedly,
very similar lives. They are evenly matched. They fit together in every
sense because of their mastery of espionage. And yet, once the twist
comes along, that same mastery of espionage is what tears them apart.
Marion's ability to lie, once a great asset, is now their greatest
enemy. It's a wonderful way to weave the story together, and makes for
some excellent tension as well as irony. Overall, Allied is absolutely a mix. It has espionage, it has war, it
has assassinations, it has parties, it has family, it has
romantic/steamy (quite steamy, might I add) moments, it has costumes
and scenery, it has a mystery to be solved, etc. And some of these
things it does magnificently. Some of these things it does just
well-enough. But it does it all. Which is more than can be said for
most movies these days.This movie certainly deserves the R rating. There is nudity, multiple
sex scenes, a decent amount of violence, language, drugs. If you are a fan of classic movies, watch it. Is it perfect? No, it
certainly has weak points and flaws. But overall I was thoroughly
entertained by it. It kept me on the edge of my seat, and I will
definitely be buying this on Blu-Ray, hopefully with lots of insight
into how this film was made and what technologies Zemeckis used.
