1
Pigs Swill

I once heard someone say that chart music is music for people who don't
like music. I couldn't agree more. Daytime radio in the UK sucks, and
the playlist totals about 20 songs which get played over and over,
every single day. No originality, nothing to inspire, nothing to get
your teeth into - just like this movie. The Internship is basically a
film for people who don't like films.Just what section of the cinematic audience this pile of tripe is aimed
at I really don't know. Maybe it's teenagers, those Dre wearing plastic
headphone types who like to think they live in a land of cool and
internet worldliness, but then it features two middle-aged heroes
trying to find a job at Google so how does that compute? Pardon the
pun.Is it aimed at confused adults then? Showing two hapless characters,
trying to connect with the modern world, creating havoc along the way,
some slapstick laughs, poking fun at our internet based lives, and
generally piling on the jibes at web nerds expense? Erm, maybe, but
then.... this movie is about as funny as root canal. What you get here is a headache inducing, cerebral bombing, diarrhoea
of pointless noise masquerading as "cinema" which is the aural
equivalent of a strobe light for your earholes. Not one aspect of the
dialogue herein is worth catching. I suspect that the makers just
thought that if they hit you with a blur of meaningless words, really
really quickly, you might think you saw something of unapparent
usefulness. The result being, a sensation of getting an electric
eggwhisk inserted into your brain and switched on.I find it sad that either someone thought there was a market for this
total waste of celluloid and time, or even worse...that somewhere out
there, there actually are people who enjoy garbage like this. I guess
it may actually be the latter as we live in a world slowly descending
into mediocrity and superficiality, and here, this movie is king.I feel embarrassed to say I saw this movie, because I know someone is
laughing somewhere after cashing in on knowing it's easy to feed pigs
anything and they will eat it. There are others though, who have more
discerning tastes.
