9
A wonderful, nostalgic, and artful cinematic experience~

It's all fun and games at Litwak's Fun Center, until someone gets hurt.
While this cliché'd line seems to reflect the simple plot in most
movies (while the moral outcome does, too), the setting makes Wreck-it
Ralph a wonderful, refreshing, and unique pleasure. Inside a family
arcade, all the game characters (both old and new) are real, and travel
among the other games when the doors have locked. Ralph, from Fix-it
Felix Jr., desperately wished to be a good guy, and be rewarded, so he
sets off in search of a medal. By doing this, he sets off a chain of
events that puts multiple games at risk, and unveils a hidden threat.Disney has made this film equally accessible by both parents and
children, and I find that wondrous. At times, Vanellope sounded quite
mature, and at others, just like a tod. Soon, kids will squeal in
excitement when they find a Fix-it Felix Jr. game, along with other
last-gen arcade delights. In this way, the film has rendered itself
timeless, if only in that small way. Although it doesn't feature many
of the games themselves, you are able to see many characters, including
retired ones.Being inside a game world gave the artists a great deal of freedom, but
they didn't waste it. At every new turn, another extremely creative
point would grab your attention, and I'm sure I missed many (which
would enhance a second viewing). Another big enhancement is the 3D
atmosphere. I doubted I would ever say this, but I urge you to see this
in 3D, or turn around and go home. Because of all the pixel-related
artwork, and 3D modeling, it is natural to have such a dimension added
on. It's the perfect film to have it for!Now, for all the extra material surrounding the movie. Similar to
Pixar, Disney has included an animated short right before, called "The
Paperman". It doesn't feature any voice acting, but it's hilarious, and
very well-made. I am sure you'll enjoy it. Second, the end credits are
worth watching through, but not because there's an extra scene (there
isn't one). It's only worth it for the visuals during the credits
themselves, in 3D.In conclusion, Wreck-it Ralph is family-safe, and highly enjoyable. See
it in 3D as soon as you can!
