7
Good Enough As Long As You Don't Think Of It As A Horror Film

I remember the 1992 version of Dracula by Francis Ford Coppola and
thinking that the best part of that version was the anti-heroic Prince
Vlad defending Europe against the Ottoman invasion . I do believe there
is a market for a historical epic featuring the true life story of Vlad
the impaler . This version from 2014 does come close to it in some ways
but let's be honest and say no one is going to watch any movie with
Dracula in the title unless it features a vampire in the title role and
one wonders how many people might have been disappointed by the
marketing if not the title alone ? One group of people who will be bitterly disappointed will be Turks .
While the Persians are still recovering from their portrayal in 300 and
its sequel the Muslim Turks might have just been lured in to a sense of
false security after MIDNIGHT EXPRESS but low and behold along comes DU
. The Turks aren't painted in a good light and one wonders if there
might be a rather dubious subtext when the Sultan demands a thousand
boys for his army ? That said at least Vlad himself isn't a noble
traditional type of nationalist hero and the film does show him
struggling against internal dilemmas . It's not really an actors type
of character driven cinema but Luke Evans is suitably brooding while
best performance is Dominic Cooper as Mehmed who doesn't appear on
screen often enough here and is probably the film's trump card DU isn't a masterpiece and again it's very important that you go in to
this film with the knowledge it's more of a dark sword and sorcery type
tale rather than a horror movie . It wasn't until after I saw it that I
found out Universal Pictures might be using it to do a reboot of their
monster franchise from the 1930s and 40s which explains the ending that
jars with the rest of the movie . Do we genuinely want another reboot
series ? As it stands this version of Dracula is more than adequate and
maybe we should let Eastern European vampires stay dead
