7
personal impact

Greetings again from the darkness. There is a fine line between getting
chewed out by your Costco supervisor one day and having the country
claim you as a hero the next. Just ask Jeff Bauman. On April 15, 2013
Jeff was near the finish line for the Boston Marathon, holding a
handmade sign in support of his runner-girlfriend Erin. When she was
still about a mile away, the two bombs went off, killing three people
and injuring hundreds. Mr. Bauman lost his legs that day.When Jeff regained consciousness in the hospital (after two surgeries),
he was able to provide the FBI a detailed physical description of one
of the bombers. His information led directly to the identification of
one of the scumbag brothers responsible for this atrocity. Immediately,
Jeff was hailed as a hero – both locally and nationally. The film does
a nice job of telling Jeff's story and how his life unfolded over the
next few months.Director David Gordon Green is responsible for such disparate film
projects as OUR BRAND IS CRISIS, MANGLEHORN, and PINEAPPLE EXPRESS. He
may seem an odd choice to adapt the film from the book by Jeff Bauman
and Bret Witter (screenplay by John Pollono), but the story is so
moving and heart-warming, and the three lead actors are so good that we
immediately connect with each of them.Jake Gyllenhaal plays Jeff, Tatiana Maslany ("Orphan Black") plays
Erin, and Miranda Richardson tears up the screen as Jeff's mother,
Patty. Mr. Gyllenhaal is remarkable (as usual) as the working class
local boy who truly believes his lucky seat and beer determine success
or failure for his beloved Bruins and Red Sox. His initial portrayal is
spot on for the normal guy who seems caught in the web of eternal
teenage mentality so common in the male species. As he struggles with
his new life challenges, he strives to do better, but simply doesn't
understand why he is viewed as a hero … and doesn't particularly
embrace what comes with the label, at least early on. Ms. Maslany is
terrific as the guilt-ridden, confused-yet-strong, on-again-off- again
girlfriend to Jeff. She fights through being treated as an outsider by
the family, and the daily grind of caring for a guy who needs constant
help. The twice Oscar nominated Miranda Richardson is unlike we have
ever seen her on screen. Despite being a Brit, Ms. Richardson captures
the Boston sauciness (in more ways than one) and takes no 'stuff' from
anyone. Her performance is stunning.Of course, at its core, this is an inspirational story about how a
normal guy became a hero after a tragic event. The recent Mark Wahlberg
film PATRIOTS DAY focused on the aftermath and investigation, while
here the attention is on the emotional story of one man and one family.
We see the recreation of the flag-waving at the Boston Bruins game, and
the ceremonial first pitch at Fenway Park. We also see the obstacles
faced when rehabilitation and care- giving becomes too much to bear.
Carlos Arredondo and his cowboy hat and heroics are also given
much-deserved space here. His back story is heart-breaking, and a
reminder that everyone has a story, and each of us can be a hero in
some way. Since life isn't a movie, the realities are that Jeff and
Erin have since divorced, but that in no way reduces the impact of
their touching story that inspires each of us to be stronger.
