6
Everyone's Talking but Nobody's Listening. A Film.

Adam Sandler and Ben Stiller doing serious roles again? Directed by
Noah Baumbach? Alongside Dustin Hoffman? Sure thing. It's a Netflix
movie and I can watch it at home for "free"? Even better! I've never
been a massive Baumbach fan. His movies all sort of feel the same, and
tackle the same kind of issues, and Meyerowitz Stories is no different.
It's a quirky, indie dramedy about a dysfunctional family, complete
with piano soundtrack by Randy Newman.Danny and Matthew are half brothers who each experienced different
sides of their artistic father. Danny, feeling neglected for most his
life, has no job, has recently separated from his wife, and is sending
his daughter to college to become a film student. On the way he decides
to stay with his dad and his dad's latest wife while he figures out
what to do with his life next. Matthew, feeling like he was given too
much attention as a child, is a successful business manager who's
recently set up his own firm and lives on the opposite side of the
country.While I can't entirely empathise with the family dynamic, as my parents
stayed together, and I feel neither neglected or over-focused by them
(although my sister may feel differently), there was still a lot in
this movie that hit home. The biggest things that hit home include
Harold's grumpiness and reluctance to keep it to himself, caring little
for what other people around him think of him - that reminded me of my
late grandmother, and probably most elderly people - but what hit
hardest were the conversations between the characters. The majority of
dialogue is comprised of semi-monologues at each other, broken up by
the other person's semi-monologue. Matthew will be talking about his
business while Danny cuts in talking about his daughter's films for
instance, with no actual conversation taking place between them.
They're each talking about completely different things that holds no
relevance to what the other is saying. This is the underlying truth of
The Meyerowitz Stories; no-one listens. They're each in their own
little worlds with their own little stories that they want to tell but
no-one else wants to hear.There's also some interesting editing tricks used to show the bond
between the three siblings as it grows. Cuts often happen in
mid-sentence, cutting off the end and feeling like an abrupt close to a
scene that wasn't finished. I'm sure there are many interpretations as
to what this signifies, but I'm too tired to figure it out myself.
Maybe it has something to do with their uncertain futures? Maybe it
ties into the semi-monologues as they cut into and speak over one
another? Maybe it shows how we miss details, or lose interest in
things? Maybe it shows how fractured they are as a family, that
individually they're less complete than they are together? Either way,
this technique gets used less and less as the movie goes on; as the
familial bonds start to strengthen. Cuts start to be less intrusive,
and fade- outs start being introduced instead.Acting is pretty good across the board too, and really helped to ground
the film and make its characters relatable. While I wouldn't go so far
as to say the performances are as good as they get, they're certainly
impressive for the cast. Adam Sandler in particular. He has shown that
he can kill it in more serious roles. Maybe not to an awards standard,
but he can be very capable. Meyerowitz Stories is another example of
what he can do when he's not pissing about with shitty immature
comedies. Ben Stiller seems to have been doing less and less comedy
movies these days, and has transitioned into more serious indie movies
instead, so what he brings here is nothing particularly new for him,
but it's welcome nonetheless. Sandler and Stiller play off one another
really well, with both the dramatic moments and the more humorous
moments. Dustin Hoffman needs no explanation. His Harold is simply a
joy to watch. Grace Van Patten, Elizabeth Marvel, and Emma Thompson
round out the female cast members, and each match their male peers,
whether it's Van Patten's hammy acting in her semi-pornographic student
films, Marvel's awkward composure as she tells the story of sexual
harassment she suffered as a child, or Thompson's aloof step-mother who
seems to live on an entirely different plane of existence to everyone
else.The Meyerowitz Stories is an interesting little film. It's slow and not
a lot really happens, it lacks structure, and is driven by scatty
dialogue about the mundane, and yet it never really feels boring. The
characters are built well enough that you're drawn into their worlds,
and the points about dysfunctional families are very well- made, even
if you can't empathise fully. There's a number of lighter moments that
never usher more than a chuckle, but a chuckle is better than nothing.
As I said, I'm not really a fan of dramedies, and as such not the
biggest Baumbach fan either (although he does them best), so judging
this movie is hard for me, but I did enjoy it. I give it an
above-average 6/10, but I'm sure for those more into this quirky style
it should be considered higher rated.
