9
Keanu Brings a quiet believability to this action throwback

John Wick had been out awhile and at first I had little interest in
seeing it as, for me, Keanu Reeves is generally whatever the opposite
of a selling point is. However I kept hearing about how this was a bit
of a throw back of an action movie and upon reading the connection
between the director and Keanu, I thought I would have to put aside my
preconceived notions and give this movie a shot.The movie had two ex-stunt men (one of which was Keanu Reeves' former
stunt double) helming this film. This resulted in a lot of practical
effects instead of heavy reliance on green screen. Also familiarity
with Reeves likely left the directors with a base knowledge with how
far they could push the star. This left the film's action scenes clean,
realistic, to the point, and a hell of a lot of fun to watch.If I was going to break down the film's format, well it is of the
"semi-generic Punisher type, ex bad ass comes out of retirement to take
on other bad asses" type variety. It was 75% Japanese yakuza film, 20%
Film Noir, and 5% video game. One stylistic element that jumped out at
me right away was the choice to go with a narrow scope of field for
focus. At first I thought maybe this was the projector in the theater
but then I realized it was a choice made for the film. Normally this
would annoy me slightly, and I suppose still did, as I am a big fan of
depth of field, mise–en–scènes set ups (Citizen Kane is one of my
favorite films). I came to terms with the stylistic choice made for
this film as it reminded me so much of Eastern influences, in this case
it was reminiscent of Zen ink and brush compositions, where the
sharpness lies in where the brush first touches down and the edges
disappear into an almost mist like effect.While Keanu sold the action pieces well, he wasn't asked to do too much
to stretch his stoic emotional range, which is just what the film
required. He was pretty much perfect for this part if I had been for
some reason been asked to recast this film, I would be hard pressed to
find a better fit. This would have been right up Jason Statham's alley,
however there is nothing more he could have added to it. There was
something quietly instance about Reeves that made you feel that he was
one not to be trifled with. Statham will always remind me of the
character he played in Snatch, which was not at all overly menacing or
intimidating. Rather, if I had my choice of an alternative, I would
delve further into the Japanese gangster genre and extract Chow
Yun-fat. Reeves was 49 in this film and still convincing as an ass
kicker. Chow Yun-fat would have been ten years older, but that would
have further added to the realism of a retired hit man that is
unwillingly dragged back into the 'business'.Speaking of performances, this film was full of great character actors
from the action genre and otherwise. One of these performances that I
was not overly fond of was that of Alfie Allen. You probably know him
as the dickless Theon Greyjoy. He worked in the part in that he was
highly unlikable, however I was not sure which accent he was trying to
commit to. This brings me to another flaw of the film. Many of the
baddies simply did not measure up to be worthy of the John Wick
challenge. A spoiled brat son of a crime boss nor the crime boss
himself, an old man that the film gave no hint as to any physical
prowess until the anticlimactic final battle gave any feeling that the
fight would go any other direction except to a single minded John Wick
killing stroke.I highly recommend this film if you are a fan of good action. This
easily ranks as one of the pure action movies of 2014. Judged as just a
movie, it is simple in story structure, but what it does it does very
well.Blarv Score out of 10: 8.8
