7
Taking a Chance on a Dream

When I read that "One Chance" was going to be the life story of
"Britain's Got Talent" winner Paul Potts. I knew I wanted to see it for
sheer pop culture curiosity, but I was not sure it was going to be any
good. This is especially since I had heard nothing about this film
until I saw that it was going to be shown in movie theaters this week.We follow the life of Paul, a bullied overweight loner since childhood
whose only dream in life was to sing opera. But growing up in suburban
Wales where the main industry was steel works, he did not get much
support, except from his loyal mother. In the course of this film, We see him meet a wonderful woman whom he
eventually marries. However, we also see him repeatedly fail in singing
and totally lose confidence about his abilities. Of course, we know
this story will culminate in his memorable audition on Britain's Got
Talent" in front of Simon Cowell and company.Honestly I was expecting this film to be mundane predictable biopic
following the unexpected rise of a loser to becoming a winner and star.
However, surprise, surprise. This turned out to be one very delightful
and entertaining inspirational film which would appeal to most
audiences, not only Paul Potts fans.I have not really known of either of the lead actors before watching
this film, but the film's success was because of their charisma. James
Corden got the child-like innocence and charming dorkishness of Paul
down pat. We can't help but identify with his struggles, groan at his
bad decisions and root for him to go for his dream. I am now a fan of
Alexandra Roach who gave an utterly amazing heart-tugging performance
of Paul's wife Julz. Her hypnotizing eyes radiates goodness and
kindness. The two of them have such rich and believable chemistry
between them. Julie Walters is such a chameleon in her roles. As Paul's ever-
supporting mother Yvonne, she is so natural and effortless in her
remarkable performance. Colm Meaney is just right to play Paul's gruff
and skeptical father. Mackenzie Crook plays Paul's offbeat boss. While
he is too batty to be a real person, he provides the comic relief to
lighten up the mood.The first thirty minutes were positively glorious. My smile would not
leave my face as the unfolding story made me feel very happy. The
script was so witty and funny even as there were not so good things
happening. The energy tended to bog in the middle third with the series
of misfortunes which befell Paul. But that was necessary in order to
make the triumphant third act more exciting and moving, even if we
already knew how it would all end.
