10
Real

We saw an Advanced Screening of American Sniper last week, and it was
awesome. This movie was directed by Clint Eastwood and you can see his
hand in it. It's not flashy, and it tells the story without adding to
it like Hollywood tends to do with all war movies, especially ones
about the recent wars our men have served in. You feel like you know at
least a portion of what a sniper and his Seal team went through while
serving in the Iraq War. But, most importantly, it also tells the story
of an Extraordinary Man, a true American Hero, who devoted much of his
life to his country, taking multiple tours to keep "his men" safe, and
to protect his country. What an extraordinary movie. I can't say enough
about it. Everyone should see this movie. See what this man did for our
country. I would also recommend staying through the credits. All the
film shown during the ending credits is from actual newsreels. An
excellent movie. I wholly recommend it.Unlike other Hollywood takes on our soldiers, and the war in Iraq, this
movie just tells the story. No fluff, no hidden agendas, it just tells
the story of who this man was and how much he did for our country. You
can tell this movie was based off a book by someone who actually had
fought and lived this life. It's very real, and thankfully the book
wasn't ruined, like so many are, by embellishments. It doesn't have the flashy coolness that studios tend to do when
portraying our Navy Seals.It's cool to see that, but then you almost
feel like what you are seeing is not real, inaccurate, just a Hollywood
version of what our Seals do. Then the other extreme is the hidden
anti-war agenda that is always being pushed. This movie just tells the
story and after seeing it you feel like you know what it was like to be
a Seal in Iraq. What clearing door to door for insurgents is like and
what snipers do for not only their units, but for our country as well.
How important they are in our fight against those who hate freedom.
This story also shows what sacrifices spouses make in order for their
men to be away fighting for their country. It also to me shows the best
example of the hyper awareness that occurs and can't help bought be
brought home when you have to be on guard constantly when deployed in a
hot zone.I honestly went into this movie thinking there was no way Bradley
Cooper could portray Chris Kyle, but was totally wrong in my
assumptions. He didn't just portray this larger than life hero, he
becomes him. Truly amazing piece of work.
