1
Time you won't get back

You ever had that feeling where you cannot wait for something to end
and feel like tearing your own eyes out? if not then I highly recommend
this hour and a half orgy of neon lights, dub step, drugs, boobs and
James Franco being gangsta. My expectations going into this was fairly high reading some reviews
and watching the trailer. The idea of college students looking for the
thrill of spring break and a chance to go wild and party with an added
twist of falling in with a drug dealer/white rapper. * BELOW THERE MAY BE SPOILERS!! IF YOU WANT TO SEE THIS FILM DO NOT
READ!!!*I was VERY!! unprepared for the hour and a half of strung out
nothingness I endured. The first half hour sets up the story of four
college girls bored in their small town who want adventure and to live
the spring break life (3 sluttier 1 good girl) who go to extremes in
order to gain money to make it to their goal through armed robbery of a
small diner which apparently has quite a lot of money in the till and
the 3 wallets they get away with. Long story short the girls get to
spring break cue long sequences of heavy drinking and drug use with
half naked girls.The girls get arrested and bailed out by the whitest gangsta (James
Franco) Alien who talks and talks to the girls about his thug life blah
blah blah more long scenes where the lines are repeated and the scenes
jump back and fourth.Big surprise the 'good girl' freaks out and goes home... bye bye
leaving her three best friends with the very reliable and definitely
not creepy Alien who takes the girls under his wing and back to his
armory of a home where he explains how much he has.. guns, knives,
Calvin Klein... the usual.The highlight if I can call it that is when for some reason Franco
decides to serenade the girls on his piano to the sound of Britney
spears... cue montage of violence you thought would be a bigger part of
the film but really wasn't.. this was obviously enough for some movie
goers as they promptly got up and left the cinema, I really should have
followed.The final half hour of this film was even more repeating lines back and
forth scenes all leading up to a climactic shootout... well a slow
build up to two of the girls in glowing bikinis and pink unicorn
balaclavas shooting their way into kill a man in his own hot tub
(because he used to be Aliens friend but now they are rivals....
doesn't really matter). you would really think Alien would be there
shooting up the place to wouldn't you? well he would have been if he
didn't get shot in the head by the first guy they come across. All in all this film probably does have a message or may be seen as
some kind of arty piece but you are too bored to think or care.
