9
They're back, Pitches! And they're still awesome!!!

They're back, pitches! The Barden Bellas, the Treblemakers, even that
Cups song is back, if you're a huge fan of the first film, like I am,
then you're going to have a blast with PITCH PERFECT 2, because it's
just as fun, just as exciting, just as hilarious and those covered
songs and their renditions are just as catchy, you can't help but like
this movie. And I didn't know Oscar nominee Hailee Steinfeld could rock
a tune, but she'll definitely leave you impressed.I had my concerns at first, I thought that if the story would only be
about the Bellas entering a world tournament and nothing more to it,
then we would be in for a shallow unappealing sequel, but writer Kay
Cannon and first time feature director Elizabeth Banks put the Bellas
back in a place where they would have to relearn, regroup and find the
sound again. What makes these "Pitch Perfect" movies loved by millions
is that it's about this group of misfit girls working together as an
underdog team. In this case, the goliath, the drago, if you will, is a
German team called Das Sound Machine, they know their stuff, they seem
to be perfect in both their physique and their choreography, and
they're intimidating.The sequel does its best to explore some of the key characters a bit
further this time around. It explores the somewhat awkward romances
between Bumper and Fat Amy, and between Benji and Hailee Steinfeld's
character, Emily. And the Bellas have to also come to terms with the
harsh reality that they're now seniors, it's time to not be afraid to
move on and give the baton to the next generation. Which is why I can
see how this franchise could go on forever, and I don't think you and I
would mind at all if Universal Pictures made PITCH PERFECT 23, for
example. Even the Bellas' fearless leader, Beca (Anna Kendrick) is
distracted because she's trying to balance her commitment to her team
and her new intern gig and her dream of becoming a music producer.I gotta give mad respect to Elizabeth Banks for taking this on as her
first feature directorial debut. She produced and championed the first
"Pitch Perfect", she's one of the folks who fought to make the first
film happen. And now, with this she's proved herself to be as talented
a leader as she is an actress. PITCH PERFECT 2 really makes me look
forward to many more great movies made by director Elizabeth Banks. And
if you've come to theaters hoping to once again be laughing your ass
off at whatever Rebel Wilson's Fat Amy does, o, you are in for a treat,
my friend. One of the funniest women alive will not disappoint you. The
things she says, she even gets to sing solo in this one, Rebel's got
tricks up her sleeves, you will crack up, I guarantee it.One of the many things that I like about this movie is its theme of
mentorship. It's a scary thought to turn the page and enter the next
chapter of your life. The pressure is heavy. Whether it be being a
freshman at the same college that your parent went to or finding
yourself having to do a job you don't like just to get to that one job
you really want. Sometimes we think we can handle everything on our own
but fact of the matter is, we will have to ask someone for advice and
then we'll have to turn that advice into action, finding the right
mentor is important and being a mentor to someone is equally important.
So I'm glad that PITCH PERFECT 2 is not just about throwing the Bellas
in a world competition, although it is fun to see a cappella groups
from other countries, and see their different ethnic costumes and the
songs they cover as well. But that world competition in Copenhagen is
just a small part of this film. I think you're going to like the big
chunk of it, and just like how you've watched the first "Pitch Perfect"
film a thousand times over, I know I have, you're going to do the same
to PITCH PERFECT 2 Read more at Ramascreen.Com
