7
Worth seeking out

Watching The Handmaiden is an interesting, evocative experience similar
to the director's other work, even though it does not reach the heights
of Oldboy (2003), it is highly entertaining. The story is really
captivating, leading you on until it is ready to reveal what is
actually underneath the film's skirt. As with most films that are
separated into parts, there is a slightly weaker one in the middle, as
the movie slows down and back tracks for you to catch up. However,
overall this was a really interesting script that suited the new
setting (Korea under Japanese colonial rule) well.Similar with Park Chan-Wook's other films that I have seen, Oldboy
(2003) and Stoker (2013), this is a gorgeous movie. Beautifully shot
sets that look incredible, and the estate on which most of the film
takes place is an incredible location. The beautiful costumes
replicating the early 20th century time period make this film quite
visually stunning. The performances by the three main stars Kim Min-
hee, Ha Jung-woo and Kim Tae-ri were all exceptional. One of the film's strengths is its ability to seamlessly incorporate
comedic elements into what could have been quite a serious movie. In a
movie that involves themes such as suicide and fraud, it is hard to
believe how many times it made the audience laugh out loud. Although
the tone does get darker at times, the lighter moments make it just a
really fun movie as well. Although the music wasn't as amazing as the
song used in the international trailer, it does serve its purpose
effectively. There are also minor details like the use of color in the
subtitles to distinguish between Korean and Japanese which I really
appreciated. The film also involves a high level of debauchery that leads to it
being very sexually graphic in many parts of the film. Although the
director has done similar things in the past, I felt like in those
earlier films it served more of a purpose whereas in this film, while
there are some moments that do develop characters and the story, there
is an abundance of gratuitous sex scenes that elongate the movie a
little too much. I found The Handmaiden to be a really enjoyable film that didn't
disappoint my expectations of the director. It was a really intriguing
story that is complimented by the great craftsmanship of all those
involved. The film does show some unjustified sex scenes that may be
off putting to some viewers but some may also enjoy it.
