8
An action/thriller filled with espionage, intrigue and plenty of action

American Assassin is an action/thriller filled with espionage, intrigue
and plenty of action. Dylan O'Brien (The Maze Runner and MTV's Teen
Wolf) plays C.I.A. trainee Mitch Rapp. You'll be amazed at the
transformation of O'Brien as he buffs up to play the stone cold killer
in American Assassin. The movie is based on the best selling novels of
Vince Flynn and directed by Michael Cuesta, who also directs the TV
series Homeland. O'Brien's character, Mitch Rapp, becomes a lone wolf who is obsessed
with revenge after terrorists kill his girlfriend while they are on
vacation on a small island in the Mediterranean. He trains for a year
in MMA and with weapons. He is so ruthless that he is kicked out of
both his martial arts class and his weapons training class. His plans
are to pose as an American who is sympathetic to the cause of Isis so
he can get near enough to kill members of their terrorist cells.While he's making his plans he also being watched by the C.I.A. and
they extract him from his first mission in Libya and offer him a chance
to be a part of a super secret and elite black ops team. Sanaa Lathan
plays Irene Kennedy, a C.I.A. Deputy Director who is in charge of the
black ops team and Michael Keaton (who looks fantastic at age 66) is a
former Navy Seal who's in charge of training the team. As an ensemble
the actors make for a very entertaining movie. Keaton and his team travel all over the world to stop a terrorist plot
between Russia and Iran to build a nuclear weapon. On the mission the
team discovers a former black ops team member, only known as "Ghost",
who is now a mercenary and is brokering the deal between the two
countries. "Ghost", played by Taylor Kitsch (Friday Night Lights) is a
former protegee of Keaton who's now seeking revenge against his former
mentor and against The United States, a country who he feels betrayed
him.While the cast is strong, it's O'Brien who carries the movie. He's on
par with any former actor who's played James Bond except, unlike the
Bond characters, he doesn't play his part with any humor or sarcasm. He
plays it full out serious. He's a man obsessed with violence and
killing, which makes for a very bloody and intense movie. American Assassin is rated a very strong "R" for violence and it has a
run time of 1 hour and 51 minutes. It will keep you enthralled and on
the edge of your seat from start to finish. On my "Hollywood Popcorn
Scale" I rate American Assassin a JUMBO. Hollywood Hernandez
