1
Spiderbland

In one scene, right after a spider in the Oscorp Laboratories bites
Peter Parker: he falls asleep in a subway only to be awakened by a
random loser who (for some strange reason) places a beer bottle on
Parker's head. A drop of water from the bottle rolls down onto Peter's
face, causing him to fling to the top of the car and stick to the
ceiling – like a spider.Over a dozen people witness this spectacular feat... and what happens
next? A lady gets miffed because some of the beer spilled on her
clothes. That particular reaction sums up how amazing the entire film
is. After fully realizing his powers and using them to skateboard with
furious bravado outside his high school, Peter Parker (much too)
quickly dons the Spidey outfit that seems more like a surfer's wetsuit
than a real transformation.He seeks his uncle's murderer from the supposedly pivotal scene lacking
the tragic fate of the protagonist's mentor in Sam Raimi's version.
This doesn't perpetuate Parker into a vengeful vigilante misusing his
powers, but gives him reason to fly around wielding his skills that
actor Andrew Garfield never seems in any particular awe about. The
SOCIAL NETWORK star, resembling Anthony Perkins had he become a
melancholy hipster, doesn't give Peter Parker the underdog value Tobey
Maguire successfully conveyed – but that's the scripts fault. Parker's
not a nerd or even an outcast; having lost his parents for mysterious
reasons, he's simply not a happy camper.Other than the rushed changeling into the titular superhero, there's
hardly any character arc for the good guy or the villain. Osco's
resident genius Dr. Curt Conner's transforms into The Lizard so quick,
running amok New York City like a raptor on steroids, there's not much
reason, or worthy motivation, for his actions.But (all) this lack of purpose fits a movie that, when not wallowing in
romantic melodrama between Parker and girlfriend Gwen Stacey… whose dad
is a hard-nosed cop and a weak replacement for a much-needed human
antagonist like J. Jonah Jameson… doesn't live up to the original film
or the comic books that at least, for better or worse, had a good time.For More Reviews: www.cultfilmfreaks.com
