3
If it ain't broke...don't fix it!

Y'know how sometimes the remake of a film can, if not actually improve
upon the original - though, arguably, 'Scarface' does just that - take
a different approach to the story of characters which is equally
engaging, or sufficiently different to make the revamp justified...but
not SO different that all it has is a titular connection to the
original? Scorsese's morally skewed 'Cape Fear', for example.Well, 'The Magnificent Seven' ISN'T one of those films. Not blindingly
awful - Denzel is engaging as ever, and Chris Pratt plays Chris Pratt
like no-one else can - just...pointless. It suffers by clearly having
been designed by a committee. "Hmmm", some twelve-year-old studio exec has thought. "Westerns aren't
ethnically diverse...so lets have a black star...but never actually
register for more than a fleeting moment that he's a black man in
prejudice-ridden 1870s America. A Native American, too...but let's not
dwell on the irony that he's helping the townsfolk protect the land
they stole from HIS people. Oh, and there were a lot of Mexicans in the
original....but they're a political hot-potato, right now 'cos of
Trump...so ONE will do, even although he doesn't appear to have any
distinctive character traits, other than BEING a Mexican (a violent,
rapacious one, at that...The Donald would be SO happy!). Oh, and we're
clearly missing the Asian market...so how about an oriental
knife-flashing Ninja type. THAT's not a stereotype, at all!!'Now some of this would be excusable if half these characters had a
back-story. Ethan Hawke has a potentially interesting riff on Robert
Vaughan's jittery death-rattled mercenary, and Vincent D'Onofrio's
quirky Jack Horne hints at an intriguing tragic history, but neither is
particularly developed. hat said, they are still MORE fleshed out than
any other characters, save for Denzel Washington's Chisolm, onto whom a
wholly unnecessary revenge sub-plot is half-heartedly grafted.All of the original seven are, to some extent, either idealists or
characters in need of redemption. They are all Western archetypes - but
the reason archetypes WORK is that they are universal. THESE seven are
just...clichés.All you NEED to know about Yul Brynner's principled gun-for-hire,
Chris, in his bond with Steve McQueen's drifter, Vin Tanner, is
summed-up in the wonderful Riding Shotgun On A Hearse: willing to bring
Hell down on themselves and everyone else to bury a dead Indian,
scorned by the prejudiced 'civilized' townies. They do what's RIGHT,
according to morality rather than law or social convention. The link
between Washington and Pratt is a formulaic bar-room shoot-out. Dull. A
wasted opportunity - but typical of this cliché-ridden dross.Oddly, the plot of the original film is entirely dropped, in favour of
an artless re-hash of the key elements of 'High Plains Drifter' (break
out the red paint an' the dynamite, kids!), and although the bland
score hints at cues from Bernstein's gloriously rousing soundtrack,
they wait until the end credits before a rather limp arrangement of the
iconic theme kicks in. That's a BIG tune, boys and girls...and you didn't earn it.Crap. Watch the original, instead. More fun. More emotional connection.
Just...better
