9
With grit, style and substance, Creed goes the distance as an exceptional crowd pleaser.

History has a strange way of repeating itself. 40 years ago, Rocky
Balboa became a household name and turned an unwanted actor into one of
the greatest success stories in Hollywood. The fact that Rocky (1976)
won three Academy Awards including Best Picture is of little importance
compared to the real life struggle behind the making of that film. For
Sylvester Stallone, it was a rags to riches story that mirrored his
real life struggles to make a decent and honest living. Cut from the
same cloth maybe, but Creed is much more than just the seventh
installment in the Rocky film franchise. As a no- holds-barred sports
drama, this is every bit an exceptional crowd pleaser with a lot of
heart, plenty of amusing jabs to the ribs, and an unexpected but
emotional haymaker to the gut. And a lot more.Co-written by director Ryan Coogler, there's no doubt that Creed is a
passionate love letter to the first film, which in itself is a poetic
love story about fighting the good fight. Although boxing is the
central theme, and often frowned upon as a brutal blood-sport that
causes serious injuries, it's never been about the fight but more about
what you are fighting for. Coogler gets this spot-on when we are
introduced to teenager Adonis Johnson in juvenile detention. We soon
learn that Adonis is the illegitimate son of Apollo Creed, born shortly
after the latter's death in Rocky IV. Appolo's widow Mary Ann (Phylicia
Rashad) rescues young Adonis from what is certain to be a life on the
streets and raises him as her own in the plush Creed estate in Los
Angeles. Cut to present day and Adonis (Michael B. Jordan) is a
corporate executive half way up the ladder. It's a stark contrast to
Stallone's blue collar stiff in the first film, but this is where both
films converge. Like Rocky, Adonis (calling himself Donnie) knows he is
destined for something else, so heads to Philadelphia to meet his late
father's rival turned best friend.The meeting with Rocky is one of several great moments in the film
while also serving as a nostalgic homecoming occasion for every fan of
the franchise. It's a fascinating intersection of the past but none
better than the fact that in many ways, Creed is an inverted mirror
image of Rocky. And before sending this film off on its own pulsating
trajectory, Coogler reveals a full hand of spades. One of which is the
legacy Rocky bestows on Donnie, and in essence, Stallone handing over
the franchise baton to Jordan. We may not realize this at first and
that's because we are already smitten by the father-son relationship
developing between Donnie and Rocky. Their character study is the most
significant aspect of this film. Donnie has always been an orphan and
the reason why he never took on his father's name is an emotional
revelation. Who he is and why he wants to become a professional boxer
is his darkest secret.Both equally emotive and with comic interruptions, Jordan and Stallone
deliver impressive performances. Stallone in particular gives what has
to be his career best performance since Copland, and if this is his
franchise swan song (owing to a devastating but befitting plot device)
that's all the more reason why this film must be seen. But as they say,
the show must go on and Jordan is more than capable of shouldering
future films under the Creed banner. And with the inclusion of Philly
local Bianca (Tessa Thompson), Donnie's neighbor and love interest,
future sequels look to be set in Rocky's beloved hometown.Onto the production quality and it suffices to say that Creed has THE
best technical aspects in the franchise, including spectacular fight
choreography, astounding cinematography in the ring and around
Philadelphia, and an upbeat hip-hop soundtrack fused with the original
score from previous films. The only real letdown comes from Donnie's
main opponent (Real life professional boxer Tony Bellew) who isn't as
antagonistic as you would expect, given the villainous ferocity from
Clubber Lang (Rocky III) and the evil Ivan Drago (Rocky IV). But that's
a minor blemish to an overall outstanding film made with grit,
substance and style. At its best, Creed is a very intimate film for
fans and newcomers and an undisputed knockout for 2015.
