7
Chilling Stuff

The director of this movie is a Frenchwoman. Of course, in French,
"mother" and "ocean" are homonyms. Maybe it's just because I am celibate these days, but unlike some of
the other reviewers, I saw a lot more morbidity here than I did desire. One of the other reviewers praises Robin Wright's performance as a
"strong woman". What? These women aren't strong...they are as craven
and callow. They cede to the ultimate taboo: mother-son incest. Sure,
they didn't quite officially cross that line...but they might as well
have. The reason incest (by hook or by crook) is taboo has nothing to
do with inbreeding...it is because it leads to subjective ruin. Nothing
has quite the same devastating effect on one's subjectivity as a
blurring of this one particular line. I thought that the film was a
success here: what happens to these four characters is catastrophic.
Two stunted, brainless male children...two decadent aging women who
continue to giggle like preteen girls when they are together. Try to
imagine these monsters in twenty years. Notice that no one is
interested in anything...yes, we see cursory hints that they are
interested in something besides fusion with each others' bodies (the
art gallery, the yacht business, the theater stuff) but all of it is
strictly external to the characters. They never use language with each
other for any reason other than to seduce each other. This loss of the
liberating force that is Logos is the consequence of incest. If you
cross this line, you are ruined for the outside world...all that's left
is your little floating island in the ocean. These two women with their
endless glasses of wine, their silly giggling, their vanity, their
narcissism...are nothing less than evil. Their sons are not likable
either, and even though they are both portrayed as instigators in the
narrow sense of the word, they are by definition victims. The failure
of their respective attempts to break away from the womb can be laid at
the feet of these two women who refuse to sacrifice anything for their
precious pleasure. I am thinking of the scene where Ian spills the
beans and sends the wives and babies running for the hills. When Ian
claims, rightfully, that he was just telling the truth, Roz reproaches
him with some chilling sophistry about "hurting people" or whatever.
The director does a good job here of illustrating, without needing to
belabor the point, how incest and Logos/subjectivity are incompatible,
and how even if you do your best to tell the truth, the situation is in
itself so dishonest as to be irredeemable through acknowledgment of any
sort. I took a couple of stars off because the pacing is a little slow. The
actors are all good. The audience laughed when the two wives found out
what was going on...I doubt that was the director's intention.
