7
Harcore Action, Fun, Enjoyment And Entertainment

OK let's get straight to the heart of the matter. With Hardcore Henry
you will neither get an in-depth story full of twists and turns nor
will you get a very original story either. I mean let's face it....how
many previous films already have the "madman wanting to create a legion
of killer cyborgs and hero needs to stop him" tag?Rhetorical question of course because we all know that dozens is the
answer.However - how many of them have as much non-stop relentless action, as
much violence, as much tongue-in-cheek humour, and as many amazing
visuals/fight sequences/stunt work/choreography as Hardcore Henry? Not
many should be your answer there. Also, how many of them have been
filmed completely from a person's first point-of-view? That's right.
Hardcore Henry was filmed ENTIRELY from POV. Now, we've seen this
countless Horror films like that, but in this genre? Not so much. At
first you would probably think that it would be just a shaky mess with
the POV from the amount of fast-paced action in the film but not so.
You see plenty of what is going on even when the fight sequences become
very full on, which is just as well really because it IS very full on
and in-your-face within the first couple of minutes of the film
starting.The filming of Hardcore Henry is extremely impressive and the way the
makers have edited everything together to make a seamless movie is even
more so, and not just with the fight scenes but the impressive visual
effects as well (the 'song/dance routine by various characters played
by Copley being just one).Speaking of which, Copley puts in amazing performances playing various
characters throughout the film, from an English punk rocker to a WWI
type of English General. With the performances this man puts in to his
films it really should only be a matter of time before he picks up a
major Award.Hardcore Henry is an excellent - and very original - movie and is
thoroughly enjoyable from start to finish.
