8
A different kind of animated movie and approach. I really liked it!

This was a rather surprising movie. It's unlike any other modern 

animated movie and picks a new sort of approach, that should work 

entertaining for both adults and kids.



There is plenty of 'simple' stuff to enjoy for young kids in this movie 

but also the adults shall have no complaints about it. Throughout the 

years animated movies often had both stuff for both kids and adults to 

enjoy in this movie but I feel that the line dividing the two different 

forms of entertainment is getting more and more blurry. Instead the two 

things more often get effectively combined, with as a result more and 

more movies get released that aren't being too childish for adults or 

too mature for little kids. It's being perfect entertainment for just 

about everybody!



I do admit though that I was a bit surprised to see how horror 

orientated this movie was. Make no mistake about it, this is a horror 

movie. It might be a bit frightening for some children but obviously 

most shall be perfectly capable of handling it. Fantasy and movies can 

be a great outlet and also stimulant for children's imagination, this 

also includes horror orientated stuff. After all, most kids are of 

course perfectly capable of making a distinction between real stuff and 

fantasy.



And I do applaud this movie for not being overly fluffy or careful and 

protective toward children. Not that that this is being a completely 

dark, or scary, depressing movie to watch but overall it's being a tad 

bit more dark and daring than just an average animated movie.



It's really having a style and approach of its own, which just doesn't 

goes for its story or the fact that this is being a more genuine horror 

flick but also really for its comedy and characters. The characters all 

feel rich and very much alive (yes, even the dead characters!) and the 

humor is more clever and often dialog orientated, as opposed to having 

characters jumping around and falling and bumping into stuff. In that 

regard this movie also feels far more mature than just the average 

genre attempt.



And another important aspect about an animated movie; it's a really 

good looking one! It's using stop-motion techniques and it shows that 

this genre is far from outdated or dead. It's really something that 

gives the movie an unique look and feel. I don't know, it's perhaps 

pleasant that it's being something that allows the movie to feel 'fake' 

and true exaggerated fantasy-like, as opposed to CG animated movies, 

that are getting more and more smooth and realistic to watch.



It's also a movie with a great underlying message in it, that tells you 

it's OK to be different and there is nothing weird or wrong about it 

and you shouldn't just judge a book on its cover. It's still too bad 

this message was lost on some people and I'm talking about those who 

had a problem with its ending. It was perfectly suitable and fitted 

perfectly into what this entire movie was trying to tell you for the 

first hour and a half.



A surprisingly good movie in about every regard, that above all things 

is being perfectly fun and entertaining to watch!



8/10




