3
The movie insults our intelligence

One of the crappiest war movies I've ever seen, if not the worst!Firstly: No story, no real plot. War is almost over, maybe in 2-3 weeks
and there are just 5 guys driving around in tank and fighting still
resisting Germans. And than suddenly everything depends on them. Namely
unit with cooks is left defenseless and if they got beaten whole
division would be lost. OMG!!! And we all know what could happen then.
The war would be lost! Luckily for mankind there is this Sherman tank
equipped with Brad Pitt eager to do whatever it takes to hold the
Germans and save the cooks.Well, to this point it wasn't so bad. Battles were OK displayed. It was
interesting to see from tank's crew point of view how it looks to
fight. But then, we have most ridiculous and naive war scene since
"Rambo 3".They got stuck on some crossroad in the middle of nowhere. Tank can't
move and 300 SS troops are approaching towards them. Typical cliché
scene where everybody (normal) wants to abandon tank and retreat, but
no, Brad just won't do this, even if he must fight alone by himself.
Naturally the rest then decide to stay(and to die like idiots).When battle starts, man just starts wondering how Germany managed to
beat anyone and occupy anything with so dumb soldiers. And this is SS
company, not some regular soldiers. Even they are so retarded, so they
are attacking tank only from the front side practically running to the
bullets. Sure they have bazookas, but why using then?!? Let just shoot
the tank with machine gun. Then one blind SS soldier with IQ over 80
came to side of the tank with bazooka to try to hit it from 2 meters
distance.... AND MISSED IT!!! OMG, if they are not stupid, they are
totally blind.Epilogue: Long story short. Brad Pitt & Co. resisted until they are out
of ammo. Brad got shot by sniper 3 or 4 times in chest, but it is just
not enough for him to die. He still has time to chat with Norman then
to kill one more German, more chatting... Ordinary men would die
instantly, but this is Brad Pitt for God sake. Anyway acting was pretty good (3 stars are for this), but script was so
awful. Cliché scenes, cliché characters. I'm truly sorry, cause this
could be descent war movie.
