8
PK Makes The Important Points In Right Manner

'PK' is latest offering from blockbuster duo of Aamir Khan and Rahkumar
Hirani. They deliver first 200 cr film '3 Idiots' and this time
expectations are for 300 cr. Let's see whether they manage to achieve
that. Film has rather interetsing plot. Alien PK (Aamir Khan) lands in
Rajasthan and he lost his connection with spaceship and so he tries to
survive on earth on his own. But his mannerism and thirst for knowledge
of this new planet result in questioning of basic premises of
religions. Though this sounds similar to 'Oh My God!' but that was more
entertaining and here the treatment is more serious. In middle of this
journey he meets good friend Bhairao Singh (Sanjay Dutt), Jaggu
(Anushka Sharma). Jaggu is a student from Belgium but her role is half
baked though that looks deliberate. In the end how PK manages touch
upon some relevant issues and leaves a mark form the climax of the
film. Performance wise Aamir Khan is simply outstanding and his methodical
acting in every frame is commendable. He never goes out of character
and his emotional impact is superb in climax. Anushka Sharma again gets
'Jab Tak Hai Jaan' kind of character which is catalyst but not a
typical actress role. She manages to make a mark despite half baked
role and presence of Aamir. Sushant Singh Rajput looks like a star and
even in brief role he is too good. Boman Irani and Saurabh Shukla get
very little to do and Sanjay Dutt is decent.Film has some real boring songs and all songs work as welcome break in
the film. Editing is uneven and cinematography is decent. Background
score is good. Story and screenplay are so tight that they manage to
hold the film together throughout despite flaws. Dialogues are strictly
average and at times Bhojpuri dialect looks out of the place. Art
department and costume department are below par. Director Rajkumar Hirani again makes an entertaining social film where
he raises few important points in right manner but this time impact is
no where clsoe to his best work 'Lage Raho Munnabhai'. Film tries hard
but then that should not be visible. Because it is releasing after 'Oh
My God', the novelty goes away to some extent. Film will release today and will get 4000 screens which will be apt for
such film. Film will do roaring business in multiplexes for sure but
will single screen audience embrace this content remains the question.
Still a big hit is on the card for sure but how big is the million
dollar question!Go for this one for right medley of entertainment and message!Pluses: Aamir Khan excels once again with his methodical approach,
Aushka Sharma looks fresh, Sushant Singh Rajput is scene stealer,
Sanjay Dutt is average, Saurabh Shukla and Boman Irani remain
underutilized, excellent screenplay Minuses: below par dialogues, boring music, uneven editing especially
in 2nd halfVerdict: Watch it for perfect script and stellar performances
