9
A Worthwhile Adaptation

Edgar Rice Burroughs' "A Princess of Mars" just about created the last
50 years of Hollywood blockbusters. Star Wars is SO ripped off of that
book... and, of course, practically everything else is ripped off of
Star Wars. So it's great that someone finally tackled the one and only
original.And it's quite a good adaptation. I enjoyed seeing Burroughs' creations
brought to life, and I enjoyed "John Carter" as a movie in its own
right. It's not a great film... but it's just the sort of escapist
adventure that Burroughs himself specialized in.The same sort, but not the same one. The movie takes liberties with the
original material... and rightly so. ERB's original story would be
creaky by today's standards, so there's no use being too faithful. But
some of the departures are needless and poorly chosen.1. The first compromise is the title. "A Princess of Mars" is a great
title. It tells you pretty much exactly what to expect: romance,
adventure and a strange new world. "John Carter" is a lame title. It
could refer to just about anything, from a hard-boiled detective story
to a teen romance. It may seem like a small thing, but the title really
did color audiences' reactions to the film. Yes, the original title
would have seemed strange in today's culture, but that would have
worked in its favor. The change of title was a weak decision, made by a
committee.2. Another compromise is the way the film starts. The whole
introductory segment with the airborne battle on Mars is not only
pointless, it drastically weakens the story. "John Carter" is a tale of
one man, who suddenly finds himself in an unimaginably strange
environment. We should have discovered that environment as Carter does,
and not had a sneak-peek ahead of time. This weakens our sense of
identification with Burroughs' interplanetary Odysseus, and shifts the
emphasis to the story, which was never ERB's strong suit. This was
another decision made by a gutless committee. Someone in a meeting
said: the intro is too slow, we'll lose the audience. They were dead
wrong. To make great movies you have to take chances, build at the pace
dictated by the material, and trust your audience to come along.3. The final, and most significant, compromise lay in attempting to
modernize the story. I recently re-read the first several Mars books,
for the first time in decades. They're surprisingly intimate, low-key
affairs. There's a background of great events, but the real story takes
place on a very human scale. There are conversations, confrontations.
Meetings in darkened rooms. The action is there, but it's far from
'non-stop.'What's more, one of the real charms of ERB's Barsoom is that it
represents the future as seen through the naive eyes of 1912. It really
makes sense only when seen in that historical context. And it then
acquires an extra nostalgic dimension, giving us an insight into the
mind and imagination of that far-gone era. Modernizing the story
homogenizes it, and makes it seem like a me-too creation. Going for
more of a retro, steampunk look would have emphasized that this is THE
granddaddy of all interplanetary adventures. (A more explanatory
marketing campaign would have helped too. Epic FAIL, Disney.)Going for more of an old-fashioned feel would also have allowed the
film to preserve some of ERB's marvelous literary quality. His plots
may have been pure melodrama, but his language was amazingly poetic.
Re-reading the Mars books, I found myself frequently pausing to marvel
at a particular sentence, or a single phrase: words so perfectly chosen
that they simply could not be improved upon. Some of that should have
made it's way into the dialog of "John Carter." There's a marvelous
exchange between Errol Flynn and an English judge at the beginning of
the movie "Captain Blood." It sets up the sense of romance for the rest
of the film. I'd have liked the air battle of "John Carter" to have
been replaced with something like that.Fortunately, the film does capture many other elements of ERB's vision.
The green Tharks, for one. They simply could not be better... they're
absolutely true to the weird descriptions in the books, yet manage to
rise above their CG limitations and live as characters.I also adored the choice of Lynn Collins to play Dejah Thoris. (Though,
of course, she should have been wearing full red-skin makeup.) She's
not exactly a powerhouse in the acting department, but she's got the
perfect look; she's exactly the Princess of Mars that I wanted to see.
I'd have loved to see her grow into the part through a long course of
sequels...All in all, despite its limitations, "John Carter" is a fine adventure
film, that does manage to convey at least some of the magic of Edgar
Rice Burroughs' writing. It does require a stronger-than-usual
suspension of disbelief, but I'd recommend it highly to fans of classic
swashbucklers.
