8
Great Movie, but it could been better.

Warning: This Review contains spoilers those of you who want to watch
this movie should not look on this review. Animation: The animation was amazing. It looks a lot more smoother than
the show. They fixed the animation that was in the trailer. But, there
two problems the 3D animation and CGI. The story: The story was good for the most part. It focus on action and
adventure more than comedy and drama. This movie feel like an
adventure. The humor was fine, it probably not the main focus. However,
The humor could been better. One problem about the story the pacing. I
feel like this pacing was going too fast. The songs move the plot
really quickly that it make the story slightly less interesting and
weaker as the result, The plot was predictable. It could been better
story if they could add more part of the story. One thing that could
make the story better and character more memorable: their backstory.
They could make Capper's, Bird Pirates, Storm Kind and Hippogriff's.
The reason why Tempest was more memorable and likable, her backstory.
That one part they waste some potential. They need to put the story in
the comic book and move them to the movie itself. So that way it should
make story much better. Spoiler AlertThe reason why it rated PG because Tempest been attacked by a monster
which as the result losing the horn. Twilight and pinkie having a big
argument after their plan failed. One character die from falling.Character: The most characters are great I did find all character are
likable. I wish they could bring Shining Armor, Discord, and other
character from the show on the movie, but unfortunately they did not
make appearance in this movie which was disappoint to those who are fan
of those characters. King storm could been better. Although he was a
good villain, he doesn't appear much in the movie. Tempest was by far
the best character in the movie. She not just the best villain in the
entire movie, she also become my favorite character and the best
villain in the entire series. Her motivation are great as she try to
get her horn fix, She has really good backstory, and She did deserved
redemption more than Starlight.In the end, Tempest give Twilight and her friend the real name: Spoiler
Alert Fizzlepop Berrytwist. 2 questions: Did some pony called tempest
or herself? Where and how she get her real name?Song: The songs are great. I did find 4 or 5 out of 6 songs are amazing
those songs are We got this, Time to be Awesome, One small thing, Open
up the eyes, and rainbow. the one called "I'm your friend you need" was
good song it not as good as the other songs in this movie. I also find
2 songs Tempest song and Sia song was by far the best song in my
opinion. Voice actor: The voice actor did really good job. They did same voice
actor for Mane 6 from the show. I like Capper voice because I like the
way talk like a gentleman. Also the rest of these characters voices
really fit throughout the entire movie especially Tempest.Overall: This movie was great. It have so much potential to be one of
the animation movie in 2017, but without any risk, unable to make a
biggest hit on box office. However, in my opinion, I think it's one of
the best movie based on TV show. (not number 1) They may not make to
Oscar nomination, but it still possible to make the nomination. As a
Fans they will love this movie while the non-fan they may either love
it or hate it, but mostly disappointed. I agreed to those critics say
it was average, but I disagree to those critics as they think was
terrible like (IGN and Hollywood report) which those two reviews was
inconsistent and bad-written and they think that emoji movie is better
than my little pony. they're wrong and lying to you because this review
prove that they never watch the show and/or movie. The evidences was
not good enough to make MLP the worst movie because of those points
makes no sense and dumb reasons why its bad, and the final score didn't
deserved that low. MLP has more positive and more moment whatever is
best/worst than Emoji movie. Those reviews was like written by the
Kindergarten or Anti-Brony. This also proved that it may be put on the
spot for the movie that critics got it wrong. This movie will be one of
these movie. Don't let critic stop you from enjoy the movie, Ignore
them and go watch the movie. I wish they could make a sequel in order to improve from the first
movie. However, because of box office doesn't make a big hit despite
not being bombed, it may less chance to make the sequel. If they going
to make sequel, they need to make sure that the pace are just right and
have a better story in order to not only attract fans, but also non-fan
and impress Critics. which it was a big challenge. The few things I
agree with critics was pacing, predictable story, underdeveloped
character, frame rate, out of character like Twilight, and 3D animation
and CGI. couple of things I disagree with are songs was not somewhat
memorable and 2D animation. If they do get the pace right, it could be
one of the best kids movie of all time. I am the fan of this show. I do
believe that DVD will be much bigger hit than on theater. If you're a
fan of this show, Go buy a DVD.
