7
Decent slice of American sports history, well-captured

Putting all judgments aside about what kind of statements this film
might make about sexism and homophobia in the present day, this
cinematic portrayal of the famous 1973 tennis match between Billie Jean
King and Bobby Riggs is quite entertaining and well-acted. For those of
us who weren't born yet, this light and diverting film provides a nice
overview of the spark that Billie Jean King gave to women's equality in
the 1970s and how she became a true pioneer in that regard. By
contrast, the film tentatively touches upon the issue of homophobia,
but it's better to have a true portrayal of the era rather than
something anachronistic and too contemporary.Emma Stone plays against type here, giving a solid performance as the
awkward but quietly competitive King. She fully embodies King's
principled drive and down to earth charm. Her deep angst about finally
embracing her sexual orientation and her determination to successfully
advance gender equality in the sport of tennis provides a source of
character conflict that, again, was true to that era.But the film's trump card is Steve Carell who gives his most likable
performance ever as the goofy and cocky Riggs who had no problem
becoming the standard-bearer of male chauvinism in a game whose culture
and pay structure strongly favored men. We come to see Riggs as
considerably less off-putting than the ideology he humorously defended.
The real villain in this story is not Riggs, but Jack Kramer, (a smug
Bill Pullman) the head of the Association of Tennis Professionals,
whose unapologetic institutional sexism pervaded the sport at the time.
We come to learn that Kramer's genuine disdain for women's equality is
the motivating factor that helps light a fire under King in her match
against Riggs.My only criticism would be that the match itself could have been a bit
more gripping. It's filmed in a way that, although true to the game,
feels detached and distant. Perhaps the filmmakers wanted to make it
look as real as possible, but for a cinematic climax, it lacks tension,
even if it's gratifying watching King put Riggs away with one power
stroke after another. Recommended as light, quality filmmaking.
