4
An action movie filled with boredom

I enjoyed the first two movies for what they were. They were fun rides
with old actors kicking ass and making jokes about how old they are.The third installation of the series has both of those things, but,
sadly, not enough. The whole reason these movies exist is for us to
enjoy the nostalgia exploding through the screen while we listen to
crappy one-liners and bad jokes. This movie takes itself way too
seriously and, even though it tries, it just isn't self aware enough
for it to work. It spends a big portion of the plot introducing a bunch
of young characters pretty much no one cares about, and then it tries
to make us care about those people we've never seen in our lives
before. Needless to say, it does not succeed. All of a sudden we're
suppose to give a damn about these one dimensional characters, and I'm
not saying that the main cast has more dimensions than one, but we
don't need dimension. We don't need backstory. We don't need emotion.We need to see old people doing over the top action, make old man jokes
and reference their old movies. The movie just takes itself too
seriously. There are jokes, but there are also dramatic moments which
just fall flat. The acting isn't that good either, and neither are the
new characters. It was cool to see Snipes back in action but his
character was pretty much useless and didn't make any sense plot wise.
Banderas was suppose to be annoying for the characters in the movie and
funny for the audience, but he was just annoying. Gibson's role was
pretty fun, even though he kind of just played the Joker. There's a
scene taken straight from The Dark Knight, but I didn't really mind it,
it was fun. Ford was just really plain and did nothing for the movie.Overall it's one of the most boring action movies I've seen. It has
literally every single action movie cliché ever made, and the
performances were average at best. There are also moments where the CGI
is terrible and takes you away from the movie even more. I don't
recommend it unless you are a big fan ( a really really big fan).
