8
More Minion Madness? Yes, please!

"Despicable Me 2" is the highly anticipated sequel to the lovable
"Despicable Me". It was fairly unique as instead of the typical good
guy as the main character, they put up a villain as the protagonist
(although he ended up good) which made it more refreshing and more fun
to watch. Aside from his pointy nose and hilarious accent, we were also
invited to spend some time with the extremely adorable and mischievous
yellow Minions, who speak almost entirely incomprehensibly in their own
unique language. There were also the three little girls that have the
movie heart (Margo, Edith, and Agnes). This time around, Gru's no longer a villain. He's devoting his life to
being a father and raising his three adorable little kids. (He dressed
up as a fairy for Agnes's 6th birthday.) He's also managing his
business of manufacturing jellies. But when there's a villain who just
stole a secret formula (named PX-41) that could threaten the entire
civilization, Gru is recruited by the Anti-Villain League, headed by
Silas Ramsbottom ("bottom" read in a Minion's voice), to stop this new
villain. His partner is an orange-haired funny woman named Lucy Wilde. Gru is facing with different kinds of experiences now. He's raising his
three girls and has become a father. He's managing his jelly business.
But he's also for the first time in love, which is haunting him due to
a past experience back in his days at school. Love is a central theme
to the story this time around. Gru is in love and a fun love storyline
comes in full effect. Not only is Gru in love, but Gru's oldest
daughter Margo also experiences the rush of falling in love. Even Dave,
one of Gru's many Minions, falls in love. This love theme is what sets
this sequel apart from the original. We have an array of new characters now. The first one is Lucy Wilde,
the orange-haired woman who works for the AVL and eventually becomes
Gru's love interest. Her funny actions and hyperactive behavior makes
her a fantastic addition to the wide range of vibrant characters here.
There's also Silas Ramsbottom (emphasis on "bottom"), the leader of the
AVL. His elegant personality and unique appearance makes him a lovable
addition to the diverse cast. The final main addition to the character
list is Eduardo Perez, the owner of a Mexican restaurant whose real
identity provokes the saying: "there's more than meets the eye". While these new colorful characters add a delight to the screen, none
of them compare to the lovable army of yellow Minions. Hands down, they
stole the whole film. They have fantastic chemistry with just about
anybody and they're funny as hell. Every sound that comes out of their
is just damn hilarious. I have no doubt that children will enjoy the
Minions' mischiefs. This time, the Minions have more scenes dedicated
to them too, compared to their appearance in the first film. Oh, and
don't forget Dr. Nefario too, who sadly has his appearance minimized.
But every time he appears on screen, he's a delight. The comedy here works too. The jokes are humorous and most of them work
for all ages. Some of them may not be original or repetitive, but
they're still able to give you a laugh. And it doesn't hurt that an
incredible cast was behind the delivery of the jokes here. Steve Carell
was charming as usual and he never fails to impress with his excellent
voice portrayal of Gru. Kristen Wiig was energetic as the energizing
Lucy Wilde. Benjamin Bratt also gave a satisfying performance as
Eduardo Perez. The rest of the cast was superb too. The visual effects were incredible. The sets were also very vibrant and
colorful. They're so wonderful that they make the film come to life.
Everything is splendid about the setting. They're also very detailed
and it's just a treat for the eyes. The animation too is just eye-
popping. All the characters' movements are extremely detailed and very
smooth. The 3D is more of an optional choice though, but some scenes
are especially tailored for 3D as they literally pop out of the screen,
especially the end credits. Don't miss that one. Despite the beautiful visuals, the film only explores several locations
which is kind of upsetting. A big chunk of the film is set in Paradise
Mall, a colorful mall. Some scenes take us to other places but I feel
that it's kind of limited. I feel that it's kind of a missed
opportunity because the animation here is just irresistible and they
could've given us more sets to feast our eyes on. But despite some setbacks, "Despicable Me 2" is a satisfying sequel to
the excellent original. I won't say that it's better than the original
because it lacks the freshness the first film possessed. But this
sequel comes really close and this should be an entertaining 98- minute
adventure. Rating: 8/10Final Verdict: It's not as fresh as the original but "Despicable Me 2"
nearly matches the first one and is highly entertaining for all
audiences, with plenty of laughs and a superb cast.
