2
Black Hawk Down

"Sufficiently advanced negligence is indistinguishable from malice." -
Virginia Fell December 26th, 2004. An earthquake in the Indian Ocean unleashes a
violent tsunami. 50 foot waves hurtle toward Indonesia, Thailand, Sir
Lanka and India. Coastal regions surrounding the Indian Ocean are
devastated. Hundreds of thousands die or go missing. Millions are left
homeless. As is always the case with natural disasters, the poor and
the marginalised suffer the most, losing their lives, homes,
possessions and/or livelihoods. When the waters recede, thousands more
die due to contaminated drinking water and disease.Within 15 minutes of the earthquake, the American weather bureau in
Hawaii warns 26 countries to expect an imminent tsunami radiating from
the quake's epicentre. None of the countries finally affected are
deemed worthy of being notified. The Japanese weather bureau detects
the quake but likewise fails to pass on its information. The Indian Air
Force receives news of the quake/tsunami, but this news gets lost in
bureaucracy and is not passed on. Thailand is alerted but officials
dare not launch a national alert for fear of causing panic. Two years
prior to the tsunami, the Inter-Governmental Oceanographic Commission
predicts a possible quake/tsunami in the region and stresses the need
to put in place early detection networks. Because Member States all
view national tsunami warning and mitigation facilities as being
"unprofitable", the Commission's cautions are ignored. Had the 2004
tsunami occurred in the Pacific Ocean, it would have been detected by
the international tsunami warning system.In the years leading up to the tsunami, environmentalists warn that the
destruction of each country's "bio-shields" will exasperate the damage
done by future tsunamis. They're ignored. Considered impediments to the
South Asian economy, miles of coral reef are destroyed (via dynamite)
and miles of coastal mangrove culled, all to make way for shipping
lanes, shrimp farms, aquaculture industries and other economic choices
(Thailand has lost half its mangrove cover over the past 2 decades). As
predicted, areas stripped of their "natural" defences are hit the
hardest by the tsunami. Where the mangrove/coral fields were left
intact, no lives were lost and little damage done. To satiate economic
interests, the poor, living precariously on the water's edge, are
deemed a rational sacrifice. Following the tsunami, the damaged land –
now "devalued" - is gobbled up by wealthy investors. The poor are
pushed even further out and the strategically grabbed land reallocated
for future tourism development.Juan Bayona's "The Impossible", a film about the 2004 tsunami, bills
itself as a film about "the triumph of the human spirit in the face of
adversity". It was the "human spirit" that caused the adversity, but
let's ignore that. Let's focus instead on some white tourists. They're
played by Naomi Watts and Ewan McGregor, a British (?) couple who
travel to Thailand with their two sons. On the way to their hotel,
Watts reads some Joseph Conrad ("Heart of Darkness", "Typhoon"?),
presumably because she loves symbolism. After much foreshadowing, a
series of monster waves descend upon our white family. 300,000 deaths
later, and the couple's son learns to be less of a jerk. The family hug
and fly back to Disneyland, leaving Thailand behind. Things work out
pretty well for them.The film pretends to be about "universal goodwill", about how "tragedy
brings people together". It's mostly relentlessly dehumanising. People
do not matter unless they're white, the film filled with white victims
and the white dispossessed. Local characters are either invisible or
reduced to a couple rescue units at the bidding of white sufferers.
Whilst many have complained that our foregrounded characters are white,
that's not really the problem. The problem's that background characters
are likewise. The fact that the vast majority of the dead, injured and
displaced were Asian never registers. This has an interesting effect.
In the way the film panders to white audiences whilst pretending to be
about the universality of suffering, its message becomes,
unconsciously, that nobody cares, and that target audiences identify
only with their own. It's not economically feasible to cater to the
Other. Of course it's fitting that a film about universal goodwill
largely ignores the suffering of non-white characters. The real life
event hinged on a similar social dismissal. A film about the plight of
wealthy, vacationing Westerners which turns a blind eye to the deaths
of thousands of locals perfectly sums up the lesson of the tsunami
itself; they don't matter.The film's built upon your typical Hollywood/Spielberg disaster/history
movie formula ("Schindler", "Deep Impact" etc). We're reduced to being
made to empathise with a handful of souls and then positioned to
celebrate when our chosen few escape the fate of thousands around them.
The formula works well as popcorn – it ably resorts to the usual shock
tactics and horror clichés - but is also crass: we have to cheaply
kill/maim others in order to engender the basest of emotions. Along the
way we ourselves are dehumanised, made complicit in dehumanising those
who are sacrificed for closure and our chosen few. McGregor would
defend the film's racial politics by comparing criticisms levelled
against it to those levelled against "Black Hawk Down". But "Down" was
a sinister, similarly racist film which posited American Colonialists
as victims of a historical situation in which they were precisely the
victimisers, responsible for all manners of evil, namely backing brutal
puppet dictators (Siad Barre et al), destabilising (and waging proxy
wars with) Somlia and Ethiopia, genocide, bankrupting Somalia,
manufacturing famine, assassinating revolutionary leaders, engendering
untold amounts of bloodshed, arming psychos, enforcing media blackouts
and waging a secret war on the democratically elected Islamic Courts
Union for the specific aim of stopping any semblance of nationhood in
Somalia (all at the behest of Conoco, Amoco, Chevron, Phillips etc).
"Black Hawk Down's" not a defence, it's the problem. 6/10 – Generic, well acted, white-centric, self-absorbed FX porn. Needs
a laugh track and Morgan Freeman giving his "Deep Impact" speech in
front of a Thai Restaurant.
