10
The movie vs the book

Okay so I watched the movie before i read the book and normally if i've
watched a movie first i wouldn't read the book afterwards. but because
i saw loads of people complaining about how drastically different they
made it i thought i'd give it a go . So I really loved the movie so
much but then i read the book and it was so much better and the plots
are different the only thing the same is the names of the characters
and the term duff. anyway so i thought i'd make a list of the
differences just in case anybody couldn't be bothered to read the book
or vice versa. obviously SPOILERSIn the movie: There's a ''mean girl'' called MadisonWesley agrees to make Bianca dateable in exchange she helps him pass
science. Bianca initially doesn't like Wesley, but they become friends
fairly quicklyBianca's dad and mum are divorced and she lives with her mum who is a
motivational speaker. her dad is not seen in the movie only mentioned.The main love interest Toby tucker is supposed to be this sensitive guy
who plays guitar.Homecoming dance is where Bianca realises she loves Wesley and they
kiss and she realises everyone is a duff etc.In the book: There is no specific mean girl.Bianca really despises Wesley a lot more than how it came across in the
movie. But they end up being f--- buddies as she uses sex as a form of
escapism during her parents divorce. Bianca lives with her dad who has had problems with alcoholism in the
past. Her mother travels a lot and is never at home, gives motivational
speeches after writing a failed self-help bookBianca specifically states in the book that Toby Tucker is not one of
those people that plays guitar instead he is quite a nerdy,polite guy.There is no home coming dance in the book but the place where Bianca
realises she loves Wesley is at a place called ''the nest'' which is
like an underage bar type thing. Wesley's arrogance is a lot more emphasised in the bookIn conclusion i feel that the book was more original and had more
substance. The movie is a lot more watered down but it has to be to fit
the 12 rating but it had a really good message as well. the book and
the movie should be enjoyed as separate things because they are that
different.
