1
Nothing new here

I haven't seen Amy Schumer's show but with all the talk about her it
seems as if she's regarded as some groundbreaking comedian. While this
movie isn't terrible, it plays it too safe and ends up being very
formulaic. There's definitely potential in Schumer's writing and I did
enjoy her acting, but overall this first film by her falls flat. The biggest problem with Trainwreck is that it's so predictable. It
uses the number one cliché in romance movies where the couple breaks up
and mopes around for a few days but then gets back together at the end
of the movie. I hate, HATE this cliché with a passion. It's so annoying that it's not
even funny. Off the top of my head here are some movies that use it:
Ted, Bridesmaids, Bruce Almighty, What Happens in Vegas, Office Space,
Pitch Perfect, and Rock of Ages.The problem with this cliché is that it ruins the pacing and it usually
shows a montage of sorts with the main character moping. Then all of
the sudden the main character is inspired, gets their life back on
track, and wins back their man/woman in unrealistic fashion.This cliché I can ignore if the movie has a focus on other topics, like
in Bridesmaids and Office Space. But if the main focus is the romance,
you can't make it so predictable. Trainwreck seemed to have other ideas
but does away with them rather quickly, even abruptly kills off a
character who had the most compelling subplot. It seems like Schumer
didn't know where to go with things outside of the romance.Now, some romance movies do use this cliché but they put a twist on it.
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is genius in its execution of the
plot and plays with the breakup scenario in a groundbreaking way. The
movie Sideways uses the cliché as well, but leaves the ending ambiguous
and up for the viewers to decide. It's no coincidence that both those
movies won an Oscar for writing.It's not good when I'm watching a movie and can predict exactly what
will happen. During Trainwreck, I kept saying to myself: "Please do
something different, please take this somewhere new" but that never
happens. By the end of the movie I was unimpressed. It's a shame because Schumer does have some funny ideas and I could see
her improving with her next film.
