2
Very disappointed

I was excited when I found this movie was coming out. I saw all 3
movies again on DVD 2 times each to be fully prepared. I saw the movie
right when I got off work on opening night (no matinée pricing, extra
for 3D), and I was sorely disappointed. The 3D technology used all the
gimmicks that I hate about 3D such as things flying at the screen. That
is soooo 1950s. Parts of the 3D near the beginning made it look like I
was watching a cartoon or some kind of animation. The inclusion of
"humans" in the main story line really mucked this movie up. The other
3 movies were much more interesting in learning and understanding the
cultures and issues between the Lycans and Vampires in this
"Underworld" that humans knew nothing about. If you are going to go
above ground, if Selene is now a day-walker thanks to Alexander
Corvinus, if humans are involved, it is no longer an "Underworld" is
it? Possible spoilers coming. I liked the new male vampire lead David
for himself, but felt him playing against Selene made her look like a
cougar even though there was no romantic interactions between the two.
Don't get me wrong, she looked SUPER hot as usual, but he was way too
young (or young looking) to be her male lead. The storyline seemed to
have themes of every action and/or futuristic movie I have ever seen.
This movie series should be like a serial, an evolving storyline, not
more, bigger, badder to try to get butts in the seats. I enjoyed
getting to know the previous characters, but sadly almost ALL of them
are gone. I never got to know the new characters too well because the
writing, directing and/or editing sucked. A Black cop? What a cliché.
Black characters were used effectively in the previous films, but the
cop in the new film was a mistake. Also the cop helping out the
criminal, human killing vampire (just because she's hot) is also a
cliché. Cops never abandon their responsibilities for fat smelly biker
looking criminals with big hearts. Additionally, the cop was a known
actor. This is a gimmick. They may as well should have added Sean
Connery or Liam Neeson. Great actors, but gimmicks. Just like when
Jessica Biel and Ryan Reynolds showed up in the 3rd Blade series.
Selene is a death dealer killing Lycans. I was surprised when she
killed certain people in the movie like when she dropped the guy out
the window who SAID he'd saved her (she did not know at the time that
he was lying). Also Selene was WAY more acrobatic (in terms of
frequency and physical ability than the previous movies), I did not
like this. The Godzilla sized Lycan was ridiculous. They never fully
explained what/why was going on in the laboratory. There was
inconsistency (in the other movies too) in the fact that when Selene
shoots Lycans with bullets, they die. However, everyone else must use
silver bullets? Shooting the floor of the elevator about to crash down
on her? Rip off of movie 1. First, why did she not just get out of the
shaft if she is THAT fast. Secondly, even though the floor was shot out
that DID NOT (or should not) stop the circular disk from crashing into
her and smashing her. If her skeletal structure is strong enough to
withstand this, then what's the need to shoot out the floor. In fact,
if she is immortal, other than sunlight (which no longer affects her),
why the need to shoot the floor out of the elevator at all. In fact, if
she IS a day-walker, like Michael how did they ever become known to the
police. the story points out that the police were dragging people into
daylight to see if they would burn. Michael and Selene do not have this
issue. Michael can change at will. Wouldn't they just blend in and
never be discovered? Finally, where are these movies supposed to take
place? Hungary? Eastern Europe. Selene speaks a foreign language in
this and other movies, but now she is suddenly in the United States
with no explanation?. Where and why did she ever learn English in the
first place.Oh...the daughter. According to IMDb she is turning
NINETEEN this year! So much for playing a 12 year old.The movie felt short and it also felt like a total setup for the next
film which we'll have to wait, how many years for? Maybe never if
enough folks don't go to see this. I like this series and will see the
next one. True fans won't pass this by either. However, new fans keep
things going. I doubt they'll be back.Note to the producers, for
underworld 4 PREVIEW the script and the movie with the real fans, the
folks that have seen the other 3 movies multiple times, not a bunch of
tourists walking around Burbank looking for free passes.
