8
Bring The Thunder

This review of Thor: Ragnarok is spoiler free**** (4/5)LIKE CHANTING BETELGUISE'S name, for Marvel products the phrase third
time's a charm really works, of course well-earned nods to brother
directors Anthony and Joe Russo's Captain America: Civil War which
accomplished all fears for its enchanting, eye-shattering Leipzig
airport battle scene having the heroes involved showing what they can
do, the standout there was Black Panther and the introduction of the
newer, younger much improved Spider-Man. Then we had Shane Black's turn
at Iron Man 3 which vastly improved on its predecessor. Now the third
and final entry in the Thor series is one of the most ridiculous, most
hilarious adventures Marvel has ever produced, it's essentially like
eating a badger sandwich, and no we don't know what that is either. This daftness comes from none other than New Zealand-born director
Taika Waititi, who over the last few years has created some of the most
bizarre adventures ever told in cinema with his hilarious
vampire-mockumentary What We Do In The Shadows and secondly Hunt For
The Wilderpeople which had a stunning performance from Sam Neill in a
hat made from a collinder. However Thor: Ragnarok is his most
ridiculous adventure yet.After Chris Hemsworth's Thor is hurled from the bifrost he's captured
on a strange planet which from first glance is obviously the universe's
trash can, under the rule of Jeff Goldblum's daft, yet tyrannical
Grandmaster who looks like he just wears anything he finds in the 80s
factory complete with a blue line under his lip and comes with a lot of
Goldbluminess, he's funny as hell - he gives Thor the ultimate fight
against his champion - Hulk's (Mark Ruffalo) welcome is really no
surprise but comes with a roundhouse of applause particularly with the
well-drawn hand-to-hand combat in a Star Wars-esque gladiatorial
coliseum which can't escape Thor's scream of joy and a few quick-witted
jokes to get you going. Meanwhile on the other side of the universe the
Asghardians are held for a fight for their survival after a vicious
attack from Cate Blanchett's goddess of death Hela looking a tad like
Alice Cooper's twisted sister complete with a horned helmet for
ferocity. Sadly her performance is the film's weakest point, she
doesn't exactly come with Galadriel's strength or depth she's not
Marvel's best villain, though a better improvement over Thor: The Dark
World's Dark Elves. She's not in many scenes and when she does appear
her delivery is often heavy-handed and empty with little feeling.The script penned by Eric Pearson, Craig Kyle and Christopher Yost is
an improvement over the previous instalment too - the funnier scenes
are along the same lines as James Gunn's unadulterated joy for
Guardians of the Galaxy Volume 2, here there are arse gags and penis
gags aplenty which is a vast improvement over the previous two films'
barrier for serious face the actors are allowed to let loose here.
Particularly the shared chemistry between Thor who hates having his
hair cut, Hulk angry as ever and Tessa Thompson's surly Valkyrie who
can't stop drinking yet comes with a humanizing story giving her
performance some emotion. Yet there's humour to them too they each
share their time with the whims and the jokes that the script has to
offer, the three arguing in a room with an angry Hulk and a teamed
final fight are obvious standouts. Sadly, Thor: Ragnarok doesn't come without its flaws it's not utterly
thunderous throughout the last few minutes of the final fight are a
little CG heavy there's a lot going on in a few shots it can be
difficult to follow a certain point which watching in 3D can be on
occasion daunting to the eyes. Though there is some goodness the CG
images on show, here the destruction of Asghard though upsetting for
the fans who have stayed with the series is thoroughly stunning plus
this is the most impressive vision of Hulk yet, he's still a wonder to
watch from the outrageous gladiatorial combat, through the hilarious
jokes he lets free to the film's final fight he's relentless and
utterly charming. This is vintage Waititi he is clearly at home here in
the huge immersive worlds of space or the cramped space of Hulk's
chamber he allows you to breathe with the world he has created here.
The finale of the Thor series is one of the most intense, boldest
adventures Marvel has ever created does it bring on the thunder? You're
damn right it does.VERDICT Daft, ridiculous and hilarious Waititi manages to retain his
unique brand of humour and goofball madness in this neon-infused 80s
style finale.
