4
A below average retread of previous pirates films

After not really caring for the last pirates of the Caribbean film I
didn't have high expectations for this movie but I went and saw it and
I was right to have these low expectations. The premise of the film
sees the return of captain jack sparrow as he leads an expedition for
the Trident of Poseidon while on the run from an old enemy. Johnny depp
has become known for the role of jack sparrow and I think when in that
character he usually delivers his best, that was until this film. He
has some of the charisma and jack nuances in his performances that
makes him entertaining, but this character is a shell of his former
self. This is the least funny he has ever been, the least charming he
has been and I ended up feeling like he phoned in this performance
quite a bit. The supporting cast is pretty large but I will go over the
main ones, Salazar played by Javier bardem is the main villain in this
film and I thought he was a pretty decent villain. He is a little hard
to understand at times but, he is pretty menacing in this film and I
liked his back story that makes him also a little sympathetic but then
he is menacing and it adds to his performance. Geoffrey rush is back as
hector barbosa in this film and like always he is great, I wasn't the
biggest fan of some of the things done with his character but rush
always gives a fun charismatic performance that does make me smile.
However, we get to the new characters played by Brendon thwaites and
kaya scodelario who are both completely wooden and lacking. I didn't
buy there chemistry at all and I didn't like the involvement of lore to
try to make Them interesting because they really weren't. The story is
very jumbled and a bit all over the place, similar to stranger tides
there is just too many people going after this artifact that you don't
even remember them all. The Salazar plot and trident plot feels like
two different movies and the meshing just really didn't work. The
script has a couple of laughs in it I can't deny that I laughed enough
for passable. However, there was a lot of misses in this script with
this possibly being the least funny of the films and definitely the
film with the least drama and heart in it. The style of this film has
some of the pirates action scenes that are very enjoyable especially
towards the beginning of the film. But as the film progresses the
action felt a bit hollow as I didn't really care about any of the
characters. Overall this is the weakest pirates film in my opinion and
unless you are a big fan of this franchise like me it isn't really
worth a watch.
