9
If you liked the 1st ted you'll love it, if you didn't well you won't like this one either.

Ted 2 lets talk about it! OK i saw this film 2 months ago at an early
screening and unlike a few idiots on here i actually kept my mouth shut
due to the embargo and quiet possibly getting sued if i let any info
slip lol. Anyways i ENJOYED this movie a ton!!! Let's get one thing
straight here, if you didn't like the 1st TED or you don't like
anything Seth Mcfarlane related then STAY AWAY! This movie isn't for
you and it won't change your mind about anything. I LOVED the first ted
and i knew that this movie might be a weak sequel like most sequels are
now in days...... and surprise, surprise it actually exceeded my
expectations. Ted 2 is almost as good as the first! ALMOST! One of my
concerns was the cast change, i hate when movies replace or change
characters in sequels. SO i felt that Mila Kunis's absence was going to
be very obvious and there would be a hole in this movie that the new
lead Amanda Seyfried just could not fill. AND another surprise! Her
character worked to PERFECTION!!! The chemistry that she had with Mark
Wahlberg and Seth Mcfarlane was just amazing. I was like "there's no
way she could be better than Mila" and BOOM she nailed it.The story most of you may already know from the trailers, Ted gets
married and then the State says Ted is property and not a person so the
marriage is annulled and he basically loses everything. So the story
worked, the first movie focused more on John and this one is more about
ted. I had no real complaints with this film, there is a cameo with
Liam Neeson which IMO was just pointless and not that funny.... There
are some moments where they try too hard with the jokes or to be
shocking but Besides a few nitpicks i had no complaints with this
movie! It is laugh out loud funny, it has serious moments similar to
the first and it's just a fun film! There are some returning characters
and i won't spoil that. And ohh yeah the Comic Con scene in this film
with Patrick Warburton and the running gag they have going on is SUPER
HILARIOUS!!! I'm giving TED 2 an 8.5/10.
