4
A bit of a disappointment

Percy Jackson and his friends return for the sequel "Sea of Monsters".
I have not read the books so I can't compare the film to the book. But,
if the title is "Sea of Monsters", shouldn't we see some monsters??? If
you want to get technical, sure, there is a one (yeah just one) sea
monster they have to encounter, and they are able to manage it with
relative ease.Logan Lerman is a pretty good young actor and I've enjoyed his other
films as well as the first Percy Jackson which was a lot better than
this sequel. The story is simple, the barrier that protects their camp
is broken and we find out in the beginning that it was put there
because of a sacrifice from one of their own when she was a child. Zues
turns the young child into a tree essentially and its the tree that
protects the camp. But the tree is poisoned and the barrier is broken
through by a very large mechanical bull who shoots fire.The quest is given to retrieve the golden fleece which lies in the Sea
of Monsters, which to us humans is the Bermuda Triangle. Percy isn't
chosen, but of course, he and his friends decide they need to go
because it's part of a prophecy he's involved in. And from there the
story goes.There's a couple action scenes here and there but just when it seemed
like it might be getting good, it abruptly ends. I'm not sure if the
actors tried to improvise or not, because there are more than a few
attempts to get quick laughs with one liners which I didn't find all
too funny. The one bright spot was Nathan Fillion's character "Hermes"
who does successfully get the laughs he deserves.Towards the end it gets a bit more entertaining, but by that time it
might be too late to get the audience's full attention and not thinking
about what to eat after the movie. This is more suited for the young
adult genre, (I'm 25) but I enjoyed the first one that I thought I
would give this one a shot.Overall, it doesn't live up to its predecessor and the quick attempts
at humor and the all too short action sequences leave the audience
unsatisfied. 4/10 You can find all my reviews here
http://imdb.com/user/ur6157371/comments
