2
Worst sequel ever?

As the credits began to roll, i sat for a moment, allowing it all to
sink in. Had i just witnessed the most disappointing sequel ever? I had
not felt this disheartened by a sequel since "The Matrix: Reloaded"
Like "The Matrix", "300" for me was excellent; groundbreaking. Fresh
and original. And then instead of leaving it as is, they decide to
bring in the cash cow and milk it dry. I loved "300"; the action was
engrossing, the story was compelling, it was an instant classic. And i
never wanted to hear the announcement of an unnecessary sequel. My gut
churned when i heard it. But i never thought in my worst nightmares
that it would be as bad as it was. The trailer baits you in, with what
seemed a promising plot. And left intrigue. By the end of the film it
is clear that it was nothing more than a cheap ruse.The film is all over the place. All this films does is take everything
that made the first film great and urinate all over it. The slow motion
kills are done to death....within the first 10 minutes. It contained
more speeches than the Oscars. It was like a game of battleships
(though i would replace the p with a more appropriate t). And between
the over the top action sequences they would stand like Hercules and
pose..constantly. Then there's the blood......In what can only be
described as small versions of The Smoke from "Lost". Maybe done to
cater to 3D, but from the very first kill it was so idiotic and made it
look extremely cheap. Some of the scenes are atrociously acted. Was
sometimes like they where reading their lines from a placard.The big problem with the film is that is so evident, from the
announcement it was to be made, that it was going to try and ride the
coat tails of the first film. Cling on for dear life to the actual 300,
to the success of the first film. And it showed. It was like "Bourne
Legacy" trying to stand on its own without Jason Bourne. If it was its
own film it would be one of the worst films ever. But they have the
ability to constantly reference Leonidas, even, in a sign of
desperation, show Leonidas on several occasions. At one point
Themistokles seeks him out. But instead talks to everyone else in
Sparta apart from Leonidas. Pointless one would say. The film lacks the passion, the originality and the spirit from the
first film. And yet again another moneymaker that chooses to replace
those characteristics with an overexposure of mimicking and a soul-less
display of film making.
