1
If you want to see something dead become a "real boy", I recommend Pinocchio…

Why? Dear lord, why is this movie rated over seven? Are the humanity
seriously that retarded? Can people no longer separate good from bad?
These are just some of the questions I am left with after watching
this.First of all, this movie should have been a parody, not a romantic
comedy! The movie had been easier to accept if it was in a different
genre. For example like «Shaun of the Dead». In that case I would
totally accept the zombie-human love thing going on (NOT). Although
there is humor in Warm Bodies, and it's clearly a movie that wants to
be taken seriously, I do not buy the over all story!Secondly, I get really embarrassed over how this so-called "dialogue"
through the film is written. Moaning, "yes" and groaning "not safe" is
totally not necessary. This could have been solved less awkward by
letting the character show how he feels/thinks through something else,
for example music (since they already have made a big scene about this,
which I personally don't think evolved as good as it could).Furthermore, I think the movie is wrong in terms of how zombies
actually are. Zombies are, as they're in ALL the other movies and books
on this subject – dead creatures. They do not live, they do not think
and they certainty do not feel! But most of all THEY DO NOT SPEAK! They
react only by instincts, and that instinct tells them to eat your face
of.I get the fact that this is a movie where the zombie boy gets
"feelings", so I will not criticize that further on. But why didn't
they just give him these human attributes along with him growing a
heart? Why let him moan through phrases that would even get the heavy
addicts uncomfortable?I think a lot of this could have been solved to the better if the genre
of this movie was a parody, as I stated previously. It would certainty
be more fun to watch, and maybe I would actually laugh of the horrible
scenes that was made to be funny and not feel the urge to scratch out
my eyes and ears..Warm Bodies is in fact a movie about a zombie who falls in love with
his dinner. If that's not awkward enough – A post-apocalyptic Romeo and
Juliet story is! Yes, I see the reference. I AM NOT BLIND! (yet, but I
could be if I see this movie again) The world's most famous lovers will
always be used as inspiration for love stories; I understand that, but
really, WHY? WHY couldn't this have been done with a little more
sophistic or finesse? Do the producers even have a brain, or did the
zombies eat it?Do not watch this BRAIN DEAD move if you have a beating heart. If you
want to see something dead become a "real boy", I recommend Pinocchio…
