8
A re-boot and a real hoot!

What is wrong with these snarky critics? I just saw this film (and I
paid full price for my tickets, all you lucky previewers!) I thought
this film was very good -- far better than I had expected from reading
all the criticism from the film critics and some of the comments from
viewers. Did they just miss the point entirely? Listen, it's not that
complicated. This movie just takes the old Lone Ranger classics (radio
and TV serial) and has fun with re-booting that story. It's Tonto who
is the one telling the story this time and the Lone Ranger who's the
straight man -- and this actually works (in my opinion). After all,
this is really a re-boot -- a "how the Lone Ranger became the classic
hero" story -- and having Tonto tell the story is a brilliant move to
change the straight-laced Lone Ranger as infallible Western superhero
into a believable character for a more modern audience. John Reid, the
guy who's eventually going to become the Lone Ranger, starts out as a
straight-laced stiff who takes himself and his beliefs far too
seriously. Tonto clearly thinks he's pretty useless -- and that's a
funny premise to begin with. Armie Hammer is perfectly credible as John
Reid -- he's plays fish out of water in the bad old West, but slowly
(with Tonto's help) he starts to learn what he needs to learn to be
effective in putting a halt to the evil done by the bad guys.Tonto is a great role for Johnny Depp. It's his deadpan humor that
provides the story's most lively commentary on how the Lone Ranger is
progressing in learning his craft. I think many people were startled by
Johnny Depp's costume -- but go look up Kirby Statler's "I am Crow"
picture on Google images. There is an historical basis for how Johnny
Depp decided to dress as Tonto. Besides, historically speaking, it was
less likely that an Indian living in the canyons area of west Texas
would be an Apache -- which is the closest native costume to how Jay
Silverheels (the TV serial's Tonto) dressed -- than it would be for the
Indian to be a Comanche. I've lived in Texas for decades and actually
studied Texas (and Comanche) history enough so that I have no problem
with Johnny Depp's outfit -- and the crow on his head actually ends up
involved in some pretty funny bits in the movie! They actually were
pretty clever in how they did this.The point of the picture is both the individual journey that John Reid
makes to become the Lone Ranger (earning Tonto's friendship and respect
along the way) and the overall nature of the forces arrayed against
them. During the course of the film, the whole picture slowly becomes
clear about what the bad guys are up to and who is helping them and why
... and the climax of the film (the last 20 minutes or so) is just a
spectacular action sequence. Here, the Lone Ranger is finally the hero
we remember -- and so it's fitting that when we hear the William Tell
overture cut in, it's funny but also it finally fits! The final battle
is very very well done. It's a very complicated sequence, with lots of
different participants, but Verbinski does a great job of helping the
audience keep track of who's who and what's going on. It works!
Finally, I think some people had a problem with the "frame story." I
didn't. I totally thought that worked. If Tonto is telling the tale --
the myth of the old West, the myth of the Lone Ranger -- to a kid, then
that leaves us, the audience, to decide what parts of the story are
embellished for mythmaking and storytelling and what parts are the
parts that a younger Tonto actually experienced. I think that's
brilliant, actually. How else, other than through this kind of mythic
lens, could you tell such a classic hero tale to a modern audience? By
the way, about some of the earlier reviews that mentioned a bloody
scene involving the bad guy actually eating a heart ... the theatrical
release we saw today did not have this as an explicit action scene.
That is, you hear the bad guy say he's going to do it, and he
apparently does do it, but you do not specifically see the bloody gory
deed. I assume that (maybe just for American audiences) they edited
that down to be more suggestive than completely depicted. I would say
that this is a movie that kids (down to the age of 8, say) could
tolerate without major trauma.HINT: There IS a final bit over the last part of the credits that I
think answers some of the questions about whether Tonto is who he says
(to the kid) that he is.
