7
Root For The Stars

What If asks a basic question if a friendship between a boy and a girl
could lead their relationship to something romantic. It isn't an idea
that we haven't heard before, of course, but for some reason the movie
does feel a lot fresh. It offers one thing that we don't always see in
a romantic film lately: an ultimately likable on screen couple. They
may not be a typical stale supermodel looking pair, the uniqueness it
highlights to these characters are their personalities and their
problems. It may not make their personal situations any complex, but it
still is a memorable little romcom that shines through its humor and
performances.The film is best when it only settles with its two leads starting to
build their connection into friendship until it gets serious. What
makes this love story so genuine is their conversations as friends
pouring out their honest views toward something, like love or their
lives. Following its central plot would make the clichés visible, but
by just looking through the world of these characters is what helps it
show its own color. It also sells well when they reveal each of their
issues, it sometimes takes them as one of its jokes, but whenever it
gets compellingly heavy, it usually resolve those situations too easy.
It's probably because it wanted to focus more on its sweetness, but it
does still deserve some depth at the unthinkable fate of the
"friendzone".The depth is instead placed on the actors. There is an undeniable charm
to be found in Daniel Radcliffe, even though his character is struck
with a cynical side personality and Zoe Kazan brings much of the soul
to the connection of every person her character jumps right into. Both
of them spark a strangely admirable chemistry that makes the witty
screen writing sound more lively. It just embraces the awkwardness of
their desires. The direction makes it real simple, though it does pull
off a little hipster-y animation when it shows their abstract feelings,
but most of the time it just let it linger at the very meaningful
moments.The most important thing What If needs is gumption at portraying how
doomed the both are from ending up with each other, but it still is a
worth a watch for its often delightful environment. Its strongest
appeal is just the two stars tagging you along in their world of an
uncertain luck. Not sure what kind of people would leave the theater
having sudden thoughts of word magnets and art-driven animation, or
nachos and Fool's Gold Loaf, but to be sure this film has its
distinction as a romantic comedy. Overall, it's all pretty nice.
