1
Unfathomably Terrible

Walking into the over crowded theater to see yet another over hyped M.
Night Shyamalan movie, I already missed the money I had spent on the 90
minute torture. Let's face it, Shymalan has not made a fantastic movie
in over a decade and this movie does not show any signs of him getting
any better. We all know as soon as we turn on a Shymalan movie that there is going
to be a plot twist that is so obscure that we would never have thought
of it, but the Visit fails to deliver this mind blowing twist. The idea
that the 'grandparents' were mental patients who had escaped seemed
pretty self explanatory from the start. Not only is the twist a
complete failure but the movie delivers no real scare. There are a few
cheap jump scares throughout, but no suspense or build up.The children in the movie are seldom frightened by the bizarre behavior
of their 'grandparents', but they do make a lot of jokes about them and
are very sarcastic about everything that happens. This strongly takes
away from the horror factor. Think about it. You're stuck in a place
with 2 elderly people you have never met who are very strange and at
one point you even record one of them knocking on your door with a
knife. Witty banter is the last thing on your mind. Finally the very last issue with this movie comes from one of the last
scenes in which the 'grandfather' shoves dirty diaper in the young boys
face and in retaliation, the boy kills the old man all the while
yelling like the hype man at an 8 mile rap battle. No not like he's
yelling because he's a minor killing someone who just shoved crap in
his face, but literally like Eminem's on stage hype guy. As if that
wasn't enough to defeat the end of this movie, after a touching scene
with their mother, the movie cuts to the young boy in his sisters room
rapping about his visit. If a kid had crap shoved in his mouth he
wouldn't be writing a rap about it. If a kid had to kill someone to go
home he wouldn't be rapping about it. He would be talking to a
therapist and not acting as if nothing had ever happened.In conclusion, this movie was unrealistic, the emotions of the kids
were very unnatural, the plot twist was barely a twist, and I would
never see this movie again if I was paid to.
