2
There's no safe haven from Nicholas Sparks

There are mass murderers and former dictators rotting away in prison
cells who have done better for the human condition than author,
Nicholas Sparks. If Nicholas Sparks was a conflict he would be the
Hundred Years War; if he were a baseball team he would be the 1962 New
York Mets; if he were a boxer he'd be Jerry Quarry.Since 2004's "The Notebook," which at least earned praise for the
inclusion of veteran stars James Garner and Gena Rowlands, but catcalls
for Ryan Gosling and Rachel McAdams (at least Gosling has become a
better actor since), Sparks has become the antithesis to romantic
dramas and to good film, in general. Follow-ups such as "Dear John," "The Last Song" and "The Lucky One,"
have all gotten progressively (or even exponentially) worse. That
pattern continues with his latest Valentine's Day release, "Safe
Haven," which is nothing more than "Sleeping with the Enemy" meets "The
Lucky One." In fact, during this picture I quietly prayed for Zac Efron
to appear and make everything better again.Directed by Lasse Hallström (the man behind such quality productions as
"My Life as a Dog," "What's Eating Gilbert Grape" and "The Cider House
Rules"), this picture has a woman on the run trying to hide her
identity but stumbles upon love in an unbelievably bucolic North
Carolina fishing village.Katie ("Rock of Ages" Julianne Hough, as in "hough" did she get up on
the big screen? Answer, she's living with Ryan Seacrest — talk about
sleeping one's way to the bottom) flees a murder rap in Boston in a bus
and is trying to avoid a psycho police office (David Lyons, "Eat Pray
Love"). Conveniently, she settles in South Point where few people speak, with
the exception of general store owner Alex (Josh Duhamel, "Transformers"
franchise), a widower with a cute, ready-made Hollywood family
(including the robotic kid actor who was so bad in "Playing for
Keeps").He is smitten, but she's a cold fish (remember, she has "secrets" that
WE know about, but Alex does not). He makes small talk, she ignores it,
he gives her a bicycle, she cannot accept it, etc., etc., etc. But of
course, since this is a Nicholas Sparks' adaptation, you know love —
and a certain amount of lust — is just lurking around the corner.Soon, she discovers what a wonderful, caring, handsome man he is — and
he loves children, to boot. Alex is, after all, a '90s woman. In the
third act, though, we know a certain cop will show up to add what
little drama his arrival can add to a film like this and it takes a
plot twist from the planet Pluto to save the day.It has been said that Sparks (who now boasts his own production
company, so the "fun" will continue for years to come) has trouble
writing men, but can certainly capture women. After "Safe Haven," I can
honestly say he cannot write ANYONE. His latest effort is schmaltzy, predictable, clichéd to the point of
absurdity, and has no chemistry whatsoever between his good-looking
leads. In fact, now that I think about it, "Safe Haven" actually is the
perfect Valentine's Day date movie — provided, of course, that you and
your date avoid it at all costs.
