6
Could've been a masterpiece

Homesman left me with some mixed feelings. I really liked the idea and
theme of this movie, but certain aspects of the storytelling are just
ridiculous.The story takes place in 1850s Nebraska where a small community of
homesteaders decides to send three mad women to a home in Iowa. Mary
Bee Cuddy (Hilary Swank), a seemingly strong and independent spinster,
volunteers for the task of transporting these women. Along the way she
meets George Briggs (Tommy Lee Jones), a scruffy-looking drifter and
claim jumper, whom she rescues from certain death and subsequently
recruits to help her complete the journey.Homesman presents the viewer with rather depressing yet captivating
tale of pioneering existence and hardships with particular focus on
women. It's obviously something that you don't see very often in an
average western.The main issue with the film is that it suddenly loses momentum by
switching its focus from Mary Bee Cuddy onto George Briggs. It's
strange because Briggs is inherently far less interesting character
than Cuddy; and by essentially promoting him from support role to the
lead role, the film undermines its own feminist vibe. As a result the
final 30 or so minutes feel like rather lengthy and pointless epilogue.
It should be noted that this happens in the novel as well, so in that
regard the film stays true to it. Yet it still doesn't make much sense
to me.Another minor issue with the movie can be attributed to the character
of Mary Bee. The reason for her personal drama is extremely
implausible. The idea that a successful, hard-working woman -- a woman
capable of childbearing -- had trouble finding husband due to being
"plain" looking, is quite frankly silly. This is almost the exact
opposite of what was really going on in that specific period. The fact
that many people lost their minds due to harsh conditions is true, but
ironically, that is the same reason why someone like Mary Bee could've
never been single for long.In short, Homesman is a movie that gets period ambiance right, but
produces a rather disjointed story with bizarre twist. It is still
something that is worth watching, in my opinion. Both Tommy Lee Jones
and Hilary Swank deliver very impressive performances.
