5
Incredibly making 'Prometheus' seemed decent in comparison, 'Alien: Covenant' is a glorified monotonous pit stop in the film series.

Set 10 years after the events of 'Prometheus,' the story begins with
the crew of the colony ship Covenant receiving a possible distress call
coming from an uncharted planet that seemed to be paradise for humans
to live on. Once there, the crew discover the world is much dangerous
than it seems but none more dangerous than encountering David, the
android from the doomed Prometheus expedition.From the get go, none of the human characters in 'Covenant' are
interesting or memorable enough and except for a few, most of them are
just faceless red shirts. Some of them act annoyingly hysterical which
results in some face-palming reactions and some act like they're in a
B-movie slasher flick, but worst of all, a few do something so
incredibly stupid that you end up wondering if Weyland- Yutani
intentionally hires morons to be part of their billion dollar
expeditions.Katherine Waterston plays Daniels and although she is probably the
"best" character among these losers, she's not written very well nor
does she have any notable moments. Michael Fassbender did a superb job
with his dual role of David and Walter. Most were expecting Danny
McBride to stink up the place but he turned out to be one of the very
few reasonably decent characters. Billy Crudup's Oram joins the ranks
of Fifeld and Millburn as the dumbest people in the 'Alien' series.Despite the many flaws of 'Prometheus' and the numerous dumb human
actions, the characters there were at least not boring and Elizabeth
Shaw (Noomi Rapace) was a good leading character that had many
memorable exciting scenes. 'Prometheus' even had some thrilling action
spectacle that wowed audience and expanded the Alien mythology.Those that are expecting to learn more about the Engineers will be
sorely disappointed as they are just briefly touched upon. The whole
movie just feels like one big glorified set-up to show the transition
from black goo to neomorph to finally xenomorph. Ridley Scott stated he
plans to make three more 'Alien' prequels after Covenant. The problem
now is we will get three more movies in the future to convolutedly and
exhaustively tie everything up leading up to the first 'Alien' movie
where the Engineer spacecraft somehow lands at the LV-426 moon.The horror element in 'Covenant' is quite satisfactory, showcasing some
spine-chilling terror and graphic kills. The action though is hugely
disappointing with the last two big action sequences being uninspiring
and unexceptional. The pacing during the last few minutes after the
fake-out ending seemed rushed and dissonant. The xenomorph felt
shoehorned. The pink-skinned neomorph was a worthy adversarial monster
on its own and much creepier than the xenomorph.If this is what Ridley Scott has in store for future Alien prequels, he
should just stop and do something else. Or better yet, allow Neill
Blomkamp to proceed with his planned 'Alien' do-over sequel where Hicks
and Newt are still alive. Interest for the 'Alien' franchise will
probably die down steadily with each prequel Ridley releases. This is
starting to feel more and more like when George Lucas' botched up the
'Star Wars' prequels.In space, no one can hear you scream. With each passing Alien prequels,
no one cares anymore.RATING: 5.5/10 or 6/10
