7
A technical masterpiece that is nearly devoid of palpable emotion and compelling characters.

Might as well get right to it, then. At the risk of sounding like a
contrarian, I did not love this film. Do I love elements of this? Yes.
Is this a 5-star masterpiece? Unfortunately, no. The cinematography here at least, is masterful. Director Christopher
Nolan has, without a doubt, reached the pinnacle of on-screen spectacle
here. The feats of practical effects in this film are breathtaking. The
casting of nearly 6,000 extras, authentic WWII vehicles, and shooting
on location in Dunkirk, France contribute to a great sense of scale
here. There is ongoing trend of action films in recent years of relying
on CGI, and thankfully Nolan bucks that trend. Similar to War for the Planet of the Apes, much of the film plays out
without much dialogue, leaning on just the score and sound design in
most scenes. It almost goes without saying that Hans Zimmer delivers
with another incredible score. The sound design is also extremely well
crafted, which, paired with Nolan's great work behind the camera, truly
transports you to the Battle of Dunkirk. The wailing of planes passing
above, the drone of gunfire, and the roar of explosions all contribute
to the complete immersion into the world these characters are trapped
in. This results in some of the most immersive wartime action scenes
since Saving Private Ryan.This film has and will continue to be compared to World War II classic
Saving Private Ryan. Both films are beautifully filmed WWII period
pieces with casts that deliver great performances. The similarities end
there. Whereas Saving Private Ryan was engrossing as a narrative due to
it's characters with depth and arcs, Dunkirk instead leans on it's
subject matter and spectacle.And while the subject matter of Dunkirk is fascinating, as a film it
lacks emotional firepower due to the absence of a strongly written
protagonist. This is strangely uncharacteristic of a director of
Nolan's caliber, especially when you recall the complex character work
in his most acclaimed films: The Dark Knight, Memento, and The
Prestige. Instead of focusing on a single character or single group of
characters, the focus is spread across three protagonists in completely
different situations. Showing the Dunkirk Evacuation through the three
different perspectives of those on the beach, the sea, and the air is
only an interesting proposition on paper. The narrative, due to this
writing choice, is spread far too thin, with few characters getting
enough screen time to develop even the mildest emotional connection.While the characters in this film aren't written to even remotely be
compelling, the great work from this cast is not to be overlooked.
Harry Styles, known for being a member of English boy band One
Direction, is surprisingly excellent here in his acting debut. Mark
Rylance, Kenneth Branagh, and Fionn Whitehead also all give standout
performances despite the limited screen time they are given. I should love this film. Historical drama? WWII setting? My favorite
director Christopher Nolan? Amazing cinematography? Superb performances
from an ensemble cast? All of these elements made me sure I would love
this going in. But, Dunkirk's lack of emotional connection severely
detracts from the awe-inspiring scope and technical prowess displayed. If I reviewed based on visuals alone, this is a slam-dunk, walk-off
home run of a 5-star film. While a focus on grandeur and situation over
character depth and emotion may work for some (it obviously worked for
98% of critics on Rotten Tomatoes), it did not work for this critic.This is without a doubt a cinematic achievement, but without an
emotional core, it's impossible for this film not to feel cold and
empty. Despite being a technical masterpiece, this is Christopher
Nolan's most disappointing film yet.
