7
A decent and satisfying remake

The new RoboCop is a surprisingly good and entertaining sci-fi action 

thriller that appeals to the human heart by conveying emotions and the 

humanity side of Murphy, the main character who eventually becomes the 

titled cyborg law enforcer. The film ultimately wins for not trying to 

be the original (1987 version). The story of Murphy is similar (since 

it's a remake) but does its own thing to provide something new instead 

of retelling the same thing again. The film focuses more on the 

development of Murphy's character, his initial response to his cyborg 

body and relationship with his family, making the character more 

emotional and relatable to the audience.



The film delves into the meaning of humanity, family themes, media 

influence on public opinion, corporate greed (capitalism), 

authoritarianism and corrupt law enforcement authorities. It provides a 

brief view of the struggles we might face with machines or digital 

surveillance of the future. It also briefly raises the question whether 

it's ethical or legal to eliminate the human factor in law enforcement 

to reduce crime rates by creating merciless cyborgs or robots to 

replace humans.



The action sequences are updated with a higher body count, with better 

CGI and sound effects, making them cooler, stylish and more 

entertaining than the original. The new black tactical design of 

Robocop is found to be acceptable and nice...the updated Robocop is 

more agile, flexible and stronger compared to the original. However, I 

personally find the right human hand to be slightly distracting. (I 

prefer no human hand at all, entirely machine except the face)



There's quite a lot of credible actors in this film: Abbie Cornish, Jay 

Baruchel, James Earle Haley, Gary Oldman, Michael Keaton and Samuel L. 

Jackson all providing decent performances to this remake. Although it's 

hardly a ground-breaking film or a masterpiece, Robocop is a decent and 

satisfying remake that delivers on many levels. There's currently no 

plot problems, inconsistencies or plot holes found in this film at this 

time of writing this review. So, it's good enough for a recommendation 

to watch it.



Rating: 7.5/10


