1
Whoever Owns the Film Rights to Philip K. Dick's Stories Should Be Ashamed!

The acting was mediocre. In one scene I even felt an actor was having
difficulty with his lines and that's annoying! What's even more
annoying is that the main "bad guy" is a depraved, Teflon-coated,
wonder woman who can easily beat the stuffing out of our hero, despite
the fact he also happens to be a professionally trained killer with
muscles the size of bowling balls. Throughout the entire movie, this
wonder woman just keeps coming back like a pesty stalker. Hardly
getting a scratch until the very end. I was even waiting for her to
start talking like Clint Eastwood! She also enjoyed explaining herself
too much and I was really hoping she would get dispatched ASAP because
her presence was undermining the entire story!I have to admit I cared about the good guys! I wanted them to win, but
unlike the first Total Recall, I didn't care nearly as much. In the
original film I desperately wanted the good guys to win! In the remake
my feelings were muted. After all the remake has been dumbed-down,
which makes it dull. Sure there's plenty of CGI eye candy and plenty of
Clone Trooper-type guys in body armor getting miraculously mowed down
at every corner. But the story is not edgy in the least! Unlike the
original Total Recall, where you really didn't know if the good guys
were going to win.And the remake has no message, unlike the original. The original was
about mind-bogglingly oppressive corporate greed and as a result you
felt a wide range of strong emotions! So much was at stake!I don't like it when a great story is reduced to so many campy clichés!
There was great tension building in the first half of the film only to
fall apart later! It's so obvious Hollywood focus-grouped the
screenplay to death in order to pander to the teen and pre-teen boy
segment of the movie going public! Too bad Philip K. Dick will be
spinning in his grave tonight. Whoever owns the film rights to his
stories should be ashamed of themselves and PLEASE make no more movies
if this is the best you can do! Try to protect the man's legacy,
instead!
