7
Tense and emotional

The Dwyer family; Jack, Annie, and their daughters Lucy and Beeze move
to a Southeast Asian country as Jack's company Cardiff offers him a
position on a new plant there. They meet Hammond on the plane. On the
airport Hammond, who's been there several times, has his local friend
Kenny Roger drive them to the hotel. At the hotel they find barely
anything works. The next morning Jack strolls out for a newspaper when
he suddenly gets caught in the middle of a riot between. Jack runs for
his life and sees rebels started killing locals and foreigners. At the
hotel gate Jack sees a Cardiff executive gets executed. The mob spots
him as he escapes up a fire escape. Jack finds Annie and Beeze. But
Lucy has gone to the pool so Jack goes to find her. Jack finds Lucy and
manages to get back to their room after escaping from rebels. They meet
Hammond at the stairs, who tells them to hide on the roof. A helicopter
flies above the roof. While the foreigners think it's a help, it
instead belongs to the rebels and a rebel inside it starts firing at
them. But it has its tail rotor tangled on some cables crashing it. The
rebels storm through the roof access barricade ans starts killing
everyone. Jack has Annie to jump to the next building's roof and then
he throws Beeze at her. When he throws Lucy, the girls freaks out
making them both almost fall. After Lucy gets thrown and Jack jumps
himself the rebel leader signs that they know Jack's face. The family
crawled one floor down and briefly rest as they hide. But the Jack
spots a tank readying its muzzle at the building. After the tank's
blast rebels pour in and kill everybody in the room but the family had
hid in a room nearby. After all clears out a lone rebel spots the
family and shouts to alerts his friends. But Jack hits him repeatedly
shocking both him and Annie. As nightfall comes they sneak out and try
to reach the US embassy. But the embassy proves a futile effort as Jack
sees all the Americans dead and an explosion rocks the building. They
then hides in a Buddhist shrine after pleading to the shrine keeper. Rebels storm in and push the keeper around. Jack goes for a rebel's gun
but when Annie sees he's almost noticed, she springs out of hiding,
drawing attention to her. She's about to get raped but Hammond and
Kenny come and shoots the rebels dead. Hammond brings them to a safe
place and tells Jack about the Vietnamese border down the river. Rebels
storm in at them but Hammond manages to kill most of them, although
Kenny gets killed and he gets wounded. He stays behind and covers the
family's escape with his own life. The Dwyers reach the river and Jack
trades his watch and shoes for a boat. But rebels catch up to them,
pinning Jack down. Lucy goes for his dad but the rebel leader snatches
her and forces her to shoot Jack, with a gun also pointed at her own
head. Annie runs and beats the leader to death while Jack catches the
gun and shoots the rest of the rebel group. The family then get in the
boat and paddles to the border. The border guards spot them and orders
them to stop. Jack pleads with them as more rebels come in. But the
river current has the boat moved to Vietnamese waters and the guards
threaten the rebels not to shoot, ending the family's ordeal.The background shows a different and slightly new perspective for a
thriller start point. Bringing Southeast Asia as opposed to the common
Middle East, Latin American or even African backgrounds really gave
something fresh to the take. The story also did well in divulging the
root cause of the problem as little as possible, enabling to focus more
on the action of thriller, preventing it from turning into a political
thriller.Focusing on family in premise of running from being killed is also
good. It moves away from those solitary or even couples characters
found in many thrillers. By incorporating this the movie has ample
space to push in emotional load. This emotional load nicely covers
what's missing on those action scenes which look less believable. The
scene where Jack throws Beeze and Lucy will feel very weird if it
didn't have any emotional load from the family viewpoint.The action scenes with pure action only comes as short bits. This is
good as not to take away the focus from the thriller and stands as
compliments to them. Yet they still feel a little awkward and soon get
predictable because they only appear when Pierce Brosnan comes on-
screen. It kind of puts the movie in a cliché as to the audience
thinking whenever the family gets really stuck, Hammond will come
bursting out of nowhere and save them.The acting overall is quite good. It's a very good take for both Owen
Wilson and Lake Bell. They both have sunk to their own respective
comedy roles for quite some time that some people in the audience gets
surprised that they can do non-comedy roles. I remembered Wilson's role
as quite engaging in "Behind Enemy Lines" and Lake Bell had one of her
first roles in "Pride and Glory". And their dramatic take here is
actually quite good. Together with the kids they can invoke the
emotional family relationship in the suspense scenes. Pierce Brosnan's
role was a nice nuance to the movie as a whole.A score of 7 out of 10 is from me for No Escape (2015), and a solid
recommendation to go see it in the movies. It's very entertaining,
especially for those of you who look for a new take on thrillers but
still demand the high intensity mood in it.
