9
I'm sure most practicing traditional Catholics will not like it, but I absolutely loved it!

'THE LITTLE HOURS': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five) A period comedy about a convent full of sexually deprived nuns, that
begin experimenting (for the first time) when a runaway slave takes
refuge at the convent. The film is based on the first and second
stories in 'The Decameron', a collection of novellas (published in
1886) written by Giovanni Boccaccio. The movie was written and directed
by Jeff Baena; who's helmed other indie comedies like 2014's 'LIFE
AFTER BETH' and 2016's 'JOSHY' (both also featuring Aubrey Plaza). The
film stars Aubrey Plaza (who also served as a producer for the film),
Alison Brie, Kate Micucci, Dave Franco, John C. Reilly, Molly Shannon,
Fred Armisen, Nick Offerman and Paul Reiser. It's received mostly
positive reviews from critics, and a limited indie theatrical release
at the Box Office. I think it's a hilarious movie! Alessandra (Brie), Fernanda (Plaza) and Ginerva (Micucci) are three
young nuns that are extremely unhappy with their convent life; and they
all obviously have much deeper desires. They're so unhappy that they
constantly harass men that work at the convent. After an employee (Paul
Weitz) quits, due to their constant harassment, a runaway slave, named
Massetto (Franco), takes his place; at the suggestion of Father
Tommasso (Reilly). Massetto also pretends to be deaf and blind, also
due to the priest's suggestion, and the young nuns decide to take
advantage of him, in order to explore their sexuality.Growing up Catholic, I'm always fascinated with movies that deal with
religion (and spirituality). This is a very dark, and quite crude, sex
comedy; that I'm sure most practicing traditional Catholics would not
enjoy. I found it to be hilarious though. It's honestly laugh-out- loud
funny for almost it's entire running length, and there's never a bad
joke (in my opinion). The cast is all fantastic in their roles, and the
subject matter is very interesting (and also quite timely) for almost
anyone (even if you've never been to church). It's almost a 5 star
movie for me, but not quite. I highly recommend it though.Watch an episode of our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/8sMDCYeQGPU
