3
Best porn movie ever!

It is a 2:04 hours movie.Take out all the scenes where they present you with genitalia and you
have a bit over one hour left. If it was a philosophical movie, perhaps
there would be a part of the sex sequences that carried more meaning -
but there is no such relief in this movie.We are presented with a stereotypical immature, selfish, arrogant,
possessive young male studying cinema in Paris - apparently only to get
stoned and laid. He meets this sweet, proactive, sexually empowered
young woman that also enjoys drugs. Not the least stereotypical, as she
falls for him with deep and unbridled love. His love is also deep but
he is the villain here, so he get as many other women as the time not
having sex with his official one allows.She notices it (who wouldn't, at this rate?) and tells him she also has
had her escapades. He makes scene after scene, including beating up her
lover (an ex- boyfriend). He tries to bully a police officer inside a
police station.She stands by him in another stereotypical situation.Then this monster gets the pretty blonde underage neighbour girl
pregnant. This is where she draws the line. Notwithstanding the fact
that she was the one that suggested they get another woman in bed.
Despite the fact that she made the move to invite the blondie.Then she goes down into a spiral of drugs and alcohol, shutting him off
her life completely.Once more, stereotypes.He keeps the blondie, they have a little boy (that he names after the
child he and the lost love dreamt to have together - stereotype,
anyone?) and, as he drags himself in a pool of self-pity and despair
(which does not go unnoticed by said blondie), comes the news that the
original girl has been missing for a couple of months.Then he spends a full day calling people to try and find her. In the
meanwhile, blondie leaves with the boy, telling him to finish his past
so they could have a future.Obviously, he doesn't find her - which doesn't preclude his opium-
induced dreams of her to interrupt all the time.There is a very awkward scene with him and the child in the bathtub,
after blondie's face tells us she will leave him.And the movie ends with him and original girl embraced under the shower
professing endless love and protection.Oh! Did I mention that it is partly filmed backwards, as 'Irreversible'
was? By the way, they used a very similar setting - an underground
passage - in one of the sequences. Check it out:
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0290673/?ref_=nv_sr_1 Or that this theme of
intense, destructive, drugged and short-lived love was way better
portrayed in 'More'? Also, a good part of the soundtrack comes from
Pink Floyd.... See it:
(http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0064694/?ref_=fn_al_tt_2In other words, apart from all the sex, this is a derivative, shallow
and unworthy movie...The '3' I gave the movie is for photography and soundtrack. Really good
in all scenes, conveys mood and context.The rest is crap.
