10
An Almost Perfect Movie

Ang Lee has done it again. Proving he is without a doubt one of the
best directors of our time. I really can't remember watching a movie
like this one, and maybe I just haven't seen enough movies, but I found
this an exceptional one of a kind movie. The things that this movie is
about is just so interesting, and the way it explores it's subjects is
just brilliant. Dealing with everything from, religion, survival, love,
and so much more. I remember thinking this movie was going to be boring, because I knew
most of it was going to be the main character alone at sea, with a
tiger. But it was one of the most interesting films I can remember
watching. The story was one of the best I have ever seen, it managed to
make me sad, happy, angry, and basically every emotion you can think
of. I can't think of any other movie that has made me think so
differently about life. Here is a short, and probably bad resume. The movie start by a young unknown author, interviews Pi Patel to find
out if he want's to write a book about Pi's adventures. But it almost
only focuses on Pi's life story. The movie is about an Indian boy who
lives in a zoo, one day his father decides to sell the animals, and
start a new life in Canada. On the boat going to Canada where both Pi
and his family and all the Zoo's animals are aboard, begins a storm
that eventually leads to the ship sinking. Pi amazingly survives and
finds a life boat, but soon he discovers he is not alone in the boat,
and has to face a tiger out on the middle of the sea. The movie focuses
on everything from survival to humans connection to animals and nature,
and so many things that I couldn't even begin to write about.I am sorry for the ones who don't like this movie but I just couldn't
find one bad thing to say about it, but I have also only seen it two
times. But I still think about as one of my favorite movies, and I
think even 1 viewing can do that. The special effects are amazing,
almost to the point, where you truly think that the tiger looks to real
to be animated. The acting is also amazing, and is part of making this
movie as good as possible. I am going to finish by saying that this is
one of my all time favorite movies, and I hope you will love it as much
as I do. 10/10
