1
This should have been called KRAPPUS

THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS RIGHT FROM THE START!!!Setting up a "horror" movie with a marketing campaign that screams
"HORROR MOVIE!", but then presenting us with a family friendly horror
movie in which the hero is a tween and everyone lives in the end is
just an extremely crappy thing to do!!! Of course, I should have seen
this coming from the guy who turned Superman into a sickeningly
lovesick, Lois Lane-stalking, peeping Tom with his "Superman Returns"
story. You know, the Man of Steel story that made "Superman 4: The
Quest for Peace" look like "Gone with the Wind"!NEWS FLASH, Mr. Dougherty - Horror films and family films DON'T MIX
WELL! Decide which one you're gonna make and stick with it.If you're going to make a movie in which the titular character is
historically known to be evil and merciless, then you should make the
frigging movie reflect what he is! Who frigging makes a PG-13 horror
film to begin with? This is like promising the public a "Halloween"
movie, but, your movie is about Michael Meyers prowling the
neighborhood tickling his victims instead of dismembering them!This wussy version of Krampus makes The Grinch look like Satan himself.However, the director did do a decent job setting the tone for a dark
horror film once Krampus arrives... but, then the movie pukes all over
the audience with no on screen violence or bloodshed and then a gang of
evil elves which is pretty much just a bunch of short actors in what
looks like unpainted Mardi Gras masks or something. To top it off,
Krampus, himself, never does any of the killing or physical violence –
he just looks like a fat, dirty, homeless, passive, evil leader. The
evil-doings are all handled through his evil minions: a Jack-in-the-
Box, a toy robot, a rabid teddy bear and a gang of gingerbread men.
Seriously?This movie starts with shoppers comically fighting for Black Friday
deals. And as the audience around me began to roar with laughter, this
was the point where I should have walked out, but they got my frigging
$10 so I figured I'd stay put and see if it got any better. NOPE, it
didn't!This entire movie is filled with senseless behavior, from utterly
retarded characters, that really only serves as weak plot devices to
get us from one scene to the next. Such as...We are presented with some of the most irresponsible parents in movie
history. Here's an example… A frigging mysterious blizzard of
historically epic proportions has appeared suddenly and from nowhere
(complete with strange snowmen cropping up in the front yard), and this
mother and father allow their young, teenage daughter to head out into
the blizzard from hell so she can walk several blocks away to her
stupid boyfriend's house all because she's worried that he hasn't
responded to her texts? But, wait, it gets dumber… when she hasn't returned after a couple of
hours, the mother gets concerned, but dad blows it off and says she's
fine, she's at her boyfriend's house. Does the writer even have kids?
If so, would he send them out into a blizzard like the one he created
in his story? If not, then why put it in the script just to separate
the daughter from her family so Krampus can make his first appearance
to the audience?It would have been more forgivable to have the daughter ask permission
to leave, have the parents say "Absolutely not", and then have her
sneak out of her bedroom window only to have mom and dad discover her
missing later. It's much easier to accept a rebellious child's behavior
in your script than a couple of retard parents who are so stupid as to
send one of their children into the freezing unknown to check on her
little, pizza-faced boyfriend. And then, there's the scene where one of the parents is helping two of
the kids escape into a truck, but, instead of climbing in with them,
she actually closes the door and tells her son she loves him right
before she's dragged away by a monster as her son watches in horror.AND THEN… as the parents try to fight off the onslaught of evil toys
and dumb crap with a couple of guns, we're subjected to the idiotically
clichéd "taking-your-time-to-pull-the-trigger-so-you-
can-make-a-stupid-wisecrack-but-something-else-happens-while-
you-were-wasting-your-time-talking-and-you-miss-your-shot" plot device.
This happens several times and is really annoying! It doesn't build
tension … it's really a sign of extremely weak writing. In fact,
everything about this movie is a product of weak storytelling skills.
How do you people even get these things financed?Then when we finally see Krampus up close, it is some of the worse
creature makeup I have ever seen on a big budgeted, highly anticipated
"horror" flick. The creature's mouth never closes, like a Halloween
mask - you couldn't even spring for some better effects? AND THEN… in the end, when all of the family members have been taken by
Krampus, the only survivor – the whiny, tween boy who summoned Krampus
- confronts the holiday demon and the demon actually has mercy upon him
and his family. And they all live – but trapped in a snow-globe? Total
crap!As a fan of horror – and an author of it, as well - I am thoroughly
disappointed.
