8
The 1973 mixed tennis match reflects America's current social politics

This replay of the 1973 tennis match between Bobby Riggs and Billie
Jean King serves as an ode to the America Donald Trump is killing — and
a prayer for its revival. The two leads' intros are revealing. Billie Jean appears as a montage
of action shots. Her vitality shows her as blur. Riggs paces alone in
his high, empty office tower, an ex-champ now a supernumerary for his
rich wife's father. Riggs itches to do something, anything, to recover
his lost glory, to reaffirm his superiority as a man. In his bragging, bluster, vanity, arrogance, misogyny, showmanship,
moral emptiness and ultimate futility, Riggs is a Trump figure. To
both, anyone afflicted with responsibility, modesty and humanity is a
loser. Riggs hijacks a Gamblers Anonymous meeting to nourish their
addiction, not to address it. His clowning barely conceals his lack of
self-respect and moral core. Against Riggs's transparent insecurity and empty macho strut, Billie
Jean projects a confident, competent, spirited servant to the public
good. She's an icon of two revolutions in America, that Trump is in the
process of reversing.Her revolt against the male-dominated tennis profession is an assertion
of women's right to equality, in treatment and in salary. Jack Kramer embodies male superiority. The women's purse should be one
twelfth of the men's even though the women's games attract equal
audiences. Kramer lives by that double standard, flattering women while
suppressing them. Their egos clash when Billie Jean refuses to play the big match if he
is Riggs's commentator on TV. Kramer claims she won't have the nerve to
abandon the match if he performs. She responds in kind: He won't have
the nerve to see it cancelled because of his refusal to step down. She
wins that one, then — spoiler alert — the match. She wins with precisely the qualities Kramer says women lack: physical
strength, the ability to perform under pressure, and control over her
emotions. Her post-game private weeping shows she has the emotions that
ennoble a woman — and the discipline to control them. She also has the
stamina and rigour Riggs's game lacks. Of course that calumny is what women continue to face in business,
politics, academia, wherever the fraternity is too frightened to give
women even a taste of the privilege and power they have traditionally
enjoyed. Remember Trump's mock concern over Hillary's stamina —then his
collapse into a golf cart at his first summit meeting. In the second revolution, Billie Jean's first lesbian affair emphasizes
her iconic role in sexual identity politics. As her gay designer
consoles her, soon America will let people like them love whom want to,
how they want to. A postscript details her activism for LGBT rights and
the close relationship she maintained with her ex-husband throughout
her later gay relationship. His swagger dissolved, Riggs is bolstered
by the return of his wife too. The designer's optimism proved true — for a while, until Trump's
current betrayal of the women and LGBT that as candidate he pledged to
support.As Riggs is portrayed here, he has one appealing quality Trump lacks.
Riggs acknowledges his needs. He knows he needs the thrill of gambling,
assurance that he's not just a kept man, his sons' respect and his
wife's — well, at least her presence. Trump is too childish to have
even that self-awareness. How will this film play? I think most viewers will enjoy the drama, the
humour, the emotional engagement. But there will remain that radical division between the conflicting
views of what exactly made America "great." Billie Jean's side will say
America was great for promoting equality, liberty, opportunities for
all, the right of everyone to realize what they individually are. From
the women's ambitions, independence, presumption, sexual freedom and
equality of rights, the Trump side will recoil in fear and disgust.
This vision of the States Formerly Known as United is how that 1973
mini-drama reflects and addresses America today.
