8
8/10

One of those select few thrillers that will have your eyes stuck to the
screen from the opening credits to the very end, and I mean that
literally: I changed my sitting position many times during the film,
yet I clearly recall never ever turning my head away from the film,
this is how intense it is.With this Denis Villenueve has now consolidated his name as one of most
important and gifted directors of our time and has shown us he is here
to stay. I truly marvel at how this film is so tightly put together and
even despite it faults, which it has, especially in script, it just
never gives you a chance to breathe and take it all in, thanks to the
atmosphere that is established from shot one until the last one, you
are always anticipating something's going to happen and that is the
sign you are watching a great thriller. You are always on the edge of
your seat and in some occasions you are really biting your knuckles.
The movie has a way to throw you into the action that is really rare to
find, especially in a highway sequence where I literally felt I was
there.All of this is achieved thanks to probably the best cinematography of
this whole year. Deakins does it again, once more playing with a lot of
blacks and shadows and once more succeeding one hundred percent. Also
remarkable is the use of helicopter shots which don't feel like
connective tissue, but actually part of the organic, that's something
really hard to pull off. The sound design of this film is flat out
amazing, some of the best I have truly ever had the pleasure to
experience. It is so in you face, so tight, it really contributes in
making you feel a part of this even in the more intimate scenes. Music
too is also excellent and while some may say it was a little too
ominous and dark I felt it matched the tone perfectly and enhanced some
parts magnificently, contributing to a nail-biting building of tension.Of course one couldn't get past reviewing this film without nominating
the three great performances at its center. Del Toro, Brolin and Blunt
are each better than the other and continue stealing the screen to
themselves scene after scene. There really isn't one stand out, the
three of them just excel sky high and give depth to characters that are
interesting. The characters are really what holds the film together,
they are truly developed three dimensionally and explored in depths
that aren't normally reached.What makes the film stumble is the fact that in never has a good enough
plot to make things as interesting as they should be. It really has a
hard time in setting up which way it's going and in the end it actually
doesn't end up with a satisfying resolution. You are certainly left
with something to think about because of the themes, the characters,
the atmosphere and the intensity, but all in all the plot doesn't offer
interesting turns and not enough moral questioning, unlike "Prisoners",
and so remains slightly one-note for the whole duration. It also has a
totally useless character in Blunt's partner, which other than never
understanding why he was there or what was his arch in the film, I
never understood how he was being played.Still there is nothing short of amazing in what Villenueve achieves in
two hours. What could have been a screenplay turned into a very generic
police drama, is actually one of the most atmospheric and tense movies
of the year.
