7
If this is the worst the Lego franchise has to offer, than it should be in good shape for a lot longer.

'THE LEGO NINJAGO MOVIE': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five)Another computer-animated spin-off (like 'THE LEGO BATMAN MOVIE', from
earlier this year) of the blockbuster animated hit 'THE LEGO MOVIE'.
It's based on the Lego Ninjago toy line, and it tells the story of six
teenagers living in the land of Ninjago, that must defend their home
from an evil warlord, by battling his monsters with robots and dragons.
The leader of the group also has to struggle with the fact that he's
the son of the evil conquering warlord. The film was written by a team
of nine different screenwriters, and it was directed by Charlie Bean,
Paul Fisher and Bob Logan (Fisher and Logan also served as two of the
writers). The movie stars the voice talents of Dave Franco, Justin
Theroux, Jackie Chan, Kumail Nanjiani, Fred Armisen, Abbi Jacobson,
Michael Pena, Zach Woods and Olivia Munn. It's received mixed (to
negative) reviews from critics, and it's also disappointed at the Box
Office as well (it's done much worse, financially and critically, than
the first two installments in the franchise too). I found parts of it
to be pretty funny, but given how good the other Lego movies are, it's
a pretty disappointing movie.Six young teenagers have been trained by a powerful ninja, named Master
Wu (Chan), to defend their island home of Ninjago, from an evil warlord
named Lord Garmadon (Theroux). They have normal high school lives, but
whenever Garmadon attacks, they must take on their secret ninja
identities, and do battle with him using the help of robots and
dragons. The leader of the group, Lloyd Garmadon (Franco), also must
deal with the fact that he's the son of the villain their fighting.
When Lord Garmadon learns that his greatest enemy is also his son,
things take a drastic turn. The ninjas also must defend Ninjago from a
giant destructive conquering cat.The movie is definitely funny, in multiple places, and the animation is
fun to watch too (like the other Lego films). It's also well cast, and
I'm sure kids will still enjoy it too. The film also drags a lot
though, in the middle of the movie at least, and some scenes just
aren't very funny (or interesting at all). Unlike the other two
franchise installments, the drama of the film didn't work for me at all
either. Still, if this is the worst the Lego franchise has to offer,
than it should be in good shape for a lot longer.Watch an episode of our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK'
at:https://vimeo.com/236806254
