10
Bold and Entertaining in equal measure, without skimping on the Food for Thought

Okja is the story of a girl and her mutant pig, the titular Okja, told
in the same vain as E.T. Or Pete's Dragon. But it's also a satire of
Corporate America, a heist film of sorts, and a expose on the moral
conflicts of food production. Now to some that sounds like a recipe for
disaster, but in the hands of Bong Joon Ho (One of the most exciting
directors working today, a statement further cemented by the quality of
Okja) it's one of the best films of 2017. Okja in all its brilliance,
might be Bong Joon Ho's most accessible movie yet, but it's also
probably one of the strangest things your likely to see all year. Here
Joon-Ho further demonstrates his mastery of his filmmaking craft,
effortlessly juggling tones and genres, composing scenes that brim with
drama and excitement , and leaving audiences with another multi-layered
commentary on capitalism. Where the film may loose some viewers is in
its tonal juggling and in a particular character. Firstly the films
tonal sifts are elliptical to say the least, transitioning between
outdoor adventure scenes, to low key drama, to high octane madcap
chases, to blistering satire, to emotionally grueling drama, and at one
point between heart wrenching thought provoking drama to slapstick
comedy within the same scene. Secondly Jake Gyllenhaal's performance,
as an unstable zoologist/television personality with a sweet tooth for
booze, (To put it mildly) is turned up to eleven in terms of emotions,
mannerisms, and delivery. Your reaction to this character might depend
upon your sensibilities. I've read several reviews that describe his
character as grating and unintentionally annoying, but I personally
found him to be alternately hilarious and pitiful. These factors might
be a turnoff to some of you, but to those who are sick of the overly
processed assembly line films that infest our modern multiplexes, Okja
isn't so much a substitute so much as a revelation, that big budgeted
auteur driven films are still plausible, and that films can entertain
us while still conveying a nuanced message. I can't recommend Okja
enough, see it, and even if you find yourself disappointed or baffled,
at least consider that it's something different from the over processed
soulless films that plague American Movie theaters at the moment.
