6
Wow! another Chucky movie!!

Loved how sick and psychotic this it started out. After the events of
Curse of Chucky, you would have thought Andy, the kid from the original
movie would have been done with his good guy doll ( I would have
assumed it's been over with him since Bride of Chucky since he was not
in it, but...). The problem is that he's still being hunted by the
ghost of Charles Lee Ray. But just like with the start of Bride, the Chucky era of this slasher
film franchise puts Andy as a back story to Nica, played by Fiona
Dourif (Who happens to be Brad Dourif's daughter (You know, the guy who
plays the voice of Chucky in all the movies (That's got to be a record
for slashers, right?). Nica who was in the last movie returns and was
put in a insane asylum because everyone (including herself) believes
that she made up the fact that a toy from the 80s was a killing
machine, but of course we know the truth, especially when Chucky comes
after her, and like with Bride of, he's not alone (Sort of)One of the factors of not using the title Child's Play anymore and
sticking with the Chucky titles is pointing out the sure camp that
Chucky has become. No longer scary or met to be scary, the movies are
fully fun to watch. Adding to the fun is the a fact that Chucky's doing
his killing in a confined space like a loony bin filled with, what's on
the surface, seems like helpless victims but deep inside are just as
derange as the monster itself.Cult of Chucky seems to focus on this factor a lot more. The actual
killing is inventive but not as awesome as I would expect of a Slasher
from the 80s (A bit of a mix of modern special effects with not so
interesting characters). It's got a psychological thriller edge to it
that makes it a better movie than any of the slasher horror parts, but
Chucky can still horrify you in the most demented way possible. After
all, it's a doll on a murderous rampage. So not a bad entry in the Chucky titled era of the Child' Play film
franchise. It's more for fans of the series which is great in this day
of nostalgia, very trivial,  but a lot of fun.http://cinemagardens.com/
