8
a clash of philosophies

Greetings again from the darkness. There seems to be no end to the
theories on how to be an effective parent and raise kids who are
productive, well-adjusted and successful. Writer/director Matt Ross
offers up a creative, entertaining and thought-provoking story of one
family's unconventional approach in a world that seems to expect and
accept only the conventional.We are first introduced to Ben (Viggo Mortensen) and his six kids as
they are stalking a deer while deep in the Pacific Northwest forest 
only this isn't your buddy's weekend deer hunting trip. Each family
member is covered head-to-toe in mud and other means of camouflage, and
the oldest son Bodevan (George MacKay) takes the lead with his knife in
what is presented as a rite of passage into manhood.The family carries out a daily ritual that includes extreme physical
conditioning, lessons on survival and living off the land, and advanced
education that includes reading such diverse material as Dostoevsky and
Lolita. Each evening is capped off with an impromptu musical jam. It's
evident that self-sufficiency, intelligence and family loyalty are
crucial to Ben's approach  an approach that is challenged when
circumstances require the family board their Partridge Family bus
(named Steve) and take a cross-country road trip into a civilization
that doesn't know what to make of them (and vice-versa).The film is jam-packed with social commentary on education, parenting,
societal norms, societal influences, and even grief. Who gets to decide
what is best for a family or what's the best method for education?
Sometimes the dysfunctional family isn't so easy to identify. Director
Ross proves this in a gem of a dinner table scene as Ben and the kids
visit Kathryn Hahn, Steve Zahn and their two sons in suburbia.In addition to the terrific performance by up-and-comer George MacKay,
the other actors playing the kids are all very strong and believable:
Samantha Isler as Kieyler, Annalise Basso as Vespyr, Nicholas Hamilton
as Rellian, Shree Crooks as Zaja, and Charlie Shotwell as Nai. Screen
vets Frank Langella and Ann Dowd bring presence to the role of their
grandparents and provide the greatest contrast to the off-the-grid
existence of the kids.Viggo Mortensen truly shines here and gives a performance full of grace
and depth as he displays many emotions (some of which aren't so
pleasant). He even goes full-Viggo for one of the film's many humorous
moments  though the comedy is balanced by plenty of full scale drama.
His best work comes in the scenes when he begins to question that there
may be some flaws in his plan  the moments of self-realization are
stunning.Many will note some similarities between this film and Little Miss
Sunshine (2006), though this one carries quite a bit more heft. It's
beautifully photographed by cinematographer Stephane Fontaine (A
Prophet, Rust and Bone) and captures the danger and solitude of the
forest, while also capturing the more personal family dynamics. It's a
film that should generate plenty of discussion, and one of the
questions is  will Noam Chomsky Day ever match Festivus in popularity?
