3
Ultimately a depressing and spirit-killing rag of a movie.

The movie is blah and pretty boring. There is zero chemistry between
the stars. The set director seems to think messy is what an authentic
apartment in the city looks like and the whoever was in charge of
wardrobe should be made to wear those hideous outfits for the next
year.The only reason this didn't get a one from me is that it really does
capture that "hometown in the big city" essence of some of the
neighborhoods in Chicago. The following contains general spoilers, not specifics.What really turned me off about this movie was that anyone thought this
story was inspiring enough to put it on screen. I was shocked when I
found out it was based proudly on a real story. Let me tell you I would
not want to know the woman who was the inspiration for Paige. The movie portrayed Paige after the accident, but they don't really
show us much of what she as like before the accident. The few glimpses
give us the impression that she was a woman who loved life and honored
the bond of marriage. I don't buy it. Losing your memory may change
things, but, it does not change your underlying personality. Paige
didn't turn into a selfish, uncaring _itch. She probably always was
one.A decent woman would have put some effort into recovering her marriage
and would have, at the very least, had some respect for the man she was
married to. This woman didn't care that she was ripping this poor man's
heart out. She cared for no one but herself. At least as far as the
movie was concerned, she never gave much thought to anyone but herself.
She was, after all, not the only one who was going through a traumatic,
life-changing experience and she was not the only one injured in the
car crash. If this story is actually true, my heart goes to the woman's
real family.This should never have been immortalized in film. It is the very
epitome of the "me" generation. The best part of the movie for me was when the end credits finally
started rolling so we could leave.
