5
This Jungle Book has nothing between its covers

Jon Favreau's Jungle Book exists in a world that is somewhere between
the animated feature film and the 1994, historically grounded, live
action film.The result is a beautifully bland movie. This is not a warm, well told
story, with interwoven charm and wisdom, it's an kid friendly
action/adventure in the jungle with lots of animated effects.I kinda knew it when I saw the trailers, but there is a strong vibe
that the Jungle Book would much rather be an experience, than a movie.
This means trimming all the juice out of the writing and characters
until you are left with that common feeling of being in a video game.There are far too many special effects, and they are distracting. Even
though there is nothing technically wrong with the CGI, the movie makes
some bad choices which destroys the illusion of having animals as real
as say the Tiger in Life of Pi. Like their animated counter parts, the
cast of this Jungle Book have animated lips, making them un-compatible
with the very real world they live in. There are also too many stagy
sequences featuring unrealistic numbers of animals, which in the 21st
century wouldn't even convince an eight year old that CGI wasn't
needed.The film makes another very poor decision to include two of the
original musical numbers but minus the one element that would make them
worth while; the actors can't sing. This brings me to the subject of
voice casting. The voice work across the board is surprisingly refined,
and uncharacteristic. Bill Murray as Baloo is everything that Baloo
should not be; dull, laid back, uninterested. Scarlett Johansson is not
remotely charismatic enough for the intoxicating Kaa the snake that she
inhabits, and Christopher Walken as King Louis produces a near
caricature of a mafia head.And then there is Mowgli. The decision to match his age to his animated
counterpart was a mistake. One of the themes of The Jungle Book is boy
to manhood. The climax of the film is also heavily depended on Mowgli
needing to be commanding and fierce enough to rally the jungle against
Shere Kahn. This ten year old boy who looks like he's reading off a
teleprompter half the time, is not that Mowgli. I kept hoping for a few good laughs in the picture, but I just saw
occasional attempts that fell flat. The strongest aspect is that when
it is not crammed with CGI animals The Jungle Book is quite beautiful
to behold. The problem is that like its protagonist, the camera is
always on the move, giving us no time to stop and smell the flowers.
Unlike in a Miyazaki movie, which will take its time to get you lost in
the wilderness, The Jungle is strictly 'cut-to-story'.If only there was a story to cut to. With its superficial,
effects-driven action sequences The Jungle might entertain some
children with ADD, but for the rest of us, the film is little more than
an elongated version of its trailer.
