10
The Theory of Everything

Before going into and seeing, The Theory of Everything, I really did
not know too much about Stephen Hawking. I of course knew who he was
and that he was a famous physicist for his work on black holes and
other such matters and I had also seen video clips and photos of him,
but really knew otherwise next to nothing about him and I have never
actually read any of his books, but after seeing the film I am a little
tempted and curious to do so, even if the subject matter does go over
my head a bit (I both did poorly and did not enjoy high school physics
class). On the other hand, those who go into The Theory of Everything,
looking for an elaborate account of Hawking's work and his science and
the method behind his work, then those people may be in for a bit of a
letdown as this story while it does focus on Hawking's life, it mostly
focuses on his long marriage and relationship with his wife, Jane, who
wrote the book on which the film is based on. The film focuses heavily
on the relationship between Stephen and his wife, Jane and the
hardships they had to deal with due to his various health problems that
he developed when they first become interested in each other till the
present time. Eddie Redmayne, who plays Hawking, does a phenomenal job
here. He starts out as a shy, somewhat bookish and nerdy student who
has a fair bit of humour to him and also has a love of education and
finding out the big questions and answers of the world. As his illness
develops and progresses over the years, we see how hard it is for him
to move, speak and just do everyday things whereas he is eventually
confined to a wheelchair and has to speak through a computer.
Redmayne's performance is so believable and must have been really hard
to pull off as we see him struggle to eat, walk, speak and just how he
twists his face and muscles and how much physical difficulty and pain
is involved in this as well as his strong desire to succeed and to
achieve more and more each day is evident in Redmayne's wonderful
performance which must have been exhausting and difficult to play, but
he does an excellent job here in what I think is one of the year's best
performances. Equally good here is Felicity Jones, who plays Jane.
While the role is not as demanding physically, it is more demanding
emotionally as we see her totally devote herself to all of Stephen's
every waking needs and how she went out of her way to both care and
love for him. At times it was certainly difficult and I am sure she
just wanted to give up, but we also as in him, see her determination to
make things work and she is an incredibly strong person and character
and you can see that everything she does has her full best and
wonderful intentions. Her performance is an emotional one and is
beautifully and brilliantly portrayed as well and is also one of the
year's best performances. When the film first started out, I thought it
would be a fairly safe and by the numbers biopic, but it really took me
by surprise at how interesting I found these characters, their lives
and the situations they found themselves in. Again because of the
brilliant performances and masterful script and direction we can both
care for and have empathy for these characters as well as personally
cheer them on and wish all the best for them as we are sitting quietly
in our theatre screens glued to the screen with captivation and
interest. The film has an excellent pace to it and works well as a
biographical film, but works even better as a story of love and the
difficulties and sacrifices it took to make it work and just how strong
both Stephen and his wife are at the end of this film after all they
have gone through. It really is an inspirational and feel good film
when you think about it after all they accomplished and went through.
Sure there are moments of heartache and when we see them suffer, but it
is not all grim. We also see moments of happiness and how these two,
from the second they met, really do love each other and had a marriage
full of trust and devotion to one another. The film is doing well in
limited release and expanded wider in theatres this week and I feel
very privileged to have been able to see it on the big screen. It is
thoroughly fascinating from start to finish and features two of this
year's most believable and best performances and also gives us hope and
encouragement while we may be not exactly in their same circumstances,
but for other things as well. The Theory of Everything, is a real
triumph and one of the best films of 2014.
