6
dame judi does it again

Greetings again from the darkness. Director Stephen Frears has enjoyed
a long career by focusing on the interesting stories of people, rather
than the salient specifics of history or politics. He received Oscar
nominations for THE QUEEN and THE GRIFTERS, and helmed other
crowd-pleasers such as MRS. HENDERSON PRESENTS, PHILOMENA, HIGH
FIDELITY, and FLORENCE FOSTER JENKINS. While purely entertaining movies
are always welcome, it's important to note the filmmaker's approach
when the story is entwined with historical importance. "Based on real events … mostly" is Mr. Frears' cutesy way of kicking
off the film and asking us to enjoy the unusual story of connection
between a Queen and a servant, and cut him some slack on the historical
depth. For most of us, the real enjoyment will be derived from watching
yet another standout performance from Oscar winner (and 7 time nominee)
Dame Judi Dench as the longest-reigning monarch, Queen Victoria in her
elderly years. It's a role she played twenty years ago in MRS. BROWN,
and her relationship with John Brown (presented in that film) has some
parallels to what we see here with Abdul Karim (Ali Fazal). Dame Judi
is the rare actress who can capture both the loneliness and tiresome
burden of six decades of rule and the re-invigorated woman we see
learning a new language and new religion. She plays weary and spunky
with equal believability.Victoria was Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland
and Empress of India, and in 1861 her beloved husband Prince Albert
died. This film picks up in 1887 with the pomp and circumstance of the
Golden Jubilee – a celebration of her 50 years of rule. The early
scenes tease us with obstructed views, and the comedic element becomes
quite obvious as we see her so carelessly slurping her soup at the
formal lunch. Part of the celebration includes the presentation of an
honorary coin by two Indians peasants Abdul (Fazal) and Mohammed (Adeel
Akhtar), the first chosen because of his height, and the second as a
last minute fill-in. Lee Hall (Oscar nominated for BILLY ELLIOT) wrote the screenplay based
on the book by Shrabani Basu. The journals of Abdul Karim were only
discovered in 2010, a hundred years after his death. Some of the less
favorable moments of this era are mentioned, but most of the Queen's
lack of knowledge or awareness is attributed to the "boring" reports
from her advisers. This leads to some awkward moments later in the film
regarding the Muslim mutiny and the subsequent Fatwa.Rather than dwell on history, the film prefers to focus on the
unconventional friendship and the re-awakening of the Queen. Abdul
becomes her "Munshi" – a spiritual adviser and her teacher of Urda and
the Koran. As you would expect, this is all quite scandalous and
frustrating for those such as Prime Minister Lord Salisbury (Michael
Gambon), Lady Churchill (Olivia Williams), Victoria's son Bertie (Eddie
Izzard), and the royal staff: Sir Henry (the recently deceased Tim
Pigott-Smith), her physician Dr Reid (Paul Higgins), and her quivering
maid Miss Phipps (Fenella Woolgar). There is even a comical sequence
with the great singer Puccini (Simon Callow) as the Queen herself belts
out the Gilbert and Sullivan song "I'm Called Little Buttercup". Balmoral, the Isle of Wight, and Windsor Castle are all part of the
breath-taking scenery, while the absurdity of the royal status is
viewed through the eyes of the Indian servants. Most of the focus is on
Victoria's transformation from joyless, isolated monarch to the
anything-but-insane (an Oscar worthy scene) and eager to engage elderly
woman (one who has an entire era named after her) falling back in love
with life as she fights off "the banquet of eternity". Come for the
laughs and the performance of Dame Judi … just not for a history
lesson.
