6
Well Done Mr. Perkins!

The Blackcoat's Daughter, or originally titled February is the first
feature film from Oz Perkins, and it's warmly welcomed and loved if you
love a slow- build horror in the likes of It Follows, The Babdook, The
Tall Man, or recently surprise hit The Witch. This film follows the
same beat, while not necessarily executing it in a lively fashion it
does deserve to stand on it's own merit.Winter break is approaching so the students of Bradford Academy are all
leaving to rejoin their parents over the two weeks... Expect for the
exception of Kat (Kiernan Shipka) truly haunting each time on screen;
and Rose (Lucy Boynton) who are forced to await the arrival of their
parents who mysteriously fail to retrieve them. With their time spent
there, we also meet Joan (Emma Roberts) another kindred soul trudging
her way to the unknown. And thus, begins our film... A look at three
different woman bound by a constant fear, ever present throughout the
film.For a first time director, Oz gracefully masters the camera as he
glides slowly across the scenery meticulously acknowledging every
shot... From a long tracking shot down a dark hallway to the swinging
of a door in the wind. Every detail cleverly puts you on ease as you
await the next scene. Kiernan Shipka controls the screen as she
chillingly embodies the physical turmoil of an adolescent girl confused
and unsure of herself... The rest of this little cast are also good...
with the exception of Emma Roberts showing us that she can also do more
than American Horror Story or Scream Queens. While good, the film does
fall in structure during it's second act and end as we never truly
understand the intentions of our characters or simply where the movie
is headed... while the tone stays the same... haunting and melancholy.
The film can loose you if you are not truly invested during it's final
two acts.Overall, The Blackcoat's Daughter is a well crafted horror that
cleverly cuts between three characters while still juggling the fact
that it is indeed a slow-burn horror well worth your time and money.
