10
Stylish, gritty and watchable multiple times

This movie is awesome.Plot: A M16 spy Lorraine Broughton portrayed by Charlize Theron is sent
into Berlin, in the wake of the Berlin Wall's fall to retrieve a list
containing the names of every double agents' identities. The concept is
not entirely original, since the movie is actually based on Anthony
Johnston's graphic novel "Coldest City". I don't care if the narrative
isn't intuitive enough, because the movie was through and through very
enjoyable Acting: One of the strongest and best aspects of this movie
is the acting. By far, I think this is THE most impressive presentation
by Charlize Theron. Not to mention, James McAvoy nails in a enigmatic
yet charming performance. Sofia Boutella is also here, and after that
not so appealing Mummy reboot, her character here is much more
tolerable. Charlize shows some naive and seriousness, which sparks some
James Bond vibes in some scenes. Also people saying she's the female
Bond are totally right: this one's just a bit more cooler and fancier.Oh and yes the lesbian sex scene used as a marketing scheme does appear
in the movie. For those interested, it's pretty sensual.Cinematography: Nowadays action movies just create the illusion that
something intense and exciting is happening. Not Atomic Blonde. The
fight scenes are one of the best in a while and pepper the movie just
fine. The camera actually stays still and captures all possible angles.
One of the fights is actually an about 3 minute long take. 3 minutes
non-stop one take fighting. And that is Charlize Theron doing all of
that. Superb commitment.Score: Yeah you heard it probably. A mix of 80's hits with Tyler Bates'
original tracks. There's George Michael, Re-Flex, Depeche Mode, David
Bowie and many more. The music might sound wrong in someone's ears, but
didn't for me. I enjoyed it, and even now I'm listening to the
soundtrack as I'm writing this.Ending: I was disappointed, but let it slide. I was expecting much
more. If there's an alternate one, I'd stick with that.Overall: One of the most best action movies and movies of 2017. Easily
goes into my Top 10 list. I had to go into a morning showing to
actually see it, and it was damn worth my beauty sleep. I give it
10/10. Masterpiece.
