4
Bourne gets a calculator

This movie has a lot of flaws. The script is rambling, the sequencing
not coherent, the portrayal of autism stereotypical and, worst of all,
it has Anna Kendrick in it.Affleck does his best to portray the 'dead on the inside' accountant
who just wants to feel and be loved. But, the messy story line and the
altogether silly arc of the narrative left me thinking 'Just another
bad movie you're in Ben...ya need to stop and think really hard before
you agree to the next project'. Because, from his (let's say) 'crowning
achievement' of Argo (which left me 'Eh!' for the record), Affleck has
slowly slid down into roles that any guy over six feet tall and broad
at the beam could have played. It would be churlish to say that, like
his old chum, Matt Damon, Affleck is trying too hard to be part of a
franchise action series like the 'Bourne' movies. (Though, 'The
Accountant' left us in no doubt, like Arnie, he'll 'be back').
Nevertheless, this is just another pot-boiler action movie along the
lines of so many others that take up space at the cinema and,
unsurprisingly, do very well there too. So, 2017...book your seats for
'The Accountant 2...Payback'.There is a well honed cast of supporting actors here. JK Simmons is
good, though not great and must have choked on some of the lines he had
to say. John Lithgow earned his keep (though from scene 1 he appeared
in, we knew he was the bad guy...pantomime boo hiss). Cynthia
Addai-Robinson tries really hard to be convincing in her role as a put
upon special agent though, she fails. And the great Jeffrey Tambor is
on screen for too little time to value the appearance and contribution
of such a fine actor in this rambling story. Where it all really does
fall apart is when Ana Kendrick appears on screen. Seriously? You
expect us to take her seriously? For sure there are a lot of actors
appearing in movies who got there by luck and not by talent but, she
can't act. She can't do it. I mean, look...she cannot act! Now, before
anybody goes haywire at me for praising some male actors here and
appearing derogatory to the two female characters in this movie, I
should add...Cynthia Addai-Robinson was great, I mean really great, in
Luc Besson's/Olivier Megaton's 'Colombiana' a few years back. She did a
really fine job in that movie. But, Anna Kendrick? Jeez, she stank in
'Up In The Air' (playing the same character as in this movie); she
stank in '50/50' (playing the same character as in this movie); she
stank in the truly awful 'Mr. Right' (playing the same character as in
this movie) and she is currently involved in 'Pitch Perfect 3' (God
help us all) which we all know will stink to high Heaven. In short,
she's the luckiest, most talent-less actor out there right now. For
one, I have no idea how she got there.But, to finish on the only noteworthy thing in this movie. Jon
Bernthal. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the presence of a film star.
Even though a lot of what he had to do was clichéd nonsense (the good
guy/bad guy gangster type), he did it all with absolute conviction.
This meant that his performance was, by far, the only credible
character in the whole powder-puff that is 'The Accountant'. (Immediate
disclaimer - the incongruous and plain silly ending he had to cough the
last lines out of remains just that, incongruous and plain silly). But,
he's a genuine star and I hope to see much more of him in better movies
than this.All in all, 2 hours passed. 4 out of 10
