2
A film half finished.

I would like to say that I mean no disrespect to Paul Thomas Anderson.
His contribution of "Magnolia" and "There Will Be Blood" to the world
of cinema have been more than enough to forever place him permanently
on the top 100 greatest filmmakers of all time list. These two
masterpieces also forever forgive him for making his one great stinker,
"Punch Drunk Love."Well, he made another stinker here with "The Master," make no mistake
about it. Here's a few thoughts on this film (which I'll say is worth
seeing, unlike Punch Drunk Love).The acting is brilliant on all accounts. I think 90% of directing is
casting, so PTA hit this one out of the park. All the other departments
of the production were right on; but the most important department, the
story portrayal, was just disregarded, almost offensively so. "The
Master" is a great character piece. The actors did their homework. But
the film is one giant character study- but with no coherent story. There's no spoilers in this review, because there's nothing to spoil.
So I can't even go into the details if I wanted to. This movie is about
a series of subplots that meander into nothing- juxtaposed with random,
unmotivated nudity, and intense scenes where Joaquin Phoenix either
beats someone's ass or you think he's going to beat someone's ass. Paul
Anderson spends roughly 55% of the screen time developing the character
of Lancaster Dodd (P.S. Hoffman) as this great writer, persuasive
teacher and potential cult leader (much like L.Ron Hubbard), and
then... "ffffttt." The other 45% of the film is spent very deliberately
developing the character Freddie Quell (J. Phoenix) as a tormented
raging alcoholic and disillusioned Navy vet... which also leads
nowhere. Dodd tries to mentor Quell who desperately needs help- and he
doesn't really succeed. Phil Hoffman starts to get a cult like
following, gets arrested for something unclear, and so does Phoenix for
resisting Hoffman's arrest, then poof- they're both out of jail and
nothing is explained. The two men separate briefly, and Hoffman winds
up in Europe and asks Phoenix to join him there. Phoenix joins Hoffman.
Hoffman warns Phoenix never to leave again. Then Phoenix leaves and
winds up on the beach caressing a naked female sand castle (mirroring
the first scene in the film where Phoenix is molesting a naked female
sand castle). The film ends here. This is why I say it's a film half
finished. Sure there was complexity and duality in the twisted past of
Phoenix and the intelligence of Hoffman's character; but none of it
matters, because there's no payoff for any journey the characters go
on. At the end of the day, it was just about Hoffman mentoring Phoenix
off and on, and the two men loving and hating each other. That's it.
(The great Amy Adams was poorly used in the film- and doesn't deserve
mention)It's a familiar trend with Hollywood these days: The characters are
fantastic but the story is unexplored and unmotivated. If PTA hadn't
wrote and directed this, I would maybe give it a 4 or 5, as the casting
was so strong. But a story-less movie can only be a maximum of 5 on my
IMDb rating scale, even if Stanley Kubrick himself made it and sent it
to us from the great beyond. This film had many great attempts at
taking you on a journey, but always dropped the ball at every
opportunity of beat, and started new, random, and unconnected threads
that didn't mean anything. I don't buy the "it's an art film" b.s... or the idea that it's s a
"subjective piece" that should be interpreted differently for everyone.
That's horse crap- and the people who wrote the 9 and 10 star reviews
know it. They are just under the spell of Hoffman's tremendous stage
presence. Because let's face it, without Hoffman, this film doesn't
work. We all know the ability Paul Anderson has to tell a profoundly
original story while still being surreal, and using music to motivate
plot turns. The "Lets be surreal just for the sake of being surreal"
method doesn't work for him. Sorry Paul, you're not a Warhol, Lynch, or
Von Trier- why even try? The subjective 2001 Space Odyssey films have
been made already. We're bored of people imitating that. (at least I
am). "The Master" is supposed to be based on John Huston's "Let their be
Light" and loosely influenced by L. Ron Hubbard and the rise of
Scientology, much like "Citizen Kane" was supposed to be about William
Randolph Hearst. But try as it did, this was just a train wreck from
the start. At no point did you get the feeling of a Scientology-esc
uprising... or any kind of an uprising whatsoever. At least have the
courage to show the cult rise to power- or come out and say that
Hubbard was a frickin nut case. At least that would be saying
something. This film says nothing. It keeps you guessing, and it's a
huge let down when you realize the film is going to do the pretentious
art thing and not explain anything. I don't know guys. I would wait for Netflix or Redbox on this one.
Unless you enjoy paying a lot of money to be bored in public, with a
few hundred strangers, all pretending to be blown away by
nothingness... constantly waiting for the genius character performance
of Hoffman and Phoenix to be engaged in a story. Why tease yourself?
