1
The most epic failure

The nutshell people, is this: the screenwriter, director and producer
all fail to grasp the existential nature of Kerouac's writing which
was, and still is, its whole point.To get the novel you need to blur your focus slightly, think about the
more esoteric and the context of the time of when it was written.
Kerouac put forth his own personal spiritual reality and also that of
the spiritual connection between himself and other characters without
implying how he, or the reader, should be thinking or feeling which
leaves the reader resonating with philosophical questions. Does
anything mean anything? Does loving someone who doesn't return that
love mean anything? What is love? Are we just pawns in a greater
spiritual reality? Should we care? If so, why?The book and these questions were part of a spark that started a shift
towards youthful self-consciousness, greater questioning of western
life and human realities that has endured to the present day. This aspect of Kerouac's work is the quintessential element his
admirers praise and respect him for and this movie fails completely to
illustrate this most important part. In fact it seems as though it was
not even attempted or omitted on purpose. The movie also fails to illustrate the broader context of the time it
was written as well: the concept of piercing through the two
dimensional American cultural reality of the time and breaking through
into a freer space, rebelling against the rules society has laid down
for you and in turn sparking thoughts in people's minds of how the
future could be one where minds were more open, standards were
questioned and prejudices overcome. This same shift in thinking and
questioning contemporaneous norms added fuel to the fires of the Civil
Rights Movement and the Anti- War Movement. Kerouac was someone who
helped spark a wave that reached its peak in the late 60s over a decade
after the publishing of On The Road but disappointingly you will get
none of this from the movie. Instead, this movie stands for everything the book doesn't; a dressed
up, soulless vacuum of a period piece that doesn't really go anywhere
with any discernible purpose. It alienates the viewer within the first
half dozen scenes instead of drawing them in with that friendly 'best-
buddy-you-never-had' Kerouac familiarity. Many people new to the Beats and to Kerouac will leave this movie
feeling that they just don't get what all the fuss was about and that's
because this movie goes nowhere near doing justice to either of these
institutions. For Kerouac 'true believers' (of which I am obviously one) who respect
the importance of his work, this movie will be an affront as it is
brought to the screen by people who were not capable of representing
him or the work on screen.For road trip fans this movie will hit most of the right buttons and
therefore there will be some positive reviews as you see here. My feeling is that regardless of previous achievements and my
overwhelming respect for producer and director, the makers of this film
should be ashamed of themselves in bringing this movie to the screen
without capturing the soul of the book and the man who wrote it. You
can only assume that they didn't get that aspect or chose to leave it
out because it was too hard to realise. However, I simply cannot
believe Coppola viewed this film in its entirety prior to release and
Salles seems to have over-estimated his ability to turn this seminal,
universal masterpiece into a movie. It simply just isn't worthy.
