7
Good entertainment

I really like this movie, which works very hard to present an authentic
and thoughtful account of the mad 1973 tennis match in which top
women's player Billie Jean King played the much older former men's
champion Bobby Riggs. I still prefer the 2013 documentary, simply
because, for once, what happened in real life was engrossing and
entertaining enough and didn't need the Hollywood treatment. This film
has many good qualities, including the understated yet vivid period
clothes and locations. I love the scene where the senior women players
are eating chips and smoking in a diner, and no one cares - that
wouldn't happen in these health-conscious times. Also the sign of a
good movie is that the supporting actors are all excellent, from Sarah
Silverman as the women's tour director Gladys Heldman, to Alan Cumming
as British tennis fashion designer Ted Tinling, and Elisabeth Shue, as
Bobby's wife Priscilla Riggs. In particular, Austin Stowell, as Billie
Jean's husband, Larry King, deserves an award for nailing his difficult
role as the husband having to cope with his wife's feelings for her
hairdresser Marilyn. Billie Jean and Larry are still affectionate to
one another but Stowell is able to convey several stages that Larry
goes through in response to the situation. Steve Carell is probably the
perfect actor to play Bobby Riggs - goofy and driven and needing to be
the centre of attention. The role was really made for him, although in
the 2013 doco you can see that the real Bobby was even more over the
top. The movie version goes further than the doco in saying Bobby had a
serious gambling problem. But overall the movie gives an affectionate
depiction of Riggs. Ironically, his match with Billie Jean served to
bring the women's movement into the public eye. Interestingly, Bobby's
motivation for staging the match is depicted more as coming from his
own attention seeking antics, and desire to make money, than misogyny.
But other people, such as the male executives running the tennis tour,
clearly are misogynists. There's a great scene when Billie- Jean and
Gladys make very logical arguments to the executives that women attract
the same crowds as men, so why don't they get the same income? The
executives can only mumble that 'women are less strong and skilled than
men', and that 'men are the bread winners and need to earn more'. The
other top women's player of the era, Margaret Court, is depicted as the
villain of the movie, sulking around hotels with her husband and baby
while the other women players pass her in groups. I felt that maybe the
film's writers treated her a little harshly. She was very conservative,
that's true, and has come under heavy criticism for her views lately.
The 2013 documentary depicts how Riggs psyched-out Court to defeat her
before the King match - he defeated her mentally. The movie strangely
didn't pick up on this point. Instead, Court is shown just playing
badly. I felt Emma Stone did well in her role playing King - later in
the movie she got a bit over-emotional, but generally she was
convincing. You really understood what a difficult situation King was
in when she explained to her lover Marilyn that her parents will disown
her and she may lose her career of she comes out as gay. I'm glad King,
in real life, has finally got recognition for her great courage and
hard work in creating a new women's tennis tour, and for campaigning
hard for equal pay for women, even though that's only started to be
introduced in recent years. She was such a strong person, aside from
being obviously a gifted tennis player..
