8
A colorful fairytale adaption

From the very start of the film, the audience can tell its in for a
visual treat. "Mirror Mirror" opens with the queen giving the story
background (which is shown by porcelain dolls; a very creative choice
on the director's part). The film never lacks in taste or boring sets.
From the town to the castle to the forest, stunning costumes and lavish
sets abound. The script suffers a bit here and there. The film may have been better
off without the occasional rude humor (thanks one hundred percent to
the dwarfs). The queen contributes to most of the humor with her grand
ability to spit sarcasm and one liners with little effort. Julia
Roberts fits into her character beautifully. Armie Hammer and Lily
Collins make convincing characters as the prince and Snow White. I must
add though, the film goes by at a rather slow pace. A minor complaint
but worth mentioning. Quite possibly my favorite thing about "Mirror Mirror" is the
presentation of the Mirror. The director gave us the last thing we
would expect for the Mirror (It resides in a shack in the middle of
lake which is in the actual Mirror). Five star representation in my
opinion. The film also noticeably twists the classic story by having Snow White
save the prince from a rather interesting (ahem... embarrassing) spell
with a kiss. Unlike other feministic films of late (most noticeably
Alice in Wonderland), the film quenches the blatant feminism themes
with a wonderful old fashioned fairy tale. The critics like to call out
"Mirror Mirror" for lacking a unique touch or individuality. I would
argue that the film's unique touch is its over-the-top sets and
costumes and why would we want something different than a an classic
fairy tale. I would also argue in favor of the Bollywood-esque ending. The song and
dance compliments the film with a magical touch. In conclusion, the film does have its minor downsides but remains a
classic film worth remembering. "Mirror Mirror" outshines Disney's
"Enchanted" and "Alice in Wonderland" in fairy tale scale and no film
can match its grand opulence.
