9
Cements Paul Thomas Andreson as the most consistent director working today

In a broad sense, The Master tells the story of a soulless drifter,
Freddie Quell (Joaquin Phoenix,) constantly drunk and with no purpose
in life, finding sanctuary in the company of The Cause, a cult-like
group lead by a charismatic intellectual, Lancaster Dodd (Philip
Seymour Hoffman.) This plot description does not do the film full
justice, because with this film, Anderson fully releases himself from
the constraints of traditional narrative storytelling. The film is told
in a stream-of-consciousness style, loosely linking together vignettes
and moments from the time these two men spend together, without any
sense of "drive," "purpose" or "goal" in the traditional screen writing
sense. It is a style perfectly befitting the emotional and spiritual
state of the main character, Freddie, adrift in life with no anchor or
sense of purpose of his own. Throughout the film, Anderson occasionally
cuts back to a shot of the wake of a slow-moving ship, placing us, the
audience, aimlessly drifting through the narrative, just as Freddie is.
What results is a series of scenes, snapshots of events, some
narratively linked and some not. The film is very subjective, and puts
us squarely in Freddie Quell's mind; as a result, no easy answers are
given, many questions remain mysteries, and we never get a firmly
grounded sense of reality; many events remain ambiguous and keep us
wondering as to their fidelity long after the film is over.The Master is Anderson's most cinematically humble film yet. Gone are
the sweeping camera moves, rapid-fire editing and high style of his
previous films; even the slow, meticulous, beautifully lit tracking
shots of There Will Be Blood are gone. Instead, Anderson submits to a
wholly utilitarian shooting style, only moving the camera when
necessary to capture action in the shot, and using formal framing
techniques and naturalistic (but still very beautiful) lighting to
comment on the characters' internal states. That said, it would be
impossible to talk about the film's visual style without commenting on
Anderson and cinematographer Mihai Malaimare Jr.'s decision to shoot on
65mm film. This film stock, especially when projected in 70mm, provides
the film with an unprecedented sense of clarity and sharpness. The 65mm
lenses provide a very unique and distinctly shallow depth of field that
adds to the dream-like quality of the film, and helps emphasize the
isolation the characters feel. It would be a crime to watch the film on
any other format.All this discussion about non-narrative elements, thematic overtones
and film formats is not to minimize what is possibly the film's
crowning and most long-lasting achievement: the performances. Philip
Seymour Hoffman, one of the most consistent performers working today
and an Anderson regular, delivers another powerful, charismatic
performance in line with his turn in Doubt. It is, for the most part,
an effectively subtle performance, maintaining a controlled dignity
peppered with the occasional outburst. Amy Adams delivers a similarly
dignified performance. Her character is mostly quiet, observing from
the sidelines, but she has her moments to shine in the aforementioned
private scenes between her and Lancaster, in which she completely
dominates him. But the highlight of the film is without a doubt Joaquin
Phoenix's tremendous performance as Freddie Quell. Over the years,
Phoenix has, without much fanfare, slowly but surely cemented himself
as one of the best actors working today, with powerful turns in many
varied films, from his deliciously villains turn as emperor Commodus in
Gladiator to his quiet, grave personification of Johnny Cash in Walk
the Line. Now, after a four-year absence from narrative films, he
returns with what is undoubtedly a career best performance, and one
that, with any luck, will win him a much-deserved Oscar. His utter and
complete immersion in the character of Freddie Quell has to be seen to
be believed. His back hunched, swinging his arms like an ape, his frame
thin, his face twisted and distorted, mumbling and slurring his speech
out of the corner of his mouth like he is just learning how to behave
in society for the first time, and failing. And Phoenix' physical
commitment to the performance doesn't stop there, either: he flings
himself into scenes of raw violence that look and feel completely real.
It is a crowning achievement in the art of acting and "the method,"
rivaling that of Daniel Day-Lewis in Anderson's previous film, and it
further cements the biggest difference between Anderson and Stanley
Kubrick as directors: Where Kubrick is known for his actors' cold,
removed performances, Anderson has become the most consistent source
for high-caliber Acting with a capital A.It's hard to really explain what makes The Master work even though it
lacks many traditional narrative elements that provide most other films
with powerful drama, closure and immediate gratification. It's a very
subjective experience, and I'm sure many viewers will have difficulty
immersing themselves in the film without the typical sense of narrative
progression and character goals. For this reason, The Master is
probably Anderson's least accessible film. That said, I think it is a
testament to Anderson's enormous intellect and directorial abilities
that he managed to capture the attentions and fascination of so many
viewers and critics. He certainly won me over; although I had more
visceral and immediately satisfying reactions to Anderson's previous
films, I find that The Master lingers on long after the lights went up
in the theater. The film's intellectual ambitions, along with its very
unique, eerie tone, will keep me mulling over the experience for days
to come. Already I feel the urge to re-visit it and attempt to uncover
more of the film's secrets. And that right there is a telltale sign of
an instant classic film in the making.
