9
Unfortunate this movie is getting so many negative reviews and comments

I've been reading many reviews and the discussion boards on this site,
and after just coming back from enjoying it, I was very disappointing
to see so many negative reviews and comments. I'm definitely going to
be responding to some comments in the discussion boards from some
specific details of the movie, but for now I will just write a review.
And a positive review since there is so many haters out there.Firstly I have to say I am a big fan of sci-fi and specifically time
travel. And as a huge fan I can see how since you're doing a
movie/story about something that doesn't exist, or something we don't
understand, of course there will be some plot holes and always ask,
"why didn't he do this" or, "why couldn't they do that" or "he could've
just done this" but being a film with only so much time to tell this
unique story I think it did a great job with it. It takes a black-noir
sort of character and puts him in the year 2044, where time travel
hasn't even been invented yet but eventually does and used by only
secret criminal organizations. These organizations seem to gather
future "trash" and are disposed by loopers who are told to wait at a
specific time and wait to pull the trigger. Which so happens to be our
protagonist (who suspiciously reminds me of Max Payne). Now the kind of
people that are sent back in time to be killed by "loopers" (yes there
is more than one), we are given no prior knowledge of who they were or
what they have done. What I really enjoyed was the fact of, what they
considered is bad? Who deserved to die? Anyway we are given a few glimpses of how the rest of the city looks in
this time and how a first world country in some parts, looks like a
third world country in others. People thrive on scraps, constantly
stealing from one another and just surviving. While the rich are
comfortable and most probably criminals or in some way affiliated with
the crime land. Now I know this can be considered very cheap and
cliché, but clichés are clichés for a reason. It's supposed to show how
the world is brought down by it being run by criminal minds. People
from the future who come from the past to make the past "better" and
how these people are ignored for rich people to think of themselves.
Which was the point of the movie, because when you are talking about
changing the future, do you want to change the future to make it better
for you? Or for the rest of the world? This would make more sense to
people who have seen this movie, but for those of you that haven't, I
just hope you don't read a lot of these "reviews" and decide not to
"waste your money." It talks about time travel, different dimensions
and for being a time travel movie leaves very little holes (of course
they are some but it's inevitable in a sci-fi). I can't finish this review without saying how great the cinematography
of this film was. At time you could just feel how the character was
feeling, when he was giving narrating sections while showing all he did
was murder faceless people, over and over. And he actually has plans,
and start to care for who he is and what he becomes. I could probably talk about this movie all day, but I don't want this
review to be a novel, so I'll finish it here but my main objective of
this review is for people not to miss out on this great movie, as the
acting is top notch and at some part comical, with a great new actor
who is no older than 10! How the director makes Joseph Levitt's
character act like Bruce Willis and either Rian or Joseph does a great
job depicting it, it's as if I was listening and watching Bruce Willis
most of the film. My biggest complaint was the action sequences when it
came to gun play. I found it lazy how everyone shot at Bruce Willis but
the bullets flew all around him. There were times he took cover and I
guess because his character is just smart enough he knows when to take
cover and just shoot because the opponents he's dealing with are clumsy
and inexperienced. Anyway small complaint for a very well done film.
9/10 Enjoy!
