2
Excruciating!

I really wanted to like this film. The premise, the actors, the fact
that it centers on a family of real grown ups (not 50 somethings
playing 30 somethings with teenagers who are 20 somethings). I was
looking forward to watching an American film in which the actors play
their ages (it seems of late that when an American movie requires
grandparents who actually look like grandparents and NOT the evil
browed botox caricatures Hollywood passes off as grandparents they have
to fly in British actors whose attempts at American accents sounds as
if they have a flute up their nose) and WHAT ACTORS: Julia Roberts,
Meryl Streep, Juliette Lewis, Ewan McGregor et al. From the promos it
seemed the film would deal with real issues. Well, this film does have
issues, all right. Buckets, wheelbarrows, truckloads of issues. There
were so many issues I thought I had gotten lost on Erskine Caldwell's
Tobacco Road, but without the realism -- this was the same white trash
but living in a bigger house, and had they been living in a hovel this
film would have been attacked as classist in the extreme. Incest
(suggested), infidelity, addiction, alcoholism, racism, manipulation,
bullying, greed, lying, stealing. It was so hard to find any redeeming
quality in any of the characters that it was hard deciding who to hate
or who to blame. The mom, Meryl Streep, might make a good
scapegoat/punching bag for all the family's problems, but her ho of a
sister (or sister in law, I forget and who cares) is no better, and
neither are her kids. They go on and on and on and on about their
junkie mom but have they ever really tried to help her? And moan about
their poor, poor dad, the drunk, as if the fact that he doesn't need a
prescription filled to get his mojo and no one in the family ever
brings his scotch consumption up since he's such a great guy because
he's never been to rehab makes him some kind of saint for sticking by
his pill popping wife! One of the daughters wants to marry her cousin,
which is creepy enough but when she finds out from her mom that he is
her half brother (without the mom knowing she had the hots for him in
the first place) she blames the mother for, for, for, WHAT EXACTLY? For
never telling them their dear old dad was such a dog and was for years
screwing their nice Aunt Mattie? The daughters all play "who's the
bigger martyr" although they really don't seem to give a damn about
anyone but themselves. Even when Julia Roberts has had enough at a
family dinner, freaks out at her mom then flushes all her mom's pills
down the toilet, exactly who is she doing this for? If her mother's
pill addiction is as bad as they make out, wouldn't abruptly stopping
the pills put her into intensive care? There really was no one in the
film that was worth caring about, or rooting for, or even mourning. In
terms of acting, well, it would be impossible to not over-act with such
scenarios and such a script, and the actors in this film do not let us
down in that regard. The mom's ability to talk non stop for 20 minute
intervals without taking a breath while suffering from MOUTH CANCER(!!)
and puffing a cigarette at the same time is admirable, and reminds me
somewhat of King Lear's hefty dramatic monologues but with a lot of
smoke. So if you want to see one of modern cinema's greatest actors
(Streep) pull that off, I suppose it's worth the price of admission.
And even though he was a lying philandering drunk, ultimately the dad
really isn't so bad. He had the sense to off himself at the start of
the film, which I was itching to do to myself half way through!
