2
Horrible

I kind of liked the first Jack Reacher movie. It had a solid story and
Tom Cruise played the Reacher character with enough quirks to keep me
interested. This new movie is so preposterous I wanted to slap my face
near a dozen times. You pretty much know how it starts out if you've
seen the movie trailer which was everywhere to an obnoxious level "That
phones going to ring and your going to be wearing these cuffs.. blah
blah blah". They should have started with a little more action IMO.
Apparently Jack Reacher is like a homeless stalker who is constantly
calling Cobie Smulders character, Turner, and flirting with her via pay
phones. He finally makes it to DC (hitchhiking) and finds out she's
been arrested for espionage. Holt McCallany (wasted in this move) also
informs Reacher that he has a kid(?) and he's a deadbeat dad. So now we
have this kid involved played by Danika Yerosha with WAY to much hair.
Soon Cruise is arrested, break him and Turner out of prison and they're
running around DC like they're Jason Bourne. I've been to DC, you don't
f!ck around in DC like this! They are set up and implicated in so many
assaults and deaths they would be shot on sight in most countries. So
it seems a little strange when Cruise is knocking people out on plan
flights and leaving them in the bathroom? I think they check those
before landing? And I don't think you can RUN outside airports on the
tarmac in ANY major airport in the US and I'm positive you can't do it
in New Orleans. And you know what else you can't do in New Orleans?
Find anyone on Bourbon Street during Halloween (and sorry but they
don't do parades down Bourbon Street). If your separated your done,
just go get a Hurricane and chill. And this isn't the OLD WEST, if
you've been implicated in murders and assaults it doesn't matter if one
guys believes you, your still going to jail (or shot on sight). Now I'm
not a Tom Cruise hatter. There are a bunch of Cruise movies I love. But
he's starting to look his age. He's in great shape for 54 but he's
never playing a 54 year old dude in any of his movies. Keep your shirt
on bro (comes off twice). His acting is like he's trying to act like he
has no emotion and it is uncomfortable. Anti-acting? Finally at the end
of the movie he does his red face-red eyes-I'm full of emotion-look. He
can get you right in the feels with that. I'm positive there are better
Lee Child books Tom could have picked from? Maybe one without an
annoying daughter side story and more believable sequences (I'd say
action but.. not so much)? Or stick to the Mission Impossible flicks. I
give this a 2. If you like brainless action you might like this. or
just watch the first one again and enjoy you some Werner Herzog! _ Stay
Sick!!
