5
it's not my fault

Greetings again from the darkness. Are you ready for a family- oriented
movie based on the origins of the universally beloved children's
character "Winnie the Pooh"? Well, despite the PG rating, this is not
one for the kids – no matter how much they adore the cuddly,
honey-loving bear. When you realize it was directed by Simon Curtis
(WOMAN IN GOLD) and co-written by Frank Cottrell Boyce (MILLIONS),
filmmakers known for their crowd-pleasing projects, the final version
could be considered borderline deceitful.It's 1941 when we first see A.A. Milne and wife Daphne receiving an
unwanted telegram whilst tending the English garden. We then flashback
to 1916 when Mr. Milne was serving on the front lines of WWI, and
returned with a severe case of shell-shock (described as PTSD today).
His episodes can be set off by bees, balloons, and bulbs. This
affliction also has him in a deep state of writer's block accompanied
by a need to write an important anti-war manuscript. Domnhall Gleeson plays the famous writer and Margot Robbie his wife.
The 1920 birth of their son Christopher Robin makes it clear that lousy
parenting exists in every era. Neither father nor mother have much use
for their offspring, so they enlist the help of a Nanny Olive, played
by Kelly Macdonald. Does it sound like a wonderful family flick so far?
Well things do pick up when C.R. is shown as an 8 year old played by
screen wonder Will Tilston. His bright eyes and dimples so deep we
wonder if they are CGI, bring joy to the viewers, even if the parents
remain icy and self-centered.The film's middle segment allows father and son to bond on long walks
through the 100 acre wood, and we are witness to how the toys become
the familiar icons of children's stories: Winnie the Pooh, Eeyore,
Piglet, Kanga, Roo, and of course, Tigger. The picturesque English
countryside makes a beautiful setting for the adorable and energetic
C.R., known at home as Billy Moon (nicknames abound in the Milne
household).Unfortunately, the father-son segment leads to even more atrocious
parenting. After the book is first published in 1926, young Christopher
Robin becomes little more than a marketing piece for the family
business. The walks in the woods are replaced by radio interviews and
publicity appearances. No matter how Nou (the nickname for Nanny Olive)
tries to bring normalcy to the boy's life, the parents remain oblivious
to what is happening.Alex Lawther appears as the 18 year old Christopher Robin. He's
committed to serving his duty in WWII after surviving boarding school
bullying and hazing. Equally important to him is escaping the shadow of
the celebrity childhood, and finding his own identity – one that is not
associated globally with a fuzzy bear. The innocence of childhood
stolen by selfish parents is painful to watch, whether 90 years ago
with the Milne's, or today with any number of examples.The 3 reasons to watch this film are: the photography is beautiful
(cinematographer Ben Smithard), those other-worldly dimples of a
smiling boy, and the near-guarantee that you will feel better about
yourself as a parent (if not, you need immediate counseling, and so
does your kid). In this case, being a well-made movie is not enough.
The film is a bleak downer with the few exceptions teasing us with the
infamous whimsy of the classic stories. Sometimes pulling the curtain
back reveals a side of human nature akin to war itself. We are left
with the impression that the audience and readers are to blame – being
held accountable – for the misery suffered by the real Christopher
Robin. Crowd-pleaser? More like the blame game.
