3
May The Holy Hard Drive Bless You My Child?

Spoilers Ahead:Sometimes, I swear, these pagans amaze even me. Yes, contrary to what
the greatest Greek philosopher who ever lived believed, Socrates, Luc
Besson holds that the smarter we get the less moral we become. Gee, who
doesn't have a moral system in their Weltanshuung? Congratulations,
Luc, that silly guy in the toga, who wrote those overrated dialogs that
have survived for, oh, a couple thousand years held precisely the
opposite. As portrayed in Fargo, by the way, Socrates held that as
reason increases so does morality. He held that inarticulate brutes,
like Fargo's wordless killer, were the bulk of all murderers. I like
Johansson, she is usually a very skilled actress, the only good part of
the dreadful Hitchcock. Here, she simply has a role where her
delineation is unintentionally comic. Bugging one's eyes out, speaking
laconically, as in Ex Machina, actually is the opposite of intellect.
Speech's speed and cadence increase rapidly as the mind grows in power.
Look, I am sorry but the movie evoked laughter in the audience I
watched it in. She tries very hard, the main problem is the painful
materialistic base of pseudo science that this TRON like piece of tripe
is predicated upon. Yes, the other reviewers are quite correct, talk
about a protagonist that you could not care less about, as she becomes
more and more like ALIEN ethically. Yes, running over lots of innocent
people, I am really rooting for her now.I concur with the other reviewer, the first forty minutes are all you
want to watch. Once that guy kicks her in the stomach and she begins
changing the movie into Altered States, traveling through time,
visiting the set of 2001: the monkey years, and than comes the epiphany
she transforms into these pagans' god: The Computer. Yes, lost within
materialism, believing as Protagoras did that: Man is the Measure of
All Things. Please, and you laugh at our metaphysics do you? Well,
trust me, on behalf of all Kantian Transcendental Idealists your
believing yourself to be ascending into a mother board we find a bit
humorous, sorry. I swear, just step back from the movie and see it as
an alien from space would view it. She becomes more and more
unintentionally funny, frankly, and the movie moves from science
fiction into the realm of Monty Python. I strongly recommend that if
you are curious about the movie and insist upon viewing it, keep
another disc near your player. After 42 minutes, we leave reality far
behind and move into what I could best call: Metaphysics For
Lobotomized, Computerized, Illiterate Geeks. I did not think it was possible, I actually preferred The Motionless
Picture where Trekkies make some traveling ball of rectum gas bow down
and worship them. Hey, at least it had the super hot Persis Khambatta!
Please, computer people, do not come into the world of philosophy, you
are embarrassing yourself. Start with Socrates, work your way through
Hume, Berkeley, Nietzsche, Kant and finally Sartre. The best
unintentionally hilarious science fiction since Star Trek 4: Get You
Whale On Baby. May The Blessings Of The Divine Downloads Be Upon You.
Le Poo Poo!
