1
Awful movie

Here is the first spoiler, you will never get back the time you waste
by watching this movie. The story line is based on a linguistics
professor being recruited to communicate with, ahhh well...squid...over
sized face huggers...who knows and even more importantly who really
cares? The creature design is uninteresting and done to death. The
ships the squid arrive in are...can you guess it? If you were thinking
giant pebble...you are absolutely right. If not and were expecting
inspired ships designs...sorry...nil points. The film tries to be
cleaver by lots and lots of random cut scenes combined with a weak
story line and characters which fails to connect with the audience. The
language used by the aliens in my opinion would take years to decode
and the antagonist of the movie manages to crack a written language
based on circles in mere months. There is a real lack of explanation as
to the motives of some of secondary characters, as a rouge team of
military personnel attempt to blow up one of the 12 giant pebbles. Why?
Surely they can't expect us to believe that a YouTube clip motivated
them to possibly doom all of humanity? The movie is boring. You can
feel every minute slowly tick by. As your brain is assaulted by a
million random cut scenes of babies, people passing away and other
mundane rubbish, you wish you were in front of a freshly painted wall
watching the paint dry. That's not all! When you get to the actual stage that you wish that
real aliens would just blast you with a ray gun to end the misery of
watching Arrival...it ends. It's not a joyous occasion, I mean yes you
are thankful the film has ended but it plummets even further into dire
and mediocre pit of misery and despair. It is finally ascertained that
the squid have a tool or gift for humanity. Upon the discovery that the
squid will do us a favour and will return in a mere 3000 years to ask
for our help in return. This is the best bit...oh sweet lord...the
squid and their giant pebbles dissolve like fizzy tablets. They give us
nothing...and to be honest most of us will be dead in 3000 years...so
we'll worry about that when we get to it. The main protagonist is then
seduced by a smooth talking scientist who breaks the ice by saying
"Wanna make a baby?". You try that...please. Go up to a lady you fancy
in a location of your choosing and blurt out the immortal words "Wanna
make a baby?". She will either have you arrested or will destroy you
were you stand. Either way I wouldn't consider it solid dating advice.I would like to conclude by saying please listen to my mad ramblings
and don't watch this movie. If like me, you enjoy Sci-Fi there are
dozens of better films out there. Arrival is not original, the story
line is weak, the monsters are dire and their ships are dreadful. I am
a massive Forest Whittaker fan and the man is still a legend. Only two
questions I would like to ask him...Why did you choose to be in
arrival? & when is Blood Sports 2 going to be made?
