1
Revoltingly violent; ridiculous plot, sad reflection of today's "entertainment"

In the first 5 minutes of this abhorrently violent film, one of the
film's protagonists is literally sliced in half, length-wise, from top
to bottom, by a (yawn) hot, Asian-looking, double-amputee with some
sort of "slasher foot-prosthetics" on her tawny, spandex-clad limbs.
Yes, you read that right. Not only are the physics involved in this
ludicrous action simply impossible, there is NO blood--nothing. Just an
insipidly-dumb, ill-conceived effect designed to make sadistic killing
"funny" and elicit a cheap "ooh!" from the audience. But wait--there's more. In another disturbing scene, a church full of
"Westboro Baptist"-style fundamentalist bigots beat, claw, and slash
each other to death to the musical accompaniment of the "Free Bird"
ending guitar solo. I guess mass murder is cool and fun if it's scored
to some popular music and if the victims are just ignorant bigots; hey,
no foul, no crime. Are we supposed to cheer this? There are other
nauseating violent scenarios, all shot in the latest hi-tech digital
slow-motion, freeze-frame camera work that makes rednecks and "real
men" squeal in ecstasy. Oh yeah-and at the end, the hero's "prize" for
"saving the world"? Why, what every alcohol-numbed fratboy/
socially-challenged gamer dreams of; (read this with a Swedish
accent)"sex in the asshole" with a winsome, blond Scandinavian
princess. I kid you not, folks. This is the shallowest,
lowest-common-denominator script-writing.This movie is an utterly disgusting and pathetic reflection of what
passes for "entertainment" in today's mentally-damaged world of
desensitized adults raised on UFC blood sport, graphic "head shots" in
ultra-violent video games and a lack of real moral role models from our
authority figures and heroes. It's a world of violence for violence'
sake, and graphic violence as "entertainment". I felt dirty and stained
after sitting through this turkey with my fiancé's friends on our
double-date. Hopefully, you'll never have to experience the
indignity...
