7
Political portrait that walk a strange line between hard fact and romantic sentiment

Abraham Lincoln is one of those mythic figures, like Gandhi, El Cid,
Che Guevara, Garibaldi, Churchill, Nelson, Washington, Richard the
Lionheart, Princess Diana, who have become legends of folklore, legends
which usually hide decidedly grubbier and less pleasant realities.
However, because of our Human need for heroes to look up to and inspire
us, we usually "print the legend" rather than the truth.Most media representations of "honest Abe" falls into this latter
category, as best exemplified in the literal cartoon that was last
year's "Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter" which brought things into
sharper relief by playing it all in deadly earnest. Of course Lincoln
lived only a couple of lifetimes at remove from us, so the truth is
there, but we choose to ignore it because we want to believe in this
great noble hero who "freed the black man" from the sadistic, demonic
evil deformed Southerners, as simple a battle between "Good" and "Evil"
as the equally misrepresented WWII, a man driven by an all-conquering
desire for equality so strong it even has its own stirring
accompaniment of tear jerking violins and moving horns wherever it
goes! It's a pleasing fantasy, especially for rich white people who
like to pat themselves on the back for how noble and good they are,
even though it relegates Black people to simpletons, smiling happy
children free of any adult sin or virtue, perpetual victims who need
nice enlightened white folk to make their destinies for them.I approached this film with some trepidation; sure that Spielberg the
great romantic would give us more of the same and then some. However
the film walks a very strange tightrope indeed. Taken from D K Godwin's
dry text, it spends a lot of time looking at the political machinations
and double dealing that got the 13th amendment (banning slavery)
passed, and is a highly instructive lesson about how government and
democracy actually works, including bribery corruption and outright
lies. In turn it has been adapted by playwright Tony Kusher into what
is really a filmed play with little real action and everything confined
to a few room like sets where dialogue carries everything. This is all
then filmed by Spielberg, who injects the admittedly very restrained
production with jarring and intrusive stabs of pure schmaltz, usually
whenever the evil of slavery is brought up, or one of the many
prominently (and highly anachronistically) positioned Black faces steps
to make some clichéd speech. These Spielbergian moments can be easily
identified because whenever they appear in between the political
machinations and congressional double dealings, John Williams stirring
flag waving music strikes up to pull those old heartstrings! (You could
almost invent a drinking game around them, one that would probably get
you very drunk indeed) So really, it's two very separate movies, the
Godwin/Kusher political lesson being the biggest, with the Spielberg
schmaltz in support.To its credit the film looks authentic, including the dim candle and
gaslight level lighting which bathes everything in semi darkness, and
most of the characters act, speak and think like people from the 1860s
rather than people from 2012 in costume (Save for the aforementioned
anachronistic Spielbergian romance moments) both of which are very rare
in historical film.This being a stage play in all but name, it is the actors who dominate,
and here we have some of the best. Daniel Day Lewis gives us a powerful
version of the mythical Lincoln we know and love (rather than the less
pleasant real one) with his homespun tales and folksy charm, stirring
passion and quiet determination, and he is gifted by an existing
physical resemblance. Sally Field creates a powerful character our of
Mary Lincoln, the only character to shine a less than positive light on
her famous husband, strong willed and frustrated, all too aware of her
position as the wife of a legend, a woman who pushes for the 13th
largely because it will end the war and keep her son from harm. Tommy
Lee Jones incarnates radical abolitionist Thaddeus Stevens, a man too
extreme for his time, with the fire of the old TLJ we haven't seen in a
while, the brutish, frightening thug like alpha male who can intimidate
and crush those beneath him like bugs, the man with the lashing wit and
grandiose gestures, and it's nice to see him back again. David
Straithern, another powerful presence, plays Lincoln's fixer William
Seward. His character is very similar to the one he plays in the
"Bourne" series, the intelligent committed patriotic manipulator who
uses downright shady and suspect methods for 'the greater good', expect
here we are expected to side with him. His chief agent is played with
amoral glee by an almost unrecognisable James Spader, bribing dead duck
Democrats with lucrative posts for the 'yes' vote in a series of light
hearted vignettes. Jason Gordon Levitt appears as Abe's eldest son
Robert, determined to enlist against his father's wishes, whom even a
gruesome pit full of severed limbs can't fully dissuade. Legendary Hal
Holbrook lends gravitas as voice of reason Preston Blair while Jared
Harris effectively incarnates another legend, General Ulysses S. Grant
for a few vital scenes.For a Spielberg film about war, there is virtually no action, and those
expecting a big spectacular will leave disappointed. This is a history
lesson starring famous names written by a playwright adapting a
political analyst's dissertation on Congressional politics, directed by
the master of romanticism and sentimentality, with a lot of unpleasant
truth's airbrushed out and replaced by the legends we would like to
believe are actually true in their place. It won't be for all tastes,
but it is worth a look for those with a little patience.
