8
The Florida Project (2017)

Boy, did I hear some great things about this from film festivals and
from critics I follow on social media. Trailer didn't blow me away but
I knew there had to be something special about this film. I haven't
seen Sean Baker's previous effort, Tangerine, so I didn't really have a
barometer for what to expect. I can safely say the film works so well.
It's incredibly well acted, and utilizes a charming and emotional
script to convey an experience you won't soon forget.The film follows a young girl named Moonee (played by a really good
young Brooklynn Kimberly Prince) and her mom who live in an extended
stay motel managed by Bobby (Willem Dafoe). Halley, Moone's mother, has
trouble making ends meet and does whatever she can to raise her
daughter but her brash personality and lifestyle makes life difficult
during their stay at the motel. Bobby tries his best to watch over them
but realizes how tough it is keeping them as guests.Its hard to say much more without giving away key plot points. I have
to say this film is a joyous good time. The kid performers are mostly
yelling loudly and running around on adventures. you know, being
typical hyper kids. Its done so well though. I think Baker may have
legitimately had the child actors improvise their lines because
everything felt extremely natural. Newcomer Bria Vinaite, wow. She is
livewire. Love or hate her character, she is loudly unapologetic and
rebellious and just wonderfully portrayed. Defoe is also typically
great. Bobby is such an identifiable character.Baker uses his lenses to study a part of under-represented America. We
don't get a lot of films about struggling families who find it hard to
get by, definitely not the typical "Hollywood" character story. The
film is definitely going to hit a lot of viewers hard at the end. Its a
rather beautiful ending that reflects the innocence of the mischievous
but ultimately innocent children. This could really be an Oscar
contender.8/10
