7
Love is in the air ... during WWII ... guess it's forbidden

"This German is our enemy. Do you understand? Yes. Madame."Occasionally my lovely, sweet wife (yep, she regularly reads my
reviews) gets the privilege to choose a movie. Usually this is
accompanied by a blistering reproach that I always get it my way. I
always think of her when choosing a movie and usually it's an
acceptable one. She tends to forget that. I usually look those gore and
scarier flicks in the middle of the night on my own, so I'm saved from
a wife who awakes in a panic while planting her sharp nails into my
shoulders. Hence I braced myself for a romantic war drama and expected
it to be a wilted station novel. Ultimately, it wasn't so bad. The
romantic rumble was limited and there was more attention for the mutual
relations between the richer and poorer population in the village of
Bussy and the vicissitudes of a fugitive, crippled farmer.Besides, I must admit that I have a weak spot for WWII movies. I
readily admit that those were the dark pages in the history of Europe,
but those developments in these years were a fertile ground for a whole
range of excellent war films. The fact that Matthias Schoenaerts also
succeeded in getting the leading role here, was another reason for me
to give this movie a chance. Let's say chauvinism raised its head and
as a Belgian I'm proud to see how this fellow countryman has worked his
way into the club of the better international actors (sorry Muscles
from Brussels, but you just didn't get in that club) Surprisingly, I
didn't suffer from aching jaws because of the complete absence of
yawning. There's of course the forbidden love between Lucille (Michelle
Williams), the daughter of the strict and cold landowner Madame
Angellier (beautiful played by Kristin Scott Thomas) on the one hand
and officer Bruno von Falk (Schoenaerts), a German officer who has been
assigned a place to sleep at the manor of the latter two ladies, on the
other. Eventually, this forbidden love remains slumbering a bit on the
background and isn't imaged explicitly. But their like-minded love for
music comes more to the fore. The additional story lines made it more
interesting. The other arrogant German officer who sees himself as an
Übermensch and treats the locals disrespectful, the callous mother in
law who appears to be a resistance fighter in the making, the mayor and
his wife (two genuine ass kissers) trying to get in good graces with
the occupiers but face the consequences afterwards and the resistance
of a peasant against the oppressors.All this is beautifully illustrated and featured with the usual scenes
of war (a nosedive of German fighter-bombers against innocent refugees
is included of course), which makes it an interesting war drama. But
afterwards I didn't think it was that innovative, so to speak. It's the
superb performances which nevertheless left a deep impression. The
clichéd plot twists are not shunned, and what remains is a conservative
adaptation of a manuscript left by a real war victim, Irène Némirovsky.More reviews here : http://bit.ly/1KIdQMT
