8
A sick desperation lingers on...........

Since I have not seen the original Maniac (1980) hence this movie for
me had no prerequisite anticipatory factor attached to it. Also since
slasher movie genre doesn't hold so much of a charm on me so I took
this movie in a stride, if you know what I mean. I was highly impressed
by Elijah Wood in Sin City, his cold calculated cannibalistic killer
portrayal had an allure to it and just so as to revisit that coldness I
went into Maniac.Now one thing I can guarantee about Maniac is it's quite difficult to
stay indifferent to it. It's ruthlessly executed. The P.O.V approach is
spot on, for then you truly tend to understand what goes inside that
head of his. After a point of time it turns into a personal experience
of sorts and this is what P.O.V brings to the table. The strain and the
blurry visions when Frank has those migraines reciprocates his own pain
and you first hand live through his troubled life, feeding into his
dreams and upon his preys. It would be incorrect to call Maniac a
slasher movie, it does have elements resembling the Slasher genre but
in it's nuances you find a whole gamut of emotions colliding and
forging his actions. It explores Frank inside out and in turn generates
sympathy for him. His loneliness and his apprehensions in confronting
his emotions tend to make him more than a simple antagonist. As Frank
you feel cheated, angry and a sick desperation to manifest these
emotions into something violent. I won't say if it was meant to be an
allegory of sorts on the society and it's structure but it sure was an
interesting character study. Technically the movie is superbly done, the P.O.V might be a little
discomforting to start with but soon it settles in, there are portions
where the continuity is broken but those are real Cathartic situations
and so the idea in itself justifies the break of continuity. As for the
performances, Elijah Wood; not so visible save in mirrors is still
terrific, his voice for much of the movie brings out the desperation
inside him. He is truly an underrated actor with such vast potential,
it's just a matter of putting in a straw and sucking out the talent.
Even Nora as Anna puts in a nice performance, looking straight into the
camera and with no source to compliment her performance she manages to
pull it off real nice. Overall Maniac in terms of story offers nothing
new but the treatment is worth the accolades. It might seem hollow at
times and Frank a little clichéd but still for the sheer
experimentation and experience of it, Maniac at least a one time
watch..I'd go with a 8/10...and would recommend for sure.
