7
Reunited after thirty years

It was really a pleasure to see Alex Vincent back as Andy Barcely after
almost thirty years when he was a little boy in "Child's Play." Don
Mancini seems to have a whole carnival planned out for this horror
franchise that has become quite popular since debuting back in the late
80's, about a killer doll named Chucky. Don Mancini's latest
incarnation "Cult of Chucky" is about as batshit crazy as you can
imagine but the question is, for being a seventh sequel in the
franchise, is it good?It's about, Nica Pierce (Fiona Dourif) who is convinced she is
responsible for the murders, not Chucky, that happened to her family
four years before. Since the murders, she has been locked up in an
insane asylum. When strange occurrences begin happening at the asylum,
Nica starts to believe that maybe she is not crazy after all. Chucky
soon shows up at the asylum and begins looking for Nica. Meanwhile,
Andy Barclay (Alex Vincent) believes Nica's innocence because of his
past with the killer doll and when he discovers she is in trouble, he
races to the asylum to save her.After "Curse of Chucky" brought the franchise back to its horror roots
and was surprisingly good, it set the bar high for a sequel to continue
the story of Nica, the wheelchair-bound woman who learned her family's
dark secret when Chucky gave us an exciting revelation that we had been
waiting 25 years to learn. So, what can we expect from "Cult of
Chucky?" It is no surprise that the return of Andy Barcely is the big
lead-up to the movie. The last time we saw Andy was back in 1988 when
he received Chucky as a birthday gift from his mom, who was unaware
that the doll was possessed by a recently gunned down serial killer.
Alex Vincent made a cameo appearance as Andy at the end credits of
"Curse of Chucky," signaling his return and prompting us all to gasp in
delight. Someone appears after the end credits of this picture too but
who could it be? I get the feeling I know what Don Mancini is trying to
accomplish here.Andy hasn't had much luck since everyone seems to know about his dark
past involving the killer doll. He lives in an isolated cabin and keeps
a secret hidden in a wall safe. The secret serves as some the comedy of
the film. Andy watches a video of him attempting to convince Nica's
sleazy doctor by shooting the secret with a paintball gun and making it
shriek. Of course, no one believes him...again. See how I am giving
hints and making you wonder? That is what this whole film does until
the revelation at the end and it can be really frustrating when you're
wondering what is going on and who-is-who. However, it might be
frustrating but does effectively keep you on the edge. At one point,
Nica watches an unstable patent out a window take one of the dolls
outside to a snowy graveyard and his face shifts evil and gives her the
finger. This makes you wonder what is going on but more so what is
Chucky's sinister plan?When Chucky is brought to the asylum by a mysterious person who is just
a loony and sinister woman, not to mention she should be in the asylum,
he awakens and goes looking for Nica. Now, what they have done with
Chucky is amazing. There is a long shot of Chucky walking towards the
camera and the focus fades in on him as he gets closer. He walks, talks
and acts like a human and this is incredible for a doll that is not CGI
but an actual puppet. This is something they have always gotten right
and this time, it really is something to watch. Just after that scene,
one of the crazies in the hospital comes out of her room and sees
Chucky and attempts to tell him that he is not real. She ends up
annoying him and he calls her a "F**king cuckoos nest" and takes off.
He hasn't lost his charm.It is really hard to go into detail without spoiling the film because
there are twists and turns, especially as things escalate towards the
finale. Actually, I was really surprised at the finale. I was thinking
someone else but it turned out to be the one person I never thought it
would be. It is very much like "Curse of Chucky." Someone is left to
take the fall for the murders at the asylum much like Nica took the
fall for the murders in the house, but who is left in the asylum? See,
those hints again. Chucky descends upon the staff of the hospital with
whatever he can get her plastic hands on. I don't think he has ever
used a power drill before but he has one now and it's gruesome. A lot
of the patients are useless and are just there for Chucky to attack.Don Mancini has created another interesting entry in the franchise and
there is plenty on offer here for the fans. I would say that whatever
Don has planned for the next installment will be more interesting as
this one is very much a build up with a lot going on. After the two
revelations at the end, one I don't know what to think because I
suppose the loss of innocence plays a part in it and another that
breaks new ground and is interesting but I am not sure how Don will
play it out. He sets this one up to make you really want to see what
happens next and on that note, the film works and is a clever addition
to the franchise. I just hope we get to see more than a few scenes with
Andy the next time around.
