7
From The Evil Dead to Disney....

A magician finds himself transported to the magical land of Oz, where
witches, flying monkeys and yellow brick roads exist. He is mistaken
for the saviour of Oz and must decide whether or not to stay and be
king, or leave and find his way home.I love Sam Raimi, the man and his invented work with a camera are what
made me want to get into filmmaking in the first place. So to see him
handling big projects like this (and Spiderman) was a joy for me to
see. Oz the Great & Powerful is a CGI heavy film that demands a
creative eye behind the lens. After his work on big budget films like
Spiderman, it seemed like an easy choice for Raimi to be the one behind
Oz and for the most part, it works. The films shortcomings keep it from
being really magical and memorable, like the original from 39, but Oz
has enough whimsy to keep the kids entertained and the adults smiling. The land of Oz is indeed magical, with vibrant colours around every
corner, memorable spots like the poppy fields and the dark forest for
us older viewers, but even in saying all that I can't help but feel how
fake it all is. This film suffers from the same troubles that plagued
Burton's Alice in Wonderland, the visuals, although great for the
story, add no sense of realism to the image. I hate overly used CGI in
films to the point of noticing the awkward placement of actors in front
of the green screen. The first major offender of this is Star Wars:
Attack of the Clones, none of the actors made me believe they were in
the settings they were. Both Wonderland and Oz have this same feeling. While I'm getting the negatives out of the way, I must say that what
everyone is saying about Mila Kunis is true, she was miscast in this
role. I think she was chosen more for her beauty and star power than
her acting abilities, which is sad cause it looks like she really is
trying here. The story for her character here is a sad one and the
second half I think suffers a bit because the threat from her is not
really present. I don't really know why I'm tip-toeing around the issue
because those who know The Wizard of Oz, know that Dorothy kills one
witch with her house and the other with water, leaving Glinda the good
witch in a bubble as the saviour. Seeing the Kunis character go in the
direction she does didn't really effect me as much as I wanted it to.
Consider that the failure of the script more so than the actors. Not
enough time is really given to her for her transformation to affect the
viewer.The film opens in black & white and and the transformation to colour
had a smile on my face. Despite the "fakeness" of some of the scenes
(not all) Raimi does a decent job of not letting the effects overpower
the film. Raimi steers the film in the right direction, but it is James
Franco's shoulders it has to rest on. He is the type of actor that
comes off as not really caring. It works in some films like Pineapple
Express and he does manage to turn in some great performances, look at
127 days or Freaks & Geeks for that. Unfortunately I don't know if he
has enough charisma and power to command a film like this. At times it
looked like he was in the role, other times it felt like he couldn't
care. Maybe it's his acting style, I can't really put my finger on it,
but clearly Raimi sees something in him because he has worked with him
previously on the Spiderman films. Where the acting does work, marvellously and in every scene is Rachel
Weisz and Michelle Williams. Two polar opposites that look like they
actually enjoy the characters and the movie they are in. They elevate
the material a bit to make the drama more tangible. Whereas without
them I think the film would have fallen more flat. The drama and
character choices didn't really bring me into the story. The film
didn't feel like it took chances, or tried to have complex situations
for the characters. It had mapped out beats, hit them and marched on. It was nice seeing some nice Raimi touches in the final product. More
than 25 years later and I still smile when I see Bruce Campbell getting
hit in the face, knowing full well that it is Sam Raimi on the other
end of the camera hitting him. Surprisingly, moments did indeed feel
Evil Deadish to me, with the flying witches holding out their hands in
a deadite possession form. But I digress. Oz is a good film, with
weaknesses that bring it down. Raimi and two witches try their best to
elevate some bland material and in the end we are left with a film that
is neither great, nor memorable....just satisfactory enough.
