3
Waited years only to be disappointed.

I just left the theater after seeing jeepers creepers 3 and I have to
say that I am extremely disappointed. It wasn't necessarily a bad
movie, I have seen worse. But it just didn't deliver after years of
waiting. I left the theater with no more knowledge of the creeper or
his origin than I did when I went in. The characters in the movie
repeatedly let us know that every 23 years for 23 days the creature
gets to eat. We KNEW that already, from the other two movies. Another
thing that bothered me is the addition of contraptions on the
creature's truck that were no where in sight or even hinted at in the
first film. He also roars now which is very different than the shriek
like sound he makes in the other two films. His appearance is
different; he isn't as gross looking in this movie; he is too human
like in his moves and demeanor. He could pass for a regular man wearing
a mask. He also doesn't seem to be able to tell if a person is dead or
alive anymore, even when said person is suddenly unwrapped, still
moving when the truck door is opened, and breathing heavily. Victims
also now escape for the most part unnoticed, and will barely a scratch.
Supposedly this movie takes place the morning after Darry was taken and
had his eyes stolen by the creeper. So the creeper snatched Darry, lit
a hundred candles, turned on a record player, carved out the back of
Darry's head... All of that which we saw at the end of the first movie.
But at the same time he was stealing his truck back from the people on
the tow truck, all in the same night? How did he manage to find the
time? Unnecessary love story and other plot points that serve no
purpose or that are left unexplained. Characters making the dumbest
decisions that no real person would make. Plenty of jump scares.
Attempt at a twist ending involving the bus from the second film. Seems
like there may be a sequel in the works. If so I'll wait for the DVD
next time. Very disappointed.
