4
The Only People Getting Conned Are the Audience

No one had heard of Margot Robbie until 'The Wolf of Wall Street' came
about. Now, it seems that every Director wants her in their film. How
could they not; when she enthralled audiences everywhere with an
exceedingly rare female role in a film. A character that is determined
and strong willed. Don't get me wrong Robbie is entitled to further
roles, I just cannot shake off the feeling that the Directors pulled
off a con involving her, so that she could become the female lead in
'Focus'. It should be noted that never has a title had less relevance
for a feature film. Because if anything the majority of this film is
out of focus and you can include the script in that statement as well.It's not all bad though. The first thirty minutes is entertaining.
However, I mean this in a, if you leave your brain at home way. Don't
think too much and you may have a blast, but that's only if you never
use your brain during a film. If you do, then there's the door, I
suggest you walk through it.Nicky is a con artist played blandly yet again by Will Smith, who has
only ever been well cast in a film once – 'Men in Black'. He takes up
Jess played by Margot Robbie mustering her acting talent and trying as
hard as she did in 'The Wolf of Wall Street' to impress. She becomes
his protégé, con artist and lover. They try to become romantically
involved and it does not work out. Nicky eventually tracks her down to
win back her affection and talent as a con artist.Unfortunately, cracks in the film appear frequently, too large to brush
aside and ignore. Consider the opening scene where Nicky tries to bed
Jess. It works to his advantage and all of it happens according to his
plan. But, we as an audience do not buy it. He barely knows the girl
and not five minutes of chit chat has taken place, when they decide to
get down to business. I know he is Will Smith and all. I'm sure he has
women falling at his feet. But this seems rather far-fetched.
Especially when this love turns out to be more than a one night stand
and they are fully fledged romantically. The decisions that they
partake seem rash, perhaps it was this lack of character development
that led me to become distanced from the film in the process.The script thinks it's very clever and is far too cock sure. This
brings to mind another film about deception, trickery and cons. That
made no sense at all in the slightest and was all too lacking when it
came to character motivation and plausibility. 'Now You See Me'. Both
of these films are firmly rooted in the nineties, with old jokes and
plot twists so dumb it would have a toddler second guessing the events
of the film. Another comparison to be made is that they both possess
visual gleam. Take that away and they are just cheap parlour tricks to
conceal their true identity.If I am putting my points across to you again and again, then I'm
sorry. But at least it parallels the repetitiveness of the film itself.
What starts out as clever movements of characters who steal wallets and
other personal belongings from random citizens grows tiresome quickly.
Seen one con and you have seen them all. Don't get me going again about
the romance that has been stamped on so that couples will flock to the
cinema. Do we ever feel involved in their emotions? Do we feel for the
characters? Do we in fact buy their romance at all for a second? The
answer to all of them above is a definite no! The con clearly is on
with 'Focus', not on the oblivious characters, but by and large on the
audience themselves. How long can you watch the same old, same old
trickery on screen that never changes? It drags and drags and drags.
Gets old quickly see? Want a dull Will Smith? A flavourless story? Dumb
plot twists that make no sense for a climax? You can have it all. Just
do not expect witty dialogue, engaging scenes or interesting characters
for that matter. Now excuse me while I burn all copies of the film.
