1
Amazing Comedy/Adventure - Mediocre Superhero/Spy Movie!

CONTAINS SPOILERS CONTAINS SPOILERS CONTAINS SPOILERS What kind of
movie was that,I couldn't stop laughing either due to jokes or
sarcastically due to the ridiculousness of the scenario! In a way that
was anticipated.The directors,the Russo brothers, have made some good
comedy around.In fact I would say that if you really like 'Community' ,
you're going to love that movie,even a lead actor from Community plays
there (small role) and you can sense the similarity to the humour But
that wasn't enough.You also have Bilbo Baggins,the guy from Goodbye
Lenin & Marisa Tomei!In a superheroes movie about Civil War!!! Therein
lies the problem of the movie.It's tone.It changes from serious to
laughter in almost every scene,all the time As for the serious
part,let's just pretend it's not there,then you can enjoy the movie!
First of all it's not a Civil War,it's 12 guys fighting in a parking
lot(or airport) and when the actors talk seriously,they have to wear
sunglasses or behave like robots The fight scenes? Amazing but over the
top The scenario? Cap seems constantly to convince Iron Man that he is
either misinformed(Is Bucky terrorist) or overreacting(Did Bucky kill
my parents) and that's why they fight!!! The evil guys? Zemo was
totally lame and no nerve.Crossbone was decent The new good guys?
Spiderman & his aunt are out of space/time.It will make you wonder who
made those choices if you know how these characters were depicted in
previous movies..Spiderman is totally dis-likable , but hey he does
make you laugh! Black Panther was awesome , but he was lame when he was
showing his panther claws Matching to Comics: Hellll no!!! Captain
America does not even die,no lead actor gets killed.Simply told,Disney
shouldn't have called it Civil War On the positives as I said
before,you laugh a lot,there is plenty action with lots of established
superheroes As a movie it was worse than Avengers,worse than the
previous 2 Captain America films,maybe a little bit better than the Age
of Ultron,but for different reasons.And to mention the 2016 competition
Bvs had its flaws, but it was much more serious and consistent.Civil
War feels like the horror/comedy movies where you know in advance that
you can't take it seriously in order to enjoy it! Disney craps all over
Marvel again..
