10
Best Film of 2012, so far!

I had the honor of watching TDKR during a screening and was completely
blown away! Christopher Nolan's third film in his Batman trilogy
doesn't disappoint. The movie is incredibly well made, its huge
production is quite breathtaking to view. This is a true cinematic
experience, to behold. The movie exceeded my expectations in terms of
action, and entertainment. The movie's score high-lites many of its
incredible scenes, and at times, it takes your breath away.The film featured excellent performances, by all the cast. Christian
Bale, as always is great as Batman. Anne Hathaway was completely
engrossing, she became "Catwoman", just like Michele Pfeiffer did,
although their interpretations were very different, both were equally
effective. Tom Hardy was the main villain "Bane" completely shattered
my expectations. One of the best superhero movie villains, I've ever
seen. The terror caused by him, is completely believable and quite
menacing. Marlion Cotilliard, Michael Cane, Gary Oldman, and others all
did well in their respective roles. Now I know most will miss Heath
Ledger as the Joker.(I know I do) I hope people don't compare Tom
Hardy's performance to Heath Ledger's, its completely unfair and the
two characters are very different. Just read the comics.The colossal size of the film is a spectacle to behold, but
surprisingly you don't get lost with all the explosions and extravagant
action scenes, like in other films,(AKA Transformers, or POTC.) If one
were to gripe, and I suppose there will never be a film made that one
cannot find a point at which to grip, it is painfully long running time
here. I found myself more worried about the pain in my posterior than
the emotional final minutes after almost 3 hours that I had spent in a
cramped seat, but that's just how I am. However the ending is just
fantastic, so emotional and bring the trilogy to a very satisfying end.Sorry if I'm being all fan-boyish and kissing this movie's behind, but
I really admire it. It may not be among my personal favorites but
generally this seems to be the movie event of this year. As a film
though, this is amazing. A true lasting legacy in superhero story
telling and summer-blockbusters.
