7
Not Jump out at you scary, but creepy

Horror movies are indeed a genre that is always a hit or miss for me.
Sometimes they deliver the chills they intend, but many of the modern
scary films are filled with too much cheesiness to make me jump or
shriek in terror. So once again I went to my local theater to check out
the latest Hollywood horror entitled Mama, starring one of my favorite
actresses Jessica Chastain. Like so many of her films, I looked forward
to being entertained by the lovely redhead and hopefully by the movie
as well. So what does this movie have in store for you? Read on to find
out.From my experiences, many horror films today prefer to use the art of
making people jump with things suddenly appearing out of nowhere. While
some directors know how to pull this off, many give away the surprise
jump with camera work and audio tricks to warn you when something is
coming. Guillermo del Toro's films though throw in some of these
scenes, but instead focuses on another scare factor that affects me a
little more: creepiness. Yes my friends Mama is creepy indeed using a
combination of many things to create a world that has a good chance of
giving you goose bumps. One factor that was a major contributor to the
scare factor was the use of shadows. From the very start of the movie
the houses are covered in shadows hiding the mysteries from within. In
some cases, the camera is pitch black with only the haunting sounds and
shifting shades to give insight into what lurks within. Yet many scenes
involve using various sources of lights to provide a false sense of
security that leaves you wondering if something will happen, which
sometimes happens and sometimes doesn't. This unpredictable behavior
kept the tension high for me and kept me wondering just where the movie
was going. Of course these techniques would be nothing if it weren't
for the human imagination. What I mean is that hiding Mama's true form
for most of the movie allowed my mind to paint a picture of the specter
that lurked within the halls and walls. Oh sure a few glimpses of her
here and there provided some input, but there was still enough mystery
left to allow me to envision some horrible nightmarish creatures. Of course once Mama's form was revealed it didn't agree with my
imagination, but surprisingly still was quite a sight to see. The
dislocated joints, malnourished limbs, and disproportional faces were
painted with a sickly brown color that gave it an added touch of
realism to send tingles down your spine. Unfortunately some of the
scenes relied too much on the CGI to bring her to life and her
exaggerated movements blurred into mediocre CGI effects. What they
lacked in the looks department though was made up for in the way Mama
moved. At first nothing more than distant floats and occasional
bursting out of the wall, Mama's behavior quickly evolved into
something I hadn't seen in a while. The damage to her body gave it
incredible flexibility that allowed her to contort into numerous
positions that had the audience screaming in horror despite how fake it
looked. For me though the scariest movement was her rapid dislocated
walk she performed as she reached out to grab the little girl at the
same time. A few additional creep factors had to be the little girl Lilly and the
background music. Lilly is the creepier of the two sisters as her
silent demeanor and large eyes are a combination that will affect most.
Most of the movie involves her stalking around the house, watching from
the shadows silently like a creature on the prowl. When someone
confronts her she says little as her large eyes seem to peer into your
soul to shake your core. As for the music factor, well it's nothing
spectacular, but it fits well with the scenes of the movie. The piano
in particular provides a spectrum of sounds to match the emotions
sometimes implying doom, while other times giving an extra sound that
somehow provides the desired effect. Besides creepiness though, this movie doesn't have many unique
strengths that boost is score. The acting is fine, with Chastain once
again doing a nice job with her part, but other than sounding and
staring creepily at the camera there wasn't much to comment on. Many of
the characters were fine and had a little more development than I
expected in a horror movie, yet their development was very linear and
predictable despite the emotion they portrayed. As for the story, it
still falls into one of the tried and true plots that have been
overused in Hollywood. However, the way the story was developed was
entertaining and well done in my opinion. Instead of Chastain and the
gang making random discoveries, the history of Mama was uncovered
through a series of dreams, research, and hypnotic interviews with one
of the girls. While it certainly isn't the best, I did enjoy the nice
change in the delivery. Mama is a horror movie that does its job right. Keeping it PG- 13 was
indeed the right decision as it allowed the crew to make a movie that
could mess with your head instead of drenching the screen in gore.
Wondering if it is worth seeing in theaters? I'll say it is, but more
for the horrifying screams and sounds, instead of actually story. I
also wish people precautions as this movie may have some flashing light
moments that may cause seizures if not careful. My scores for Mama are
the following: Horror: 7.5 Movie Overall: 6.5-7.0
