7
My score is only due to the Acting.

When asked if I wanted to see this film I half-heartedly said yes with
little understanding of what I was going to see, wondering if I will
regret it and have teen girls crying around me (I'm a guy), I was
expecting an over romantic chick flick with something to do with magic,
love, forbidden love and sacrifice. Something along the lines of
'Twilight' this assumption was Incorrect. And I was pleasantly
surprised and pleased this wasn't another case of sparkling vampires or
something similar. For all those who haven't seen this movie and
believe it's the same thing as Twilight this alone being the reason
you're not going to see it, you'd be wrong like I was at the start I
recommend getting a bunch of friends and seeing it on a weekend . Where
Twilight was just a pure romantic love story for fanged freaks,
'Beautiful Creatures' is a contemporary version of 'Romeo and Juliet'
that explores the "humanity" of an unknown supernatural world of
powers, preferably known as 'Casters' that's what they call themselves.When I came out of the cinema I was smiling, I would even go as far as
saying I was 'Claimed' by it (HAHA lame joke). This was an entertaining
film; all the actors had chemistry together and it was refreshing to
see new actors take on a role such as this one effortlessly. The main
characters that stood out from the rest would have to of been Jeremy
Irons, Emma Thompson, Alden Ehrenreich, Alice Englert, Viola Davis and
Emmy Rossum. (Just the main characters is all, I'll mention only three
below ) Alden plays the role of Ethan Wate the main character we are
first introduced to and which the plot of the story follows from his
point of view, much like the books this is based off. Alden Ehrenreich plays a convincing role as the small town boy who
aspires to be different and intelligent planning to leave rather than
follow the small minded community members of Gatlin that will
undoubtedly stay in the town for the rest of their lives, this Southern
gentlemanly style of character stays with Ethan and is more so
expressed when the new girl arrives at the school, Lena Duchanne also
known as "old man Ravenswood's niece." Alice Englert plays the unknown new girl Lena and we soon realise she
isn't what she seems, as windows decide to smash inwards all on their
own doing, along with bizarre weather patterns that involve lightning
hitting the same place, making the towns folk dust off their bibles and
prayin to the good lord for mercy. But this is a romantic and all the
commotion has an appealing magnetism for Ethan and so instead of
avoiding the 'not so cool girl' that dresses weird and is related to
the towns version of the Boogie man Macon Ravenwood (Irons), he goes
and talks to her getting closer to her feelings than her not so normal
family would like, the idea would be to break them apart and Lena's
Uncle, Macon Ravenwood is determined to do so and who better to play
the role as the intimidating relation but Academy Award winner Jeremy
Irons. Irons brings a life time of experience to the set and to see him
perform in this type of genre is quite different but effective, as he
plays Lena's Uncle we see he cares for her deeply and can be instantly
branded with being an over protective guardian, but who wouldn't be if
your nieces sixteenth birthday would decide whether or not you turn to
the 'Dark or the Light' also known as the 'Claiming' simply put the
Good, or the bad to the bone destroy everything in your path Evil, what
a hurdle to get over right and it's not like anyone wants her to go
Dark yeah? Right well there's that to.With a well written script that involves expressing humanity in a
supernatural world coupled with wit and humour and just the right
amount of special effects this is a fun and entertaining film to see.
It wasn't spectacular but it's worth a look. And I hope someone gives
the two budding actors Alice & Alden another go because they weren't
all that bad.PS If you have read the books and disagree with how the movie panned
out, don't make it your mission in life to hate it, take it for what it
is, they can't make the same magic that a writer can with a pen but
they can get pretty close. I had seen the movie first before I read the
book, there are some major changes. But I liked the performances of the
cast hence the reason for (My score) below. Acting (On all accounts) 8/10 VFX (for what there was) 6/10 Costume &
Design 8/10 Book to Film Adaptation 4.5/10 Genre (Supernatural Romance,
forbidden love, did it fit well in the film?) 7.5/10(My score) 7/10 Personal opinion I found it more enjoyable than Twilight. Worth a look,
possibly not a read, you will probably be disappointed.
