7
Five-Years... Could Have Been Shorter Though

The Five-Year Engagement sees Jason Segel continuing to try and cement
his place as one of Hollywood's greatest comedy actors following The
Muppets and Jeff Who Lives At Home with the help of writing partner
Nicholas Stoller. Segel's latest offering comes in the form of a
romantic comedy when exactly a year after meeting Tom (Segel) proposes
to his girlfriend Violet (Emily Blunt) but unexpected events keep on
getting in their way as they attempt to tie the knot with one another.With most films of this genre you get the same thing over and over
again: boy meets girl, boy and girl fall in love, boy and girl split
up, boy and girl get back together and live happily ever after. In The
Five-Year Engagement what you get is an in depth look at the ins and
outs of a stable relationship as it journeys through the ups and downs
of life. I think that this is a great idea and shows that relationships
don't always run smoothly as plenty of other films would have you
believe. I also believe that The Five-Year Engagement separates itself
from other comedies aimed at an adult audience by being cleverer and,
although we do get to see Jason Segel's rear end on more than one
occasion, a lot of the comedy is very well written and obviously well
put together.There is clear chemistry between the two leads of the film, Jason Segel
and Emily Blunt which is obviously helped by their off screen
friendship and the fact that the two of them have worked together
previously. Segel puts in a great performance but I don't think that we
ever get to see the best of him like we have seen in The Muppets and
television sitcom How I Met Your Mother. He is a very fine comedic
actor though and brings out some good laughs here; I'm not a fan of
Emily Blunt too much and at times her comedy efforts seemed a little
forced. Also, her accent seems overly British even though it's
authentic, how weird is that? The Five-Year Engagement starts off very
well with some hilarious moments and really sets you up for what should
be a laugh a minute film from start to finish. A lot of this is the
emphasis put on the characters of Tom's colleague and friend Alex
(Chris Pratt) and Violet's sister Suzie (Alison Brie). Whilst their
relationship offers very little to the film as a whole their individual
contribution to scenes are very well delivered. Chris Pratt is
wonderfully funny in almost every scene in which he features and a
particular scene featuring Pratt's Alex delivering a presentation of
Tom's former girlfriends is my favourite part of the film and a
brilliantly written and acted scene. Unfortunately, their characters
seem to fizzle out and so does the film itself.There is a reason that most romantic comedies are only an hour and a
half long; the plot cannot sustain a two hour movie without lagging.
The Five-Year Engagement does try and stretch over two hours and you
would think that with five years of a relationship to tell then it
would easily manage this without getting too boring. You would be
wrong. It gets to a point where you think it could be coming to an end
only to realise there is still about half an hour left and after a
while the laughs become a sparse item. Don't get me wrong, The
Five-Year Engagement at times is hilarious and it is definitely a great
romantic comedy with real stock in the lead characters but it tails off
towards the end. It is still, though, definitely worth watching!
