3
Fuqua shouldn't make any more movies

WARNING: Major spoilers in this reviewAntoine Fuqua shows again what a bad director he is. This movie is a
combination of a terrible plot and writing, and bad direction. The only
good thing about this movie is Jake Gyllenhaal and Forest Whitaker.In this movie, you have the champion of the world in boxing, who makes
tens of million of dollars and lives in a mansion, manages in a few
days to somehow lose his wife, his job, his house, his daughter, to
become a drugged/alcohol addict, a suicidal and a potential killer.
This is the plot of a goofy comedy, not a boxing drama. It's ridiculous
and it makes absolutely no sense. It also takes half the movie time and
the situations repeat themselves like a bad soap opera: mistake ->
tragedy - > sad music ... and repeat.The characters are brainless and have moronic motives. Just as an
example, this guy who is so worried about his daughter, has no problem
wanting/trying to commit suicide - and more than once.Rachel McAdams is terrible. From the beginning of the movie I said to
myself that we see her WAY too much - and I knew there was a reason for
that. Showing her tits and body all the time is the fault of the
director. But the bad acting is a combination of bad direction, bad
writing and Rachel fault.A minor getting into a family court for custody case? Are you kidding
me? Was this movie written by a 10-year old? His wife dies and the
first thing he does after the funeral is leave his minor daughter
alone? Did the writer live under a stone or something? This is an
obvious attempt to show us that the character is suffering, but it's
cheap and makes absolutely no sense.Antoine Fuqua is simply a bad director. He can't direct actors and his
movies are just bad. Training Day was a decent movie at best, but
somehow it made him big in Hollywood.Jake Gyllenhaal and Forest Whitaker are the only good thing about this
movie, but they can't save a movie that was so poorly written and
directed.
