3
Gladiator Meets The Titanic... and sinks!

Having travelled to Pompeii, and very much enjoying history... I was
looking forward to this movie. Plus, I'm a Game of Thrones fan and look
forward to seeing some of these actors thrive on the big screen.At the 8min mark, "They call him the Celt". We see Milo nonchalantly
enter the ring, cut up three gladiators, dump his sword, and walk
nonchalantly out. I can't imagine very many gladiators actually wanted
to be in the ring, but they way in which this is all done is a mirror
image of... "They call him Spaniard". You guessed it... "Gladiator".
The more I watched it, the more it seemed like a very cheap over-priced
ripoff of a far superior film. Whether it be the writer, the producer,
or the director... someone had to know they'd crossed the line into
"Gladiator" at some point. Milo meets a seasoned gladiator who at first
opposes him, but they become friends - kinda like Gladiator. They even
re-enacted the Celtic rebellion and the Governor says, "I don't recall
the battle going quite like this", just like the Emperor does in
"Gladiator". To start this Celtic Rebellion re-enactment, Milo has the
men form a line and raise their shields like Maximus does re-enacting
the Battle of Carthage. And when the copycat couldn't get any worse...
the governor, Keifer Sutherland, thrusts out his fist as the crowd
chants "Live! Live! Live!", and he gets the thumbs up.There wasn't a shred of Pompeii in this film until the final 20mins.
Sure, we saw hints of the earth trembling here and there. The whole
Pompeii 'thing' seemed to be JUST a setup to payoff with the two lovers
at the end, encrusted in ash for eternity.Poor films, are poor films, but at least the majority of them are
original poor films - and we can commend the attempt at creativity.
With "Pompeii"? Shame on you people. It's as if you flipped to
Wikipedia to get the geography and a little history, watched Gladiator,
and then studied the "Titanic" to see how to create tension in a 'no
escape' environment.I wouldn't given the film a '5', but there is no excuse for blatantly
ripping off at least one other film. I would've preferred a character
flick. Show us the culture, the every day life, the people... FAIL!!!
