7
Zany Ideas

The Croods seems like it's gonna be just another Dreamworks Animated
film that has crazy little characters messing around with their antics
on a preposterous world. Well, these kinds of films are remarkably fun
and has impressive technical achievements but there's nothing else to
merit in the end. The Crood is almost one of those simple crazy films
if not because of the philosophy that was displayed on the premise.
Basically, it's about a zany version of the prehistoric times and a
survival on the continental drift. The conflict of this plot is the
titular family's choices if they would choose to follow their
overprotective father or a stranger who makes daring ideas to survive
from the natural condition. Disappointingly, the conclusion goes to the
easy way. It doesn't go beyond the comfort zone, but the visuals
transcend. The animation is getting better and better. It's totally fun
but there are things that could have been more complex.Everything is ought to be silly and hilarious. The beginning gives a
set of ridiculous sequences to easily get to know about these
characters. When it finally proceeds to the actual plot, it tells
something sophisticated. It's an opposition between safety and getting
away from your comfort zone. It ends up being obvious when it is
suppose to be complex. But that is what the film wants, be simple and
delightful all the way. The film doesn't necessarily need to be deep or
emotional, but there is something clever to its concept that could have
been smarter.The best thing about the film is the characters. The performances
simply brought them to life. Emma Stone perfectly gives her role a
fitting personality. It sounds perfect for Nicolas Cage to play a
caveman. He yells at a monkey in one scene which is a usual pleasure
from him, but there is more to the Grug character than just yelling.
While Cage is having fun, he brings a strong emotional depth to the
rest of his scenes. The characters of Clark Duke and Cloris Leachman
provide most of the laughs and they effectively show off its joy.The visual effects are even more spectacular than the rest of the
studio's films. Just like their recent films, it's snappy and
energetic. The film's world looks amazingly eye candy and imaginative.
The prehistoric characters and animals are wonderfully designed. The
animal designs are meant to be ironic, like some of them got their food
chain reversed eventually or their hybrid will some day become their
fear. It's a slick joke. And for the 3D, you know it's great as long as
it's from Dreamworks Animation.It leaves a great amount of heart and fun, but its enlightenment theme
results as being underwhelming and somewhat contrived. It would have
made this more than just a typical Dreamworks film, but it doesn't
matter because the movie is definitely suppose to be delightful for the
entire family. It still takes some clever points. It's also great to
see a load of spectacular animation. It is indeed truly enjoyable and
full of life. The Croods is far from classic but this is kind of film
that would enjoy anytime.
