8
Gyllenhaal the Great

Billy Hope is the light heavyweight champion of the world with a 43-0
record. One day, as a result of his uncontrollable violent temper,
tragedy after tragedy hits him and his family until he is left with
nothing -- not his fortune, not his career, not his family. Despondent
and desperate to get his life back, Billy swallows his pride and seeks
the assistance of trainer Tick Wills to train him back to fighting
form."Southpaw" is an acting showcase for its lead actor Jake Gyllenhaal.
Last year in the film "Nightcrawler", Gyllenhaal gave us all the creeps
with his very realistic portrayal of sociopathic pseudo-video
journalist Louis Bloom. He was overlooked at the Oscars of the Best
Actor nomination he clearly deserved. With this meaty role, Gyllenhaal
set out to prove that that his transformative performance last year was
not a fluke at all.His performance here as Billy Hope is another triumph of his very
serious and committed method acting style. Here, Gyllenhaal again
undergoes a total physical transformation into a grizzled prizefighter
with a buff hardened physique, scarred face and swollen eye. We feel
every ache of his weary body as he shuffles in his gait. His speech is
already slurred with probable nerve damage. We see and sense the
ravages of his vicious sport on him.He captured the character of an impulsive man who was not too savvy in
life, and easily driven to violently angry tendencies. As Billy's world
collapses around him, Gyllenhaal brings us all down to his hell with
him. We totally see the unraveling of a man until a mere shadow of him
remained. Then we would witness how he humbles himself as he tries to
bring the shattered pieces of his life back together again. This was in
addition to all the pounding he had in the boxing ring itself. This was
truly an acting tour de force by Gyllenhaal which simply cannot be
ignored.The actors in supporting roles all share in Gyllenhaal's shine. Despite
her name being so prominent in the poster, Rachel McAdams appeared on
screen only for a very short time. In that limited time, we clearly see
the effect of her strong character Maureen on her husband Billy.
Bespectacled little Oona Laurence plays their spirited daughter Leila.
Gyllenhaal and Laurence share some pretty intensely emotional scenes
together.Forest Whitaker plays Tick Wills, the tough disciplinarian of a trainer
whom Billy chose to bring him back on track. I thought it was clever
how they even include Whitaker's left eye into the story. Curtis "50
Cent" Smith plays Billy's fair-weather manager Jordan Mains. He really
has this sleazy vibe about him with his flashy smile and shiny suits.Director Antoine Fuqua effectively wrung all the right emotions out of
this story. The storytelling is well-paced and the camera work is
compelling. The fight scenes were well-choreographed and executed on
screen -- very brutal, bloody, all with high tension. The first person
point of view during the fights puts you right in the midst of all the
action.The musical score contributes so much to the drama of this film. This
is also the last film James Horner scored before his untimely demise in
a plane crash recently. We also hear Eminem rap in the soundtrack. It
is interesting to note that Eminem was actually the original choice to
play Billy Hope.Boxing is a common sport tackled in movies because of its inherent
drama. "Rocky", "Raging Bull", "Million Dollar Baby" and "The Fighter"
easily come to mind as among the best of them ever made. This is why we
may feel we have seen this story In "Southpaw" told in another way
before. However, the grippingly honest acting of Jake Gyllenhaal
definitely set this film apart from others. He made "Southpaw" a most
extraordinary boxing film to watch. 8/10.
