8
Gerald's Game was surprisingly more introspective and less gruesome than I imagined.

Gerald's Game was surprisingly more introspective and less gruesome
than I imagined (except one particularly cringe-worthy scene). From a
viewer who didn't read the Stephen King novel the film was based upon,
I went into the Netflix original prepared to be disturbed. The film
doesn't waste time getting you to the meat of the story. From the start
Carla Gugino gives an emotionally powerful performance as Jessie – a
mentally abused victim struggling to repair a failing marriage - that
sets the tone for the rest of the film. The reluctance she shows toward
her husband Gerald (Bruce Greenwood) forces you to never sit
comfortably as the plot begins to be painted. One of the great strengths of this movie was answering the questions
you were going to ask before you asked them. Understanding from the
beginning that Jessie was to end up handcuffed to a bed throughout the
entirety of the film already had me questioning her inability to
escape. As soon as you see her situation play out and begin to think of
her options, the writers provided answers as to why that isn't possible
in a unique and believable fashion. With the multitude of challenges
she has to overcome she is forced to relive her disturbing past, which
in-turn must help her overcome her shackled state if she is to even
have a chance of surviving.The use of symbolism in this film is constant, but so much so that at
times it seems to spell it out for you, or literally tell you. I felt
the comparisons between her current situation and her past was a bit
too blunt. I would've called for a little less hand-holding and a bit
more mystery surrounding the connections that were made between the men
in her life. Yet one of the most obvious symbols - the blood- red
eclipse – was one that surprised me the most as its representation
transforms into a powerful message of strength. The anchor for this film was Carla Gugino and her amazingly powerful
performance with a great showing from co-star Bruce Greenwood. The
dialogue and thought process that unfolded from the two kept me
emotionally entwined in the story and eager to find out what would
happen next. Along with fantastic performers, Gerald's Game was made
better with the subtlety of the soundtrack and cinematography. I was
more impressed at the times where there was no music playing at all,
which seemed often and was appropriate. It built suspense and kept
focus on the current scene when all the viewers were left with was the
disturbing sounds of her struggle. The eclipse as mentioned was a
favorite of mine. The deep red ring emphasized the horror of events
unfolding, yet transformed with the character and began something
greater. Even after the movie was finished I found myself thinking over the
message that was left for the viewers to contemplate. It was one that I
didn't expect and was glad to see at the same time. Gerald's Game was a
fantastic physiological thriller that never had me shaking my head in
un-believability. I enjoyed the restraint of music in key moments, and
was enthralled by the situation presented. This makes two Stephen King
adaptations that have nailed the difficult process of transforming a
story from a book to film. JordanRoss gives Gerald's Game:8.1/10
