1
An utter waste of your time.

It's rare I give a movie a single star, but I'll do it here. Before
anyone freaks, let me say that the pornography did not in any way
bother me at all. I've seen plenty of porn in my time and all of it,
without exception, was done better than in this film.The problem I have with this movie is more to do with the fact that it
is deadly tedious and boring! No, seriously, with this much T&A in a
film, it still manages to be utterly boring. It is impossible to
empathise with the central female character because she seems so
totally unlikable. She happily screws anyone and anything that she lays
eyes on.As a study of actual nymphomaniacs, I find this rather blunt portrayal
of people with a sexual problem to be gratuitous and sensationalist and
totally without any real concern for the subject matter being
"showcased". It wasn't enough to simply follow the plight of a woman
with a problem, you had to put her into every conceivable sexual cliché
there was, just to get across your point that she was a sex addict?Let me put it this way. If I went to a local porn shop, rented a dozen
different movies about a dozen different aspects of sexual activity,
then spliced the footage together with the non-sexual content from
Nymphomaniac, you wouldn't notice the difference. Everything from
bondage and sado-masochism, to threesomes, anal, oral, lesbianism and
interracial material shows up here. It's like a porno pick 'n' mix!Most of the time I was laughing so much at the utter absurdity of it.
As I said, it's impossible to feel any kind of sympathy for the woman
in the "story" (yeah, I used quotes deliberately there..) because the
whole thing is such a sorry mess.What we have here is another attempt to make a "cerebral" movie that
falls flat on its face. The audience for this movie is unidentifiable.
Those seeking a thoughtful study will be sorely disappointed and those
looking for cheap titillation will find themselves bored to tears most
of the time. Anyone seeking an actual story will likewise be left
feeling cheated.All in all, it fails. Another over-hyped excuse for "cinematic art"
that accomplishes none of its stated goals. If it succeeds, it will be
because people have been suckered into thinking its something that it
isn't.This is so preposterous that I expect the DVD/BluRay release will have
a bright yellow, star-shaped sticker on the front emblazoned with the
words "Contains actual penises and vaginas!" in a sensationalist font.SUMMARY: Pretentious nonsense masquerading as an art movie. Hollow and
dull, relying too much on its much-hyped pornographic content which is,
frankly, dull as ditch water. Best avoided, though it is amusing in a
"train-wreck" kind of way.
