1
every cliché in modern horror movies rolled up into a painful hour and a half

John Luessenhop's Texas Chainsaw 3D is a bad, bad movie. You know this.
I know this. Unfortunately the producers and studio that backed this
latest incarnation of Tobe Hooper's original genre-creating slasher
film ignored what we, the audience, already knew, and decided to milk
the franchise-cow for the sixth (and hopefully, final) time.This new reimagining (as Hollywood likes to call it) starts off
promising with archive footage of the original film. That was the first
five minutes. After that, the movie spirals into unexplained and
implausible territory, asking its audience not only to suspend
disbelief, but disregard it completely.The 2012 version of Texas Chainsaw is a direct sequel of the original,
with the prologue taking place in 1974. Vigilantes show up at the
infamous Sawyer home where the murders of several young adults
literally just happened and proceed to torch it to the ground in a fit
of vengeance. Amongst the chaos, a young Sawyer woman with an infant is
found hiding in the garage. Then, in a laughably inane act of kindness
followed by harsh brutality, one of the vigilantes saves the baby girl
and randomly kicks the Sawyer woman square in the face.If there was anything 2011's The Cabin in the Woods has taught us, it's
that ridiculously attractive young adults will always venture out to
parts unknown for no reason and behave in ways normal human beings
would never agree to in real life given eerie circumstances.Cut to Heather Mills (starring Alexandra Daddario's midriff and
breasts). She finds out she inherited a home in Texas after her
previously unknown grandma passed away while simultaneously discovering
she's adopted. Usually this would tear at the soul of a normal person,
being lied to your entire life by people you thought were your parents,
but no. Heather's first instinct is to collect on her inheritance by
dragging along her boyfriend, Ryan (Tremaine 'Trey Songz' Neverson),
her best friend, Nicole (Tania Raymonde), and Nicole's boy toy (Keram
Malicki-Sanchez) on an impromptu road trip. Along the way, they pick up
a hitchhiker named Darryl (Shaun Sipos), apparently to add to the
inevitable body count.Texas Chainsaw fails to mention the time discrepancy as the original
film took place in the 1970s and this new film clearly states it's
2012. Heather should be pushing 40, but no bother. In a movie like
this, the only thing that matters is the gore, the scantily clad women,
and the infamy of the original.To read the rest of the review (IMDb form too short) visit:
http://custodianfilmcritic.com/Texas- chainsaw-3d/
