1
Disappointed

Oh Hollywood, thank you for your use of music. It's the lube you use as
a courtesy while you attempt to mentally rape me. It's the way you can
make the emptiness seem profound. It's the way you make me feel as if
I've learned a secret of life while being indoctrinated to the
insidiousness of big oil, the heartlessness of corporations, the racism
of Christianity, the crushing of the weak by the rich, the need for an
anti-Capitalist revolution and the beauty of gay love. Your music is
the cherry flavoring of the poison you have once again spoon fed me
through my entertainment, a power you abuse without apology. The idea
of Cloud Atlas, that people are bound through lifetimes, is one that
I'm not sold on. Conversely, the common binding of the same stale
ideology through reincarnations of cinema, sold with the power of
music, that, you have once again demonstrated.As much as I wanted to like this film and as much as I had hoped that
this film would be creative and inspiring, I just found little of value
here. This is just another demonstration of one of thousands of
Hollywood propaganda pieces designed to brainwash the masses through
your entertainment and push a liberal agenda.The gist is nothing deeper than the idea of reincarnation and soul
mates. There is really nothing new that this film adds to any schools
of thought and it contains no idea that you didn't already more
comprehensively examine when you were 19 and stoned.The changing of stories is also nothing new to the movie industry. I've
heard people describe the movie as difficult to understand or complex,
but it's not. Memento was a pioneer in this realm and uncreative
Hollywood types have been milking the technique for all it's worth ever
since. Been there, done that. When stories start skipping around like
this you should realize it's multi-threaded. At that point pay
attention and just go with it and hopefully the director ties
everything up well at the end and you don't realize that you've just
wasted 3 hours with no payoff. Multi-threaded stories are pretty common now. It's how Hollywood makes
you think with a structure rather than a worthy plot. It's how they
create a sense of complexity out of a void and in this scenario makes
it next to impossible to care about any of the stories or characters. The stories were boring, the acting was nothing special at best and I
couldn't care less about any of the characters. At one point a gay man
kills himself. I really don't know why, nor do I care. I know from the
music that the film wanted me to care and to be emotionally invested,
but nope, couldn't care less. The guy that committed suicide seemed
like a self centered egomaniac douche and if there was any
characteristic of him that would make me care about him, I didn't see
it. I think the only character that I remotely liked was the escape
slave, but perhaps just the idea of escaping made me happy after two
hours into this film. As stated above, the music is fine enough and gives you the sense that
you're growing as a person, but when you actually think about it, there
is nothing new, ground-breaking, or even particularly interesting going
on here. I really thought that there was a distinct chance as I was watching,
that the film would take all the little pieces of crap, stick them
together and I would be amazed by the brilliant piece of art that was
revealed. Nope! It was just a bunch of crap stuck together. You were
expecting some genius ending that unfortunately no one had the talent
to produce. Kinda like "Lost". With Lost JJ wrote himself into a box he
did not have the talent to coherently write himself out of, but at
least Lost was interesting along the way.I read another review that stated that there are a lot of people who
are praising this movie because they're afraid that others will think
they're stupid for not getting the movie. I think that is very true
because I have yet to hear one rational explanation of why this film is
not horrible. Here's the bad news, they are stupid. Not because they
are so dumb that they don't get it, but because they're so dumb that
they don't realize there's nothing there to begin with and they don't
possess the mind to question it. I know Tom Hanks is in it. I know
Halle Berry is in it. (SPOILER ALERT: I am about to reveal the most
mind-blowing aspect of this film.) Tom Hanks and Halle Berry can be in
a crap movie! This film is best watched with subtitles as the clarity of the words is
not great in some parts and is obscured by dialects in other parts,
including the ebonicy dialect that adds nothing in the post apocalyptic
story between Hanks and Berry. Not only did that one particular dialect
add nothing, but it subtracted and distracted from the story with how
silly it sounded. It honestly reminded me of Jar Jar Binks and nothing
good reminds you of Jar Jar Binks!Personally, I found my mind drifting and contemplating much deeper
topics such as how much money you could make if you actually went to
Hollywood with the skills to make someone look old rather than plastic.
I'm looking at you too Prometheus! Some of the makeup jobs looked quite
atrocious.If you think you might like a film made up of a nougatty center of
liberal brainwashing with a coating of stale ideas then by all means
see this movie. On the other hand if you can tell the difference
between deep sounding music and actual depth, then you'll probably be
disappointed too.
