2
Even Liam Neeson could not save this one....

Taken 3: Liam Neeson is the king of action movies. He is the ultimate
badass. Every action movie I have seen with Liam Neeson, I have
enjoyed. Every single film... except Taken 3. Liam Neeson tried but
ultimately the movie was terrible. The film suffers from a near non-
existent plot that thinks a lot of car chases and explosions is enough
to make this movie passable- it was not. Not often in an action movie do I find myself getting bored, but it
happened here. During one of the unmemorable scenes of the car chase, I
found myself wondering what Liam Neeson's character Bryan Mills is
trying to accomplish here. The answers was nothing. I thought long and
hard about it throughout the film and came to the conclusion there was
no actual point to the chase. It added nothing to the plot and Bryan
Mills could have easily gotten rid of the cops before they even
hand-cuffed him because of his "very special set of skills" which he
exhibited numerous times throughout the film. Hollywood should know
that, although Liam Neeson is awesome in every way, he is not a
substitute for a well- throughout plot. The script was even worse. The dialogue throughout the movie was
terrible. None of the lines added any depth to the characters. We
already knew the returning characters but the new characters could have
been horrendously murdered and the audience wouldn't have really cared
because the director didn't give any depth to them. Worst of all Forest
Whitaker's character Detective Franck Dotzler was said to be smart
numerous times, but the grand conclusion he makes at the end of the
film is something the audience figured out in ten seconds. I don't want
to give away the big surprise but it has to do with "very tasty
bagels."I honestly felt bad for Liam Neeson during this movie. His acting was
as good as it could be, but the script and plot were terrible. He had
to carry the movie from the very second it started. I know he had a
contract to do the film, but I would have demanded a rewrite if I was
him because it was about a thousand times worse than the original
Taken. Again, Liam Neeson was still incredible as always and only
because of him, watching the movie was not a total waste of time. This movie might be an entertaining movie to watch on DVD or video on
demand. That is a big might though. I do not recommend you see this
movie in theaters and you should only watch it if you are having a
really boring Sunday afternoon. For more of my reviews, go to my website at reviewsbywest.com
