8
With beautiful special effects, and a good enough story to spend a little more than 2 hours with, while it may lack emotional punch, it is undeniably entertaining.

My love for the X-Men was not born due to the comics, or even the
cartoons, it was the video games. So, off the bat, let me say while I
may know characters faces, and a bit about their background, largely I
am quite oblivious to the various universes and stories. So walking in
I didn't know much besides fairly recent news stories dealing with
Rogue's part being cut, to Kitty seemingly being the one who was
supposed to go to the past. Outside of that though, I was a clean
slate. Making the movie quite the experience, even if sometimes
confusing and surely with details lacking.Characters & StorySometime in the future, the sentinels have almost completed a genocide
of not only living mutants, but those who would be the mothers/
fathers, or even grandparents of them. Not only that, mutant allies are
killed. But, there remains hope. Said hope is entrusted in Logan/
Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) who, through Kitty Pride (Ellen Page), is sent
50 years back in time to try to make the reconciliation of Charles
Xavier (James McAvoy/ Patrick Stewart) and Magneto (Michael Fassbender/
Ian McKellen) happen far before both are senior citizens.Along this journey though, there is a need to address Mystique's
(Jennifer Lawrence) position in all that happens, as she seems integral
in either the destruction, or salvation, of mutant kind. All because of
her interactions with one man: Bolivar Trask (Peter Dinklage). The
precursor to William Stryker (Josh Helman), who may not hate mutants,
but surely is aware that with their rise comes mankind becoming
obsolete, or downsized in the grand scheme of things. So, live or die,
that is Mystque's decision, and with Logan having a limited time to
change the past, catching and changing the mind of a highly illusive
woman, with Xavier's help of course, is quite the task.PraiseWith this being a Marvel movie, especially X-Men, the biggest bit of
praise first has to go to the special effects team. Between the fights
against the sentinels, the transformations of Beast (Nicholas Hoult)
and Mystque, as well as watching all mutants involved exhibiting their
powers to varying degrees, it left me in awe enough to forget to take
down notes at times. Also, as most Marvel movies have, there is a good
use of humor, though it unfortunately isn't seen throughout but only in
certain sections. Quicksilver (Evan Peters), for example, probably left
the biggest impression on me because his interactions with Logan,
Magneto and Xavier were hilarious, and definitely a highlight of the
film. Peters way of delivering lines almost seemed Deadpool like.But, if you were to focus just on the story, and set aside the special
effects and jokes, I'm slightly sad to say that the veterans do a far
better job at bringing some sense of emotion to the story than the
newcomers. Naturally, the genuine friendship between Sir Ian McKellen
and Patrick Stewart makes the Magneto/ Professor X saga more than some
re-imagined Malcolm X vs. Martin Luther King Jr. Their complicated
history is masterfully crafted by McKellan and Stewart to the point
they eclipse the other actors for their performances have various
degrees of emotion, while everyone else seemingly only exhibit fear or
self- loathing.CriticismAnd with that said, being someone who increasingly has watched Marvel
films, I have to say I found it odd that the film with the largest
amount of misfits, and those that have suffered, didn't lead to
stronger performances. Which isn't to say they weren't good, though
more so adequate, but perhaps with McKellen and Stewart there, using
their veteran experience on how you could get a point, or feeling,
across without overdoing it, in comparison it just makes the other
actors look just good enough. Take for example the two major
relationships in the movie: Young Xavier and Magneto, and Young Xavier
and Mystique. Considering all that happens in the past is what is
supposed to build toward the future, be it lost chemistry, or perhaps
too many special effects to take into consideration, I found it hard to
get lost in characters interacting and sensing a serious connection
between them. Making it where the film leaped from past to present, it
was like dealing with a bright enough light bulb to one which was
luminous.Which to me was weird since in First Class there was good chemistry.
But in this film there lacks consistency. Like a flickering light bulb
you know you just put in, you know what should happen, and that it
worked in the past, but don't understand why things aren't working now.
And while I must note time constraints make it so long heart to hearts
aren't possible in the film, I do feel like this was perhaps one of the
few Marvel films, for me, which probably focused more the action and
effects than it did characters and the story.Overall: Worth SeeingThough I must admit I felt a bit disappointed that the movie lacked a
sense of heart, the drama of impending doom, watching Ian McKellen and
Patrick Stewart interact, as well as seeing all my favorite mutants,
push this toward being a "Worth Seeing.". For really, what comic book
movie is really trying to aim for Oscar nominations? They are purely
aimed at entertaining and keeping the franchise's name out there. And
while I feel this film may not inspire someone to develop further
knowledge of the X-Men universe to spoil the sequel, it is certainly
good enough to keep you loyal.
