4
A Great Archetype of The Hollywood Business

After a massive let down from watching the first movie, I was
surprisingly curious enough to wonder where the story would go in the
second. My main issue in the first film was a lack of a compelling and
believable story, but I walked in the theater to see this one anyway,
hoping the film makers sought redemption for what was so abysmal. It
didn't surprise me much however to find that story was once again dry,
rigid, and crusted over with garbage, just like a dog turd on a summer
sidewalk.The story continues directly from the events following the victory of
Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark in the hunger games. President Snow
crafts the two characters towards into public figures, forcing them to
positively represent the government to gain more popularity for the
hunger games. The movie actually starts out quite promising as we see a
great deal of tension growing between the districts and the state. We
see the very beginning of martial law come into effect, rebels planning
to coalesce, and fear permeating through the characters. It looks very
good, until Hollywood decides drop by the scriptwriters' office with
another visit. This movie's only purpose is to give you hope of
something good and then crush by sending you back to the train wreck of
a film we experienced in the first movie. By this point, if you haven't
done so already, get ready to kick back and watch the nonsensical
onslaught continue. That's right, you're in for another hunger game!About less than halfway into the movie, the viewer is virtually left
watching the first movie all over again. The director should have saved
time filming and simply cut and paste the first movie in at this point.
While the characters are busy killing each other for the second time,
it is hard not to hope that we will get some more information about
what is happening on the home front. What is the government doing? How
are the districts reacting? How are the families of the main characters
in district 12? Rather than our questions getting answered, all we get
are some more scenes of Katniss and her bow, Peeta falling in love with
her for the second time, and poorly developed characters (who we are
supposed to feel sorry for) die. Also, similarly to the first movie, we
see more attempts of intimidation among the players, chances to win
sponsorships, lots of prep talk before the big fight, and a shot of all
of the contestants broadcasted in their kooky outfits before they get
shipped off to the slaughter house.There are a few things I should probably mention before some fans of
the movie do. Not that it matters, but the hunger game in this movie is
slightly different from that of the first. In response to the uproars
in the districts, the government expresses their displeasure by sending
previous victors from each district back into the hunger games. This
really makes no difference for the viewer, since we see over 20 new
bloodthirsty contestants besides Katniss and Peeta anyway. A few other
trivial differences include the new arena the game takes place in. This
time, the characters start the fight in the water rather than on land.
Also, the whole arena is apparently bigger (even though it just looks
like another forest), and there are environmental hazards that occur on
an hourly schedule. It really doesn't matter, and it is painful to
think that the filmmakers think they can win their audience over with
such a frivolous change. In my opinion, the only thing that this
franchise really has that wins its popularity is their main cast,
Jennifer Lawrence. But that doesn't fix the story. The essence of the
film is still fundamentally flawed. It is no different than trying to
treat the scent of a puddle of diarrhea with fabreeze air freshener!At one point in the movie, Katniss and her friends contrive a plot to
eliminate the remaining contestants. Out of nowhere, in the middle of
the plan's execution, she somehow figures out how to escape the arena,
and the entire infrastructure collapses. Suddenly Katniss is rescued by
a ship, as if the whole plan to escape was coordinated from the
beginning, and she requests to return to her home. She and the audience
learn that district 12 has been destroyed. The movie ends. A long
silence follows until the credits roll along with an animation of the
mocking jay pin. Not only is this one of the most abrupt and
unsatisfying endings to a film in the history of films, but the
director adds insult to injury as he essentially tells us, "Too bad,
you missed out on all of the important stuff that happened in the real
world, and instead, you got to watch the first movie over again!" Not
only do we get a repeat of what already happened, but we are left in
complete darkness and miss out of every single detail that could have
potentially progressed the storyline. The movie could have literally
been cut in half if the whole hunger game was removed, and we still
would have gotten the same amount of essence from the story. This movie is a prime example of how Hollywood takes something with a
lot of potential and strips it of all nutrients until it becomes as
bare as a pile of elephant dung. The film is nothing more than a
monotonous moneymaking expedient that deserves to be flushed down the
toilet! The only reason why I regard it slightly higher than the first
is for the first few scenes of the movie that actually grabbed my
attention. In retrospect, that momentary grasp of interest wasn't worth
the other two hours of an appalling scam.
