10
Soaring Way Up High

How to Train Your Dragon 2 follows the common rule of sequels by making
everything bigger, even though that isn't always enough to justify the
series. In fact, it usually leads the franchise into a disaster, and
thankfully this film is one of the rare which lives up to its promise.
While it already provides the most breathtaking action and impressive
visuals, it also able to expand the universe and give huge room for
nice warmth beneath the bombast. Once again, the studio has put aside
their recent style of broader gags and bullet speed pacing and settle
down for a real storytelling that reminds us why animated movies are so
appealing anyway. How to Train Your Dragon 2 has given all what you've
wished for as a great sequel.The plot sure does heightened into an epic installment, it could have
been an easy throw away of cool effects, battle sequences, and humor,
but the movie is smart to keep on following its own roots by settling
more on the characterization of their world and Hiccup's life with his
dragon and the tribe. To keep it from being a wheel spinning visual
showcase, the story embeds itself with full of inspired emotions,
example is when it explores the icy dragon cave. It wasn't only an
exposition, it is mainly a developing relationship between Hiccup and
his long-lost mother. The quieter moments of letting the once
disconnected family reunite again captures the same heart of the boy
and dragon friendship of the first movie, which certainly made it
pretty endearing.The film also spends its time exploring more places around and beyond
the Isle of Berk. It's quite interesting to let the years pass by and
make the young vikings grow mature, and how it depicts their maturity
is pretty clever, like the hormonal attraction of Snotlout and Fishlegs
to Ruffnut, in spite of fact their comic relief get a a bit way out of
hand. The dragon species were also given enough intriguing details,
essentially for the plot, which sort of recalls the book series of
Cressida Cowell. This is a rich universe that makes the whole journey
even bigger.The voice acting is predictably great. Jay Baruchel still brings the
same earnestness to Hiccup even when the character's new appearance has
outgrown his voice. Gerard Butler remains to be perfect as Stoick The
Vast, he lends more gravity to the character in this one. Cate
Blanchett joins in and she appropriately gives a great amount of warmth
to the role. The other cast did well enough at keeping things much
alive. For the filmmaking, the direction handles a better pacing
compared to the other quicker cuts of the last few animated films. It's
an easier way to watch by concentrating each scene of getting know of
the characters, either with or without any dialogue. The flying scenes
have always been a tremendous ride with scale and fortitude. John
Powell's score helps making it feel much powerful, and it gets even
better with a Jónsi﻿ song in it.Apart from Disney, these are the only animated films of Hollywood today
that have a wider ambition other than selling off kids with cool
visuals and absurdist humor. There is an actual story to be found here,
even without following its source material. The typical elements of
Dreamworks are still there, but is hardly noticed. It's nearly like the
first film, except of course it's larger. It does justice to today's
family fare, somewhat forgetting the current mediocrity and rather
fills it with inspiration from the past. One thing that is missing in
most of the genre's attempt of transcending their films is the
sincerity to its heart. Every affection in How To Train Your Dragon 2
never felt forced and right there it soars way up high. And if we have
learned something about training dragons from the past, then it is the
same thing about sequels: You don't just yell at it.
