1
Good opening, then limps to nowhere

Jim Carrey is uncredited. I wondered why. Then I watched the movie.Thing is, I watched the first 20 minutes, then put it aside, thinking
that my wife's sister's family, who are fans of edgy cinema and were
soon to visit us, would be down for an aprés apocalypse mindfock like
this.They, like me, enjoyed the first 20 minutes. Hardly any dialogue (in a
good way), some nice directorial flourishes, a more than adequate set
up. Lots of promise. A good skeleton on which to put some meat.A young woman is banished to a lawless territory in the desert, is
kidnapped by what turns out to be a community of iron-pumping
cannibals, has an arm and a leg amputated (and her wounds cauterized,
presumably so that the rest of her can also be eaten or, you know,
otherwise put to use), then manages to free herself and find her way to
a place called Comfort where the people eat noodles and chicken
instead.I assumed what would follow would be a story of revenge and rescue, the
goodies of Comfort taking down the baddies at the Venice Beach
barbecue, maybe with some explanation as to how the people of Comfort
get access to gasoline, photocopiers, rice noodles and all the
recreational pharma you could hope for. (My guess was that there would
be some connection to a group outside the lawless land, perhaps some
sort of probably not-so-kosher arrangement between Keanu Reeves's Jim
Jones knockoff and his inworld suppliers.)No answers came. None.Despite a severe underbite, Jim Carrey managed to chew what little
scenery there was and he was still the best thing in the film by a long
walk. The moment he hands Momoa a snowglobe was when I knew I wasn't
coming back. The movie had left me in my own offworld without a clue
where I was going or what would happen to me when I got there.Loooong story short, the girl falls in love with Momoa's Atkins
aficionado after eating some Guatemalan insanity peppers and tripping
out like she ate a bad oatmeal cookie at a Grateful Dead concert.There's some other stuff. A kid who likes spaghetti elbows more than
actual elbows and who cries when her Daddy and her new stepmom eat her
pet rabbit; a homeless philosopher dude played by Ribisi, channeling an
amalgam of all those fidgety weirdos that Brad Pitt used to play; and
almost no dialogue not spoken by Reeves, whose explanation of where his
dookie go goes on for about nine minutes.But it is bad enough to be a fun watch with friends who like movies
made without scripts by people who can't make a movie without a script.
Which is most people.Seriously, I want to know the backstory to this debacle. My guess:
Super-talented young director makes great movie, gets noticed, then
gets one of those bags with the two dollar signs on it and access to
Harvey Weinstein's rolodex while he's in the bath. But the movie has to
be made in 10 days because Jim has a showing of his larger canvases at
a gallery where people will hand him bags with two dollar signs on them
because he's Jim Carrey, not because he's actually a talented sculptor
and painter.Or Jim shook the snowglobe and handed it to the director, saying (with
only his eyes), "Before the snow has settled within, the script must be
written."
