4
Crucial plot device similarities to 'Red Planet'

"The Martian" and "Red Planet" I'm kind of surprised that no one has noticed the similarities "The
Martian" has to "Red Planet" with Val Kilmer, released in 2000. Here's
a few noteworthy(?) plot devices that were first seen in "Red Planet"
that seem to have coincidental reappearances in "The Martian". 1. RP - Val Kilmer, by accident marooned on Mars (with other guys who get
killed off, leaving him alone),and a female commander of the mission up
in space (who eventually saves him). TM - Matt Damon, by accident marooned on Mars, alone, and a female
commander of the mission up in space (who eventually saves him).2. RP - Val finds the Sojourner rover (which luckily just happens to be
nearby) and modifies it to call for help. TM - Matt finds the Sojourner rover (which luckily just happens to be
nearby) and modifies it to call for help.3. RP - The female mission commander makes the decision to stay in orbit
and try to save Val. TM - The female mission commander makes the decision to go back and try
to save Matt. (as cold blooded as this sounds, this is the least
likelier of the two scenarios that would have the possibility to
actually happen, in reality they'd let him 'fend for himself'.) 4. RP - Val must make a long arduous journey to get to a Russian sample
return launcher. TM - Matt must make a long arduous journey to get to a NASA mission
return launcher.5. RP - Val has to modify the sample return launcher to make it work,
leaving him exposed to space when it launches.TM - Matt has to modify the mission return launcher to make it work, he
ends up being exposed to space when it launches.6. RP - The return launcher fouls up as it goes into space with Val
aboard, requiring his mission commander to go out on a tether and
retrieve him. TM - The return launcher fouls up as it goes into space with Matt
aboard, requiring one of the crew to go out on a tether and retrieve
him.** Of course Matt didn't have the inconvenience of the robot dog who
was trying to kill him as Val had to contend with; but Val discovered
he could breathe the Martian air that was generated by the seeded
algae. So things even out pretty well. No one else noticed these because likely no one saw "Red Planet", which
while not a big hit is not without its own goofy personality charms.
