6
Enjoyable when it centers on the family dynamics, but fails as a courthouse thriller

"My father is a lot of unpleasant things, but murderer is not one of
them."The Judge may not be the highly effective powerhouse courtroom drama we
were expecting when we first heard about the pairing of Robert Downey
Jr and Robert Duvall, but it isn't the terrible film some critics are
describing it as either. Most of us had high expectations for The Judge
but once the first reviews started coming in my expectations were
lowered so I went into this with moderate expectations. It is a
somewhat effective melodrama when it centers on the father and son
family dynamics, but when it tries to include other subplots like the
courtroom drama scenes and the relationship with a former lover, the
film falls flat and feels overlong. Director David Dobbin succeeds when he gets Robert Downey Jr and Robert
Duvall in a room together. Those are the most effective scenes of the
film and they standout because both actors are on the top of their
game. Dobbin however fails when he tries to cram other dramatic
elements into this film, and he does so way too often. At 144 minutes,
The Judge could have been more effective if it were cut short and
centered exclusively on the family dynamics rather than on the rest of
the subplots that Dobbin is cramming into the film. The problem is that
Dobbin is trying too hard to make a serious film since this is his
first time directing a non-comedy. Audiences who were expecting a Grisham style courtroom drama will be
disappointed because that aspect of the story falls flat, but as a film
centering on a dysfunctional father and son relationship it succeeds
thanks to the two lead actors. When the two Roberts get together The
Judge pulls at your heart strings effectively, but the rest of the
scenes do feel clichéd and manipulative (especially the scenes
involving those home movie projections). I also enjoyed this as a
character study of the different family dynamics and I appreciated the
films intentions about giving an honest portrayal of aging through
Duvall's character. There are some powerful scenes, but they are ruined
sometimes by the clichés the film follows.Aside from Robert Downey Jr and Robert Duvall's powerful performances
(they are both at their best here), there is also a very interesting
supporting performances from Vincent D'Onofrio. His scenes with Downey
are relevant as well and he holds his own. Billy Bob Thornton doesn't
really get much character development considering the court case is
simply included as an excuse to keep this family together. Farming is a
wonderful actress and she gives a strong performance as well, but her
scenes really don't add anything to the film and their subplot could
have been left out. The premise of the film isn't anything we haven't seen before either.
The story centers on a hot shot lawyer from a big city who is returning
to the small town he grew up and ran away from, for his mother's
funeral. He doesn't want to stay long because his relationship with his
father is a disaster and we get a glimpse of it early on. Those scenes
are powerful but not entirely original. Downey plays the smart mouth
witty son to perfection, while Duvall is the uptight and stern father
who he can easily play in his sleep. The only moment where Duvall and
Downey were on screen together that didn't work for me was when they
begin discussing their personal issues while his father stands on
trial. That was just one example of a forced moment where melodrama
seemed more important than authenticity. There are several moments like
this that hurt this film, but the few authentic moments are powerful
enough to recommend this it. The Judge isn't a bad film, it's just one
that had the potential to be so much more.
