9
An incredible mindtrip

Wow! DOCTOR STRANGE is an incredible mindtrip. Its VFX alone makes
Christopher Nolan's 'Inception' look like some kind of beta test. And
this film is so much fun, it's hilarious, it's got some of the most
complex, most elaborate action sequences I've seen all year, and I
can't stop geekin' out about the cloak of levitation. This is Benedict
Cumberbatch making his grand entrance into the Marvel Cinematic
Universe.Directed by Scott Derrickson who helped provide the script, DOCTOR
STRANGE is about a successful, talented, arrogant neurosurgeon, Doctor
Stephen Strange (Benedict Cumberbatch). Suddenly, a tragic car accident
leaves Strange's hands permanently damaged, which means he can no
longer perform surgery. After trying western medicine, he hears of a
man who was badly injured and then got miraculously healed, this leads
Strange to the secrets of a hidden world of alternate dimensions. Under
the teaching and guidance of the Ancient One (Tilda Swinton) Strange
unleashes metaphysical abilities and ultimately takes on the
responsibility of protecting earth from mystical threats.Created by Marvel's legendary artist, Steve Ditko, the character Doctor
Strange is a very unique one because he's not a product of some kind of
technological armor, he's not a nordic god nor a space alien, and he
doesn't get his powers from super serum nor gamma rays, and so kudos to
Marvel Studios for taking a chance on this one of a kind character
because it makes for an unbelievably fantastic origin story on screen
that's just different from the rest of the bunch that Marvel has
introduced to us so far. And there's just something refreshing about
that.What a great cast, they could not have picked a better lead star,
Benedict Cumberbatch knocks it out of the park. Whenever Strange gets a
bit cocky, you can see a little bit of Cumberbatch's Sherlock attitude
kicking in there. But Strange is more quick to sensibility whereas
Sherlock would still have to put them all through his reasoning
filters. And Cumberbatch's sense of humor is absolutely sharp. There's
a ton of funny moments in this film but they never take away from the
problem at hand or what Strange has to tackle at that very moment.I'm Asian but I'm not bothered by Tilda Swinton playing the Ancient
One, I understand this is supposedly the film's biggest controversy but
the fact of the matter is that once you've seen DOCTOR STRANGE, you'll
understand why Tilda is perfect in this role. The woman is an
impeccable actress and she exudes the specific wisdom needed for this
because in many ways, when you deal with a monastery-like setting where
people learn martial art and philosophies about self- control, the
expectation is that the master would preach parables, analogies, or
metaphors in bestowing that wisdom and Tilda does it with ease like
David Carradine's Kwai Chang Caine from the old "Kung Fu" series.Mads Mikkelsen's Kaecilius, I gotta say, is not my favorite villain in
MCU, I think Mikkelsen does a fine job but the character just doesn't
land for me. But I gotta give Scott Derrickson and his co-writers much
credit for introducing as many elements as they could from Doctor
Strange comic books including Dormammu, and so those who watch the film
and may be confused by the jargons, like the Eye of Agamotto, can go to
the comic books and discover why it is important to include those in a
Doctor Strange movie along with the manipulation of space, energy and
time which is also another big deal. And that leads me to what I think
is the film's most amazing appeal,.. seeing buildings bend over on
itself, characters teleporting, and the insane things that the cloak of
levitation can do because it carries its own consciousness. It really
doesn't get more of a movie magic than DOCTOR STRANGE.-- Rama's Screen --
