8
The best Iron man movie BUT failed short of a peek

To date this is the best Iron man movie without any doubt in my mind. I
rarely give movies a rating of 8 and above and I nearly gave this movie
a 9. The problem with this movie isn't so much the story or the
characters as they all perform beautifully. Tony Stark is as always
very well portrayed, Pepper and Warmachine all spot on. The acting is
superb and not to be questioned. The visual effects are spot on, the
editing however... and here begin the problems. I believe that in Iron Man 3 one of two things happened: they either
had too much or too little footage. I am willing to bet that they had
allot more footage than screen time allowed. Now this is great for
later BRD releases with more movie time but it becomes somewhat odd in
the cinema. The ending felt very rushed for what would've been a full
climactic peek of the series that would sum up Tony's mental and
physical struggle with his body and his philosophic battle to overcome
an illness by building a shell around to protect him. We have all felt
vulnerable once or twice in our life but he depicts a man of a serious
illness who if given the chance could be perfectly able to climb to the
top of a mountain and back. Due to his health restrictions he pretends
to be the super hero rather than actually being one...makes sense? Tony
wants to be seen and remembered as a remarkable genius but he has to
overplay what he doesn't have in health with that which he has in
intellect and character; and so Iron Man is born. Sadly Iron Man 3 does
everything right for the most part and when the time finally comes to
reach that high peek when things really matter (at the very end of the
movie) the scenes rush through and leave you gasping for air. biting
the pillow in agony. What makes me really angry is the amount of time they spent in the
initial build up of the Mandarin (who is a legit comic book villain)
only to make him out to be a run of the mill "b class" actor. They
would've cut to the point and shortened the early scenes in favor for
more time at the end to really see Tony Stark with a healed heart.
Maybe we could have a scene where him and peeper watch a sunrise and
tears fall out of his eyes, the burden of illness never there anymore,
or where he runs on a field not worried that he will pass out or have
some type of cardiac arrest... just a little bit more of how his life
improves with his new heart, how he escapes the very thing that most
people can't escape with chronic illnesses. I also didn't like the scene in the plane where Iron Man drops down and
save everyone in mid air; dare I say that it didn't feel realistic or
believable? There was an absence of real sacrifice as everyone no one
really dies and the "bad guys" are more of a nuisance than legit
trouble. Aside from the mentioned above however, I really did enjoy everything
else in the film. There was nothing that was negative about it, I
highly recommend this movie and if you're a fan of the trilogy you will
certainly love this more than the rest.For me 8/10 an excellent movie, great visual and auditory experience.
Excellent acting, the story works out very well, the flow is superb and
although a few issues regarding visual time (for certain scenes) and
"belive-ability", in others the overall message of Iron Mans struggle
is well understand.
