2
Life sucks and then you die

On behalf of all movie goers with semblance of common sense I would
like to caution everyone who passed 10 Grade Science against seeing
this movie. You'd spend 2 hours screaming at the screen and if you have
a background in a field of science your head will explode. Don't say I
didn't warn you...A carbon based life form on Mars survived in hibernation the billions
of years since the planet lost its atmosphere. OK, why not, I can bend
that far. So far I am with you. The crew of the International Space Station gets incredibly lucky in an
intergalactic game of catch with the pod carrying soil samples. This is
starting to be problematic but stranger things have happened.But the next scene broke the suspension bridge to my disbelief. The
paraplegic biologist with severely misplaced paternal instincts,
wearing no protective suit what so ever opens the samples in a box
separated from the lab by a pair of kitchen gloves. There is no
protocol in place for decontamination or isolation. There is no
quarantine, open the door of the lab and you are in the company of the
crew waiting to be slaughtered. As things start to go wrong we find out
that air is supplied to the lab through vents that can only be shut
down one at the time, they lead directly into the life support system
of the station and the pressure inside of it is produced by magic. To
top it all off a member of the crew who is from the CDC so presumably
studied pathogens in Earth-bound labs had no problem with this set up
what so ever. They figure out that this single cell organism needs 20 degrees Celsius
and a very specific oxygen and CO2 mix to come back to a live state.
Good news to the audience is that when the temp is accidentally lowered
the creature goes back to napping. Although we are moving along the
story line of Alien which means there will only be one survivor we are
made to think that maybe the amateurs who built the lab will not have
caused the demise of the crew and the creature is at least in for a
good fight. But no such luck. The creature eats a rat and Ryan Reynolds
which in turn makes it able to survive the minus 270 degrees Celsius
temperature and zero pressure of open space. If it's all that it takes
we should consider this before we start colonizing space.I gave it a total of 3 stars, one for the scenes of zero gravity
conditions and one for the acting then deducted one for the ending on
behalf of NASA. I don't care how adaptable the Mars alien is it can't
go from a single cell to piloting for a successful re-entry in Earth's
atmosphere in 24 hours.
