4
"Paper Towns" is well-intentioned but disappointing.

When reviewing a movie based on a book, should the reviewer make the
movie's story part of the commentary, even if the movie's plot matches
the book's plot closely? I say yes. And I'll go even further. I don't
think it's necessary for the reviewer to read the book before reviewing
the movie. Here's why: A movie reviewer reviews movies, not books. A
movie has to stand on its own, whether the viewer has read the book or
not (and, usually, the majority haven't). Now, if I haven't read the
book, after I see the movie, I'll do some background research on the
differences between the two so I can include that information in my
review, but I'm still only going to judge aspects of the movie as they
contribute to the whole. Take the movie "Paper Towns" (PG-13, 1:49) for
example. Although I haven't read the book, I have read enough about the
book to compare them, but I'm still only judging what appeared on
screen.I say all that to say this: "Live life to the fullest." There. I just
saved you almost two hours. That's really all this movie is about.
Didn't care for the story. Didn't care for the movie. Still, I do owe
you more than that, so, as always, I'll tell you about the actors and
the plot (without spoilers), I'll explain the grade I've given the
movie, including what I think wasn't good and what was good (because,
after all, there's some of both in almost every movie). And whether you
think the book was better than the movie or the movie was better than
the book is irrelevant. This is a movie review. Ya feel me? Cool.
Onward and upward The movie takes its title from the 2008 book by John
Green (author of "The Fault in Our Stars"). In the eyes of one of the
story's central characters, paper towns are cities in which people
("paper people") go about their hum-drum lives without really living.
The title also carries a literal real-world meaning. The title is a
reference to the cartographers' practice of putting fake places onto
the maps they make to deter copyright infringement (or catch anyone who
does such infringing). These plagiarism traps have several names,
including paper towns. One such paper town is Agloe (in New York
State's Catskill Mountains), which is where the story's climax takes
place. But the story begins in Orlando, Florida.Quentin "Q" Jacobsen (Nat Wolff) fell in love with Margo Roth
Spiegelman (model-singer-actress Cara Delevingne) when her family moved
in across the street from his. Both kids were in elementary school, but
it was love at first sight for him. It was friendship for her and then
it wasn't even that. Q and Margo drifted apart. As high school seniors,
they don't even acknowledge each other anymore. She's beautiful,
free-spirited and mysterious (as she has always been) and hangs out
with the other popular kids. Q is socially awkward and the opposite of
adventurous and hangs out with his two best friends and fellow band
students, Ben Starling (Austin Abrams) and Marcus "Radar" Lincoln
(Justice Smith).The action really starts one night when Margo crawls in through Q's
bedroom window and asks to borrow his car to pull revenge pranks on her
cheating boyfriend and others whom she feels have betrayed her. Q
reluctantly agrees to be her getaway driver, and even helps a bit. Over
the course of the night, he admits that he had fun and he begins to
hope that this experience will rekindle his dormant friendship with
Margo and maybe lead to something more. His hopes are soon dashed when
Margo goes missing. Her parents believe that she has run away (for the
fifth time), and now that she's 18, they aren't even going to look for
her. Both Q and Lacey Pemberton (Halston Sage), Margo's best friend,
want to know what happened to Margo, but they haven't a clue yet."Margo always loved mysteries," Q tells us in his brief narration at
the beginning of the film. "So much that she became one." Margo may be
a gone girl, but she left clues, which lead Q, Ben and Radar to search
Margo's room, take her bedroom door off its hinges, go to an abandoned
building in a shady part of town and, eventually take a long road trip,
joined by Radar's girlfriend, Angela (Jaz Sinclair) and Lacey, on whom
Ben has a crush (when he's not lusting after Q's mother). Through all
this, the film omits some of the episodes in the book (as almost all
film adaptations have to do), but keeps all the most important plot
points (including the ending), as well as the "moral of the story"."Paper Towns" has a worthwhile message, but takes as long to get there
as driving from Florida to New York. The story's original enough, but
it's highly unrealistic. The actors are appealing and the film treats
the teens like real people, but they seem abnormally worldly for their
ages and their angst sometimes annoyingly plays out as nothing more
than (mostly) spoiled rich white kids complaining about their lives.
Lastly, after emotionally investing (as much I could) in these
characters, as well as almost two hours of my time, I found the ending
frustrating. "Paper Towns" is as disappointing as a sightseeing trip to
Agloe, New York. "C"
