8
A potent cannibal awakening story

We have all seen the umpteen coming-of-age or sexual awakening story,
but when is the last time you saw a becoming-a-cannibal story? This is
one incredibly muscular piece of filmmaking, marrying visual poetry
with slow-burn horror into one potent and delectable dish. Debut
writer-director Julia Ducournau knows exactly what she wanted to do and
did it, and the resultant film is a different breed of horror with no
cheap jump scares and with the camera never flinching from all body and
animal horror. During a screening at the 2016 Toronto International Film Festival,
some viewers received emergency medical services after allegedly
fainting from the film's graphic scenes. IMHO, this notoriety does it a
huge disservice. Perhaps the viewers went into the cinema with an empty
stomach or have a weak disposition for copious blood and body horror
because Raw is never tacky or cheesy in its depiction of its terror.
Ducournau knows the medium well and employs a plethora of aesthetics to
drive the terror home. The cinematography is fluid and complicit in the
sinister going-ons; it somehow manages to glide seamlessly to places we
don't want to go (under the bed covers, in a toilet where blue and
yellow collide) and see stuff that we don't want to see (rashes on
young flesh). I am never ever going to forget a scene in which a poor
horse get tranquillised, a mouth restraint slapped on it, gets tied up
and turned upside down in a harness. It was spine-chilling and my mind
kept whispering prayers that it will be fine. The takes are long and
languid, but purposeful and place us in the thick of things. It felt
like I was given full access to an accident site and I was led to study
in closed-up the twisted metal and the mangled bodies. I couldn't look
away even though I wanted to. The shots are superbly lighted,
disconcerting and symbolically rich. Ogle in amazement as the camera
follows Justine in the first night of hazing to a make-shift
discotheque that resembles hell itself. IMHO the genius of this lean and mean film is that it manages to make
us feel for Justine. We feel the revolting disgust churning inside her
as she, a lifelong virginal vegetarian, is forced to swallow a raw
offal from a rabbit. The angry crimnson rash that flares up all over
her is a manifestation of her disgust, but soon it awakens her
cannibalistic core. In Garance Marillier, Ducournau has found the
perfect Justine. Her transformation arc is magnificent and her
multi-layered performance is career-defining. I still cannot forget the
scene of her jiving sexily in front of the mirror, becoming aware of
herself sexually. She exudes an animalistic energy so thick and heavy,
she fused the scenes together in absolute dread. Her eventual
deflowering scene, coupled with the birth of her cannibalistic
leanings, is presented in total nerve-wrecking literalness. Raw isn't for everybody. I wouldn't even say a horror fan will like it.
It has an art-house feel to it that may turn some people away. But it
is a bold film, sublimely realised, erotic, feral, primal and it will
play on your senses long after it is over.
