8
The Hobbit turns out to be a rather unexpected delight

Firstly, I have to make a statement- the LOTR movies, for me, have set
an impossibly high bar both in this universe and within the movie world
as a whole. Their cinematic beauty and value cannot be denied.The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey, however, is an entirely different
movie. Sure, it's set in the world of Middle Earth, but that's really
about all it holds in common with the aforementioned trilogy, alongside
a few familiar faces. Many members of the audience I was in complained
that the movie took a long time to get going, but it actually was paced
rather well, with a suitably sized introduction with Ian Holm and
Elijah Wood making way for the current storyline. The first thing you
notice as a viewer is that this movie is notably funnier. Whilst the
LOTR trilogy had it's lighter moments, The Hobbit revels in the lighter
side of life, with lots of genuinely hilarious moments interspersing
themselves with scenes of real peril.The visually stunning moments are
still there, and whilst I saw this movie in 2D, some moments would have
been absolutely perfect in 3D. At first, it's a little difficult to get
into, especially when the light-hearted opening with the countless
visiting dwarfs gets underway. However, if you can remind yourself as a
viewer that The Hobbit was a book written for a much younger,
impressionable audience, then you'll likely have a good time watching
this. That said, it is far from childish, and although it is a lighter,
more fun affair, there are still many parts within the story that an
adult audience can relate to.Martin Freeman has been a firm favourite of mine since his humble
beginnings on British terrestrial television, and seeing him here on
the big screen is both a welcome and bizarre experience. That said, his
demeanour and technique are perfect for the role of Bilbo Baggins, as
he exudes the homely, simple manner of a Hobbit very effectively. Ian
McKellen is perfect as everyone's favourite wizard, and Richard
Armitage (another former British television star playing his trade to
the silver screen)is a brilliant Thorin (son of Thrain!), mixing a
toughened heart with a tortured soul. If anything, Thorin may turn out
to be the true hero of the piece. The rest of the dwarfs are also
brilliant, and many of them are the highlights of the movie.The special effects are once again spectacular, with the eye wateringly
stunning rock giant battle a particularly memorable moment. The makeup
effects are up to the job, too, and the attention to detail is
ridiculous, right down to the individual scratches and weathered look
of the weapons the characters wield. If you enjoyed the LOTR trilogy,
then Peter Jackson will have you in awe again, although The Hobbit
trilogy looks set to be a much more relaxed and 'fun' adventure. At the
end of the day, the only complain to be made about the movie is that it
simply isn't LOTR. Those movies set such a high level that even Peter
Jackson himself can't seem to top them with this effort, but that's a
minor complain for what is otherwise I very well made movie.Cinematic, adventurous, enjoyable and epic- The Hobbit: An Unexpected
Journey knows its audience and caters to them very well indeed.
