8
Unsettling and interesting despite flaws.

"The Killing of a Sacred Deer" (2017) is a tense psychological thriller
directed by Yorgos Lanthimos. Dr. Stephen Murphy (Colin Farrell) finds
himself in an unsettling situation when an old patient of his, Martin
(Barry Keoghan), intrudes into his life and tinges his seemingly
idyllic family: his wife Anna (Nicole Kidman) and children Kim (Raffey
Cassidy) and Bob (Sunny Suljic). The story, written by Yorgos Lanthimos and Efthimis Filippou, builds up
tension with a slow pace at first. The dialog felt edgy, sometimes
preposterous and sometimes comical (Especially one scene with Steven
ranting in the kitchen) but it served to fill the air with anxiety and
unease. It's directness and pace felt somewhat surreal. As information
is cautiously revealed I felt captivated and uncomfortable (A long
scene that occurred inside a car comes to mind). The characters take an
active role in the story, with consequential decisions (Dr. Murphy's in
particular) However the ultimate choice, which came with the last act,
seems to lack consequence and it's aftermath felt weak. Moreover
certain aspects of the plot seem to be left without explanation,
undermining the story (Specially regarding Martin). Some characters
also felt underdeveloped, regardless of their impact on the plot. Long intimate close-ups place you inside the characters minds and
facilitate the ability to empathize. One shot, involving Anna and bob
walking down the stairs was remarkable, as was the film's
cinematography. Bleak, gray tones and an isolated atmosphere provoke a
feeling of claustrophobia and lead you to think that there is no escape
for our protagonist. The score and sound effects, involving long slowly
built screeches, kept me uncomfortable and accentuated certain scenes
involving two characters in particular: Steven and Martin. Barry Keoghan as Martin really made me feel like there was something
not quite right with him at first, to fully suspecting a clinical
mental disorder. Colin Farrell as Steven felt in command of his
character as a confident successful man who is humiliated and brought
low. Nicole Kidman as Anna felt like how any desperate parent would do
believably reacts to the information that is unveiled to her. The tense dialog, brilliant cinematography, unsettling score and
interesting acting carry this movie and kept me captivated despite it's
seemingly slow pace and sometimes weak plot. This movie stands superior
to most thrillers and is definitely worth a watch.
