1
Kevin Smith is an Asshole

I'm just going to list the reasons this movie is bad:-The concept for this movie isn't really good. Many times with horror
movies you hear, "oh, it was a good concept, though," but with this
movie, even the concept doesn't really make sense. A guy wants to turn
another guy into the walrus that "saved him" as a young man. What? -This movie contains a ridiculous amount of dialogue. It's a horror
movie; it doesn't require that much dialogue. -Justin Long does not belong in horror movies.-There's a pretty significant gap in this movie. We go from Justin Long
with no legs and arms fused to shoulders to full on Justin Long in
walrus suit. I mean, the walrus suit was discussed in earlier parts of
the movie, but I feel like I missed something. There was no scene where
Justin Long was being put into the walrus suit. It just left me
confused.-Speaking of the walrus suit - it is made of random pieces of people.
All of the pieces appear to be in similar states of decomposition,
which doesn't make sense. We know he didn't kill every one at once.
Also, isn't he trying to make Justin Long look like a walrus? When he's
in the suit, he looks more like a quilt than a walrus.-Speaking of the body parts - at the end of the movie, Justin Long
decides to stay a walrus... What? Why would you want to stay a walrus?
And not even just the suit, he wants live in a walrus habitat and eat
raw fish. Dude, I get that your sort of stuck like that, but why go, as
the movie puts it, "full walrus?"-Speaking of the fact that he wants to stay a walrus - I don't think he
legally can stay a walrus. This suit he is in is made out of murdered
people. Isn't that evidence? Wouldn't you have to ask the family if you
can keep the arm skin or face (yes, there are faces on it) of your
loved on that's been killed? This one really got to me... this doesn't
seem legal. And also, even if he didn't want to be fixed, wouldn't they
try to remove the walrus suit since it contains the human remains of
murder victims?-Johnny Depp is in this movie. Why does he have such a small part?-Justin Long's character is such an asshole. Why did his friends even
go after him?
