5
I am a fan and wanted to love it, but cannot.

This movie tries so hard... and falls flat on almost every level. It is
further proof that DC may be a master of the animated movie and they
may be brilliant in the way they approach many of the TV properties but
when it comes to movies they still can't pull it together. This is a
long movie that feels even longer. Ben Affleck does a GREAT job as
Batman, that doesn't mean I LOVED this Batman (I did not) but he does a
great job and any problems there are with the character fall on the
writer, producers and director. The problem with this Batman is no that
he is brutish and violent and angry.. it's that he's not smart. He's
not strategic and intellectual , brilliant and a world class detective.
He is consumed by anger, hatred, vengeance and brutality (and not in a
good way). He is blind in his rage and directs it towards Superman.The ending, which should be amazing and outstanding fell flat in both
viewings I went to. One a sneak peek and one to which I had purchased
tickets on opening night and went to see with friends. The ending
should be exciting and fun and amazing.. and it just... wasn't. It
completely fails on every single level.You should leave the theater with your mouth wide open from awe unable
to withstand the anticipation of the next chapter... most people who
were leaving the theater were tired, worn down and felt like they had
gone a few rounds with Superman. The movie is tedious and boring with
characters that I just did not care about at all. Oh no Louis is in
trouble... oh look Batman is Angry, oh look Superman is Angry, oh my
Martha is Angry. The problem with a bunch of characters who are
essentially the same in attitude is that you just don't care.The preview of the justice league, which people know is coming was
forced as is but would have made a magnificent after credit sequence.
It would have at least of given people something to talk about on the
way out rather then just shaking their heads in disappointment or
yawning.I liked Man of Steel, I didn't love it but I liked it. This was no
where near as good. While I have been a long , long time DC fan and
unlike many fan boys have little problem with taking some creative
liberties with characters (there are things that work well in years of
comics that don't translate on screen), there are things that should
evolve but not completely change. Doomsday was sadly, a disaster. In
the comic he is a Goliath , matching Superman's physical might and
that's pretty much it. His punches are so powerful they shatter
buildings (which Snyder seems to really, really, really like to do)..
there was no need to alter him to the point they did.This movie would have been better served had Lex made a clone from
Zod's body of Bizarro (makes more sense) and had it been only Batman
and Superman, getting to know one another, learning about each other,
discovering their differences and ultimately their similarities as they
came together in the end to defeat a Superman level menace. After the
credits , an email to Wonder Woman with Batman letting her know that he
has discovered who she is. You could even have had wonder woman in it, she was a delightful
character (in this film) and I enjoyed her scenes (she gets little
screen time but I felt was one of the best characters). As it is it
just falls flat.I enjoyed one of the sequences with who I believe was the Flash
(doesn't say) but I do wish it was Grant (CW) as he is the true flash.
This movies wrongs can still be righted in the next one and I will
likely see it when it arrives but I am not looking forward to it and
have no real anticipation of it's arrival. If I got word it was
canceled I would shrug my shoulders and hope they got it right next
time around.
