10
Stylish and Thrilling

With a sudden thump on the window a wild bird is stunned. It is reduced
to a heap of feathers and a barely beating heart. Through fantastic
imagery, talented and stylish actors at the top of their game, an
amazing and fastidious director, and an enthralling and thrilling
story, the characters in the film go through transformations similar to
that of the dazed bird. So did I. The film resonated deeply with me. "I
just can't do this anymore." I was shocked with this line that was said
to me in the same situation and manner.Despite her wealth and ownership of a Los Angeles art gallery, Susan
(Amy Adams) is troubled by the absences and indifference of her
husband. She unexpectedly receives a manuscript from Tony (Jake
Gyllenhaal), her long estranged ex-husband. Passages from the
manuscript contain eerie parallels to her past and present life.
Reality is strangely infused into the story line. As Susan reads,
memories and emotions come flooding back. She struggled with
unhappiness then. Despite significant life changes, she still struggles
with it. She let go of a good man, yet maybe because she needed to.
This is what she tells herself. In Ford's stellar and meticulously made film, even side conversations
have substance and pictures on walls are connected to the story line.
Certain scenes alone make the film worth watching. This includes an
unorthodox interrogation by actor Michael Shannon. Shannon is extremely
ruthless and convincing. Laura Linney appears as Susan's mother. She is
even more brutal, in her own way, than Shannon. In a separate flashback
scene, where all that is heard is a heartbeat, I was spellbound. The
unexpected ending, the even more surprising opening, the twists and
turns, and depth of the film, thrilled and delighted me. Tom Ford's
background in the design industry is apparent in the spectacular
lighting, stylish clothes and sophisticated dialogue. In the second
showing of the film in North America, Ford received a standing ovation.
I stood too. I loved listening to him talk and teasing people in the
front row for distracting him with their cell phone cameras. His theme;
do not let go of love if and when you find it. Seen at the Toronto
International Film Festival.
