5
French New Wave tribute scores visually but its one-note protagonist and situations are less compelling

Noah Baumbach co-wrote 'Frances Ha' with his current significant other,
Greta Gerwig, the actress who plays the title role. It's Baumbach's
take on a 27 year old aspiring dancer/choreographer who just can't seem
to get herself together. Slate Magazine's Dane Stevens describes
Frances as "childlike and disorganized." Stephen Holden of The Times
has an even more prescient descriptor, describing Frances as one who
operates under a sense of "entitlement." The film is shot in black and
white and it reminds me of the 1962 French New Wave flick, 'Cleo from 5
to 7'. While 'Frances' is not filmed in real time like 'Cleo', it has
the same feel: expansive shots of the care-free, largely self-absorbed
protagonist, who prances about, highlighted by one urban backdrop after
another. Baumbach clearly wants us to link his film to the spirit of
the French New Wave, as he employs the famed French film composer,
Georges Delerue, to provide much of the film's soundtrack.When we first meet Frances, she's living in a Brooklyn apartment with
her best friend, Sophie, who recites 'The Story of Us'—a whimsical tale
of the two young women engaging in a "world takeover". However, as we
break into Act II, Frances feels betrayed, when Sophie announces she's
moving to a new apartment share which Frances can't possibly afford
(Frances is an intern at a small dance company).Frances briefly resides with two younger guys, one of whom classifies
her as "undateable". Frances often drinks too much and makes
inappropriate comments in various social situations. Frances eventually
travels to Sacramento to visit her parents and later, takes a
particularly ill-advised trip to Paris, funded by a credit-card. All of
this proves quite repetitious as Dana Stevens remarks in Slate: "There
are too many scenes in a row that make the same point—Frances is a
creative but lovable flake who's her own worst enemy." Just like in
Cleo from 5 to 7, the protagonist's journey is not as important as
allowing the viewer to take in the wonderful ambiance and atmosphere.
Baumbach indeed is a virtuoso when it comes to highlighting Frances'
myopia through visual (non-dialogue) scenes.Frances finally ends up as an RA at summer dance camp at Vassar College
where she runs into now-married Sophie, who's flown in with her
straight-arrow husband, who's now working in Japan. Sophie hates being
in Japan and is unhappy in her marriage. Perhaps here Baumbach is
foreshadowing Frances' eventual triumph: the struggling artist trumps
those who opt for more traditional pathways (while Sophie seemingly is
Frances' social better, Baumbach makes it clear, that's not the way it
ends up).I can't help bring 'Cleo from 5 to 7' up again. Just like Frances,
'Cleo' goes from complete self-absorption to liberation. In Cleo's
case, a sweet-talking soldier and an oncologists' positive diagnosis,
bring her back to reality and happiness. In Frances' case, it's not
really clear what got her to change her attitude after all the
self-defeating, myopic behavior. By accepting the job at the dance
company and then establishing her own clientèle of students (creating
her own dance school), Frances suddenly finds redemption.'Frances Ha' has some sharp performances, particularly Ms. Gerwig in
the title role along with Mickey Sumner as Sophie. Mr. Baumbach's
visual style and direction is a worthy throwback to the French New Wave
era. Nonetheless, some may find the non-conformist Frances'
machinations to be too one-note and grating throughout most of the
film. Baumbach is more forgiving and suggests that Frances' late
maturity is normal and part and parcel of normal young adult
development.
