7
Very good Argentina/Spain co-production being stunningly  directed and efficiently produced by Pedro Almodovar .

This picture displaying genuine humor , thrills , chills , suspense ,
dark atmosphere and twisted conclusions , being skillfully proceeded .
At the beginning, in the title credits each main actor of each tale is
identified with a wild animal , and in the director's case, it is a fox
. Subsequently , it takes place six short stories involving distressed
people . They are titled : Pasternak , The strongest , Little bomb ,
Proposal , The rats and Until Death Do Us Apart.This exciting , bizarre film contains black humor , tension , thriller
, drama , plot twists and shocks . Disconcerting black comedy packs
crazy events , amusement and absurd situations . Sitting in a strange
middle ground between the completely absurd and the stylish set pieces
, adding some enjoyable moments . It is an Argentina/Spain
co-production by El Deseo : Agustin and Pedro Almodóvar , that turns
out to be an acceptable film because of the thriller , tension ,
Kafkaesque suspense , embarrassing humor as well as an interestingly
written script concerning complex episodes episodes in which our
protagonists are in such extreme situation and their subsequent
instinctive urges for exploding violent feelings . We immediately see
that the stories are going to be told from some unorthodox perspectives
as each scene and its conclusion result to be surprising and shocking .
Despite its disturbing as well as violent developing the picture
manages to be intelligent , intriguing and thrilling , being
entertaining to follow . The good thing about this film is that the
director made it on an enough budget , including several sets , yet the
movie works on many levels but is constantly reconfigured . The final
outcome is an offbeat picture that's captivating , in spite of not
being all that fun , resulting to be thoughtful and thought-provoking ,
dealing with the impact of violence nowadays . The interesting as well
as original screenplay is 84 pages long and some of the six tales are
featured in different order , it also includes a seventh tale , pretty
much shorter than the other ones, called Bonus Track . Being official
submission of Argentina to the best foreign language film category of
the 87th Academy Awards 2015 . Top-notch cast formed by prestigious
Argentinean actors as Darío Grandinetti , María Marull and Leonardo
Sbaraglia . Special mention for Ricardo Darin ; in fact , this is the
seventh film from Argentina to be nominated for an Academy Award for
Best Foreign Language Film, and the third in a row with Ricardo Darin
as a leading star. Furthermore , colorful and evocative cinematography by Javier Julia .
Rousing musical score by Gustavo Santaolalla , including an attractive
leitmotif . Gustavo is considered to be one of the best international
composers , his works in group production from the USA have turned
Santaolalla into a prominent figure in that area, what gave him,
besides, the chance to participate in big musical projects for cinema
movies with successful results such as "Amores Perros", "21 Grams","The
Motorcycle Diaries", crowned with the Oscar award by the music of the
controversial film "Brokeback Mountain" and in 2007 for his friend
Alejandro González Iñárritu's "Babel" . The motion picture was
compellingly directed by Damián Szifrón who shot in 8 weeks and he
wrote most of the tales from the movie in his bathtub , he actually
said: " The bath is a great place to write". Damián was born in Buenos
Aires, , location in which he often shoots his films . He is a writer
and director , known for El Fondo del Mar or Bottom sea (2003) , Tiempo
De Valientes (2005) and this Relatos Salvajes (2014) at his best ;
being elected by Time as one of the best films of 2014.
