7
Enjoyable if you like Rogan/Franco comedies.

I was fully prepare to be disappointed with this movie. It's garnered a
lot of hype recently and for all that to be about nothing would be a
big shame. Thing is though, it's a Rogan/Franco comedy. If you've seen
the likes of Pineapple Express and This is the End, you know exactly
what to expect. The Interview is no different really. The plot is
simple yet outrageous; an interview show is invited to North Korea to
interview Kim Jong-Un, but the CIA butts in and asks them to
assassinate him. Franco and Rogan then blunder around failing to
assassinate him and get themselves in ridiculous situations.The single most important element to The Interview is whether or not
it's funny. It is. Well, I found it funny any way. The humour is very
crude for the most part. There's lots of sexual jokes, lots of gay
jokes. I'm not usually a fan of crude humour as I feel it's lazy, but
Rogan always manages to write imaginative crude jokes that are
genuinely funny. There's also a little bit of slapstick, and a lot of
over-the-top B-Movie type humour, especially once the action scenes
come in and you're left laughing at the gore. Most of The Interview is,
of course, poking fun at Kim Jong-Un though. They paint him up as a
closet homosexual with daddy issues, and escalate all the humour around
that (Kim's helicopter blowing up in slow motion to the soundtrack of
Katy Perry's acoustic version of Firework is priceless, because of all
the build-up behind it).With comedies, there isn't really much else to mention. The actors
performances all revolve around being funny and delivering the jokes
unwaveringly, which The Interview achieves. There usually isn't much
else to these movies. However, The Interview does have a bit of visual
flair to talk about. It's choice of locations are perfect, making you
feel like they're in North Korea. The slow-motion at the end is not
only hilarious, but beautiful to watch on a technical level. The
production design and costuming is also top-notch, recreating famous
scenes from the area, such as the neutral no-man's-land between the
borders and the blue huts that sit there. The Interview is a well-shot,
well-made movie that makes sure it sticks out from the rest.The biggest problem I had with the movie, however, is Randall Park as
Kim Jong-Un. He's a funny guy who brings a much needed gravitas to the
role. Thing is, he doesn't remotely look like Kim Jong-Un. I'm pretty
certain they could've picked an actor with a better resemblance. The
other problem is his accent. He sounds like an American. It almost
undermines all the mocking of the character.So there we have it. I have seen The Interview and I wasn't
particularly disappointed. It won't rock your socks off, that's
guaranteed. It's not even the best Rogan/Franco team-up, but it is
pretty funny and a perfectly enjoyable way to waste a couple of hours
(if you can get hold of it). I give The Interview a good 7/10.
