2
What a terrible lump of trash.  I am baffled by the good reviews.

I really cannot figure out why this movie is so highly reviewed.
Everything it sells itself as is a lie. For starters, it is portrayed
as this suspenseful thriller where there are constant twists and turns
and you never really know what is truly happening. Well, that is a
total lie. There is no suspense, there are no serious or intelligent
twists, just a litany of idiotic contrived absurdities.Spoilers below: You clearly see what is happening in very beginning with Nick (Ben
Affleck) and you pretty much know he did not kill his wife 30 minutes
in. Your initial sense is that she is not dead and he did not kill her,
and you are right. There are no more "twists. "The "twist" is that she
is insane, and the movie descends into 2 more hours of ever increasing
idiocy and farcical garbage. Amy (Rosamund Pike) goes off into a series
of illogical and irrational behaviors, including consorting with some
random trash at a trailer park, despite having faked her own death and
being the subject of a massive manhunt. The story just gets more and
more absurd, with more illogical stupidity and unbelievable actions by
other characters, which include police getting a search warrant on a
house based on an "anonymous tip," Nick and his sister being apparently
the dumbest people on Earth who would not move any of the loot out of
the shed before the cops find it, the police engaging in the largest
manhunt ever for a missing person after about 6 hours, etc. The movie
starts out decent but gets continually worse as it goes on, and just
starts getting worse and worse at a faster rate as it continues.The acting is decent to middling, with Affleck probably giving one of
the better performances overall, and Tyler Perry actually being an
enjoyable aside. The other characters are largely unlikeable,
unbelievable or just stilted caricatures.The last 30 minutes are, as others have noted, unbelievably ridiculous
and moronic. The woman who so carefully plans out her own death with a
massive amount of preplanning, somehow commits a savage crime of
passion, which is a story FILLED with holes, but somehow is supposed to
have gotten away with it. Also, apparently even though she plotted all
along to have her husband executed, she somehow had the presence of
mind to save the sperm sample, keep it, then AFTER he is exonerated and
she has to alter her plans to return to him last minute after murdering
someone else, has the means to get it successfully implanted in
herself. Oh, she is an absolute psychic apparently.The ending is ludicrous, the characters are unrealistic farces that
only someone who desperately wants to love this movie would believe,
the story is overrun with artificial plot devices and deus ex machinas
that serve only to advance nonsensical story lines, and the movie is in
no way a twisting, changing thriller. Its just a predictable drama
where the only "unexpected" things are unexpected because they are
absolute nonsense that are make about as much sense as random dog
running on stage and relieving itself. One of the worst movies I have
seen in years.
