1
Truly repulsive...Just my opinion.

I really am at a loss for words on how to describe how awful and
repulsive this film was. I have seen some of Triers other work just out
of curiosity. Yeah, he does push the boundaries and takes big extremes
in his films which I am not that big of a fan of. Still, I take the
time to watch a film, before I criticize. I gave this film a chance.
Honestly, I think this is his wort film.I am not going to into details of the story and plot as it would take
too long and this movie doesn't deserve a complete breakdown review,
not to mention, it isn't worth my time more than what I am going to
type.To me I saw nothing artistic, I saw nothing funny, it wasn't deep or
meaningful in any way. All I got out of it was a grotesque pornographic
punch in the face. I believe the plot to be weak. Some of the acting
and performances were pretty good and that is all it has going for it.I am open minded to lots of things and accept lots of things, but this
is not one of them. On top of it all, it's just too damn long. It gets
so drawn out. Even the sex scenes in the film were a yawn fest not to
mention made me feel unclean. They didn't feel erotic or artistic, or
anything for that matter. However, I did not walk out on this film as I
wanted to see it in its entirety. The film overall made me feel dirty,
and unclean. All I got out of it was a glorified porn, with a weak
story and average acting if not borderline sub-par for most of the
cast.This movie made me feel dirty despite some of the good acting moments
and even a few parts in the story. For the most part, 98% crap cannot
make up for the 2% of good that I found in this film. Figuratively
speaking of course. I am not saying don't see it. I would recommend you to not, but it is
up to you to decide. It is not my place to tell someone what they can
and cannot do or watch what they like. Make the choice for yourself.
Take this review as a recommendation, I would advise against seeing it.
But ultimately the choice is yours. Make your own opinion. My opinion
should never dictate any readers decision.
