9
Not A Single Fart Joke Was Given!

I am forty-six years old and I'll be one of the first decry Hollywood's
descent into 'nothing but potty humor' notions of what passes for
comedy these days. Also, having been seventeen when the show first
aired I can tell you that the gratuitous shots of bouncing breasts in
slow motion we're not nearly as prevalent as people remember, in what
little I saw of it. That said, I am absolutely dumbfounded by the
negative reviews and poor opening of this film! I can't help but wonder
what in the world people were expecting. To be fair, I may have watched
about five episodes of the TV show when it was on, but my assumption
was that the show was about a group of lifeguards getting into
situations and capers well outside the purview of a group of
lifeguards. For me, this movie was practically perfect at being what it
set out to be. It never tried to take itself too seriously, yet was
only just campy enough to let the audience know that. I thought
everyone performed well in their given roles, the jokes were hilarious
and no more excessive than what I would expect the 2017, rated 'R' film
version to pull off. At times I even felt like I was in the middle of a
seasons long binge on Netflix. This movie did a decent job of making
the outlandish 'not-so-mysterious mystery' somewhat believable and I
even half-expected a scene near the end with Priyanka Chopra's villain
saying, 'And I would have gotten away with it if it weren't for you
meddling lifeguards and your bigger, stronger Hasselhoff!' Now as a
disclaimer, this was the first 'R' rated movie I took my teen-aged son
to see so I thought perhaps my laugh meter was ratcheted up, but the
theater that was 85% full at 9:20PM on a Sunday night all seemed to be
laughing as hard as we were. I think perhaps people were just upset
with this film for having not enough naked women and sexual situations,
or contrarily didn't want their Baywatchers using foul language and
making penis jokes? I don't know. I say go see this movie with zero
expectations, let it be what it is, don't be a prude, and you will
laugh a lot and have a good time!
