9
A Raw & Emotional Gut Punch

With its late release over here in England, by the time the film was
released, it had already come to prominence with overwhelming reviews
and 6 Oscar nominations to its name, so I entered with relatively high
expectations, which I generally find to be a bad call as you tend to be
let down, however Gibson's first directorial effort in a decade,
'Hacksaw Ridge', is a raw and emotional gut punch.With the history of cinema being littered with the production of World
War II films, primarily in the form of over-the-top propaganda pictures
such as 'Saving Private Ryan' (which nonetheless I still love), it's
nice to see a movie that delves down the path of anti- war and focuses
on the true-life tale of an uncaped superhero over fictional splendour,
and 'Hacksaw Ridge' is just that. The film starts with rather
over-sentimental, soap opera style tendencies which are occasionally
funny to watch, but nonetheless they are perfect at delivering
character development to our front-running hero Desmond Doss. I was
initially expecting a 'Pearl Harbor' approach, with over an hour of
lovey-dovey sentimental crap followed by under-accomplished action, but
it was quite the opposite. The opening features the stated character
development drama, but gives us an insight into Doss's personal reasons
for his faith and religious approaches, then thrusts us into war.Now, the war scenes... well, let's just say they're some scenes I doubt
I'll be forgetting anytime soon. They're epic, they're visceral,
they're emotional, they're gory, but above all else, they are executed
perfectly. Upon reaching the top of the Maeda Escarpment, nicknamed
"Hacksaw Ridge", the squad are instantly driven into the horrors of
war, the loss of friends and hope. The raw and visceral images are
maybe even a little too realistic. Dead bodies are strewn across the
ground, innards and entrails litter the floor, smoke and fire choke the
landscape. This is war.'Hacksaw Ridge' is a hard-hitting film that if watched and truly
understood, will be an unforgettable experience, and the concluding
interviews with the real-life Doss add to the emotional core. The
cinematography is stunning, the music is beautifully alluring and the
performances, especially from Andrew Garfield, are beyond fantastic,
Garfield completely embodies the persona of Doss with sheer accuracy.
Further shoutouts to Hugo Weaving, Sam Worthington and the surprisingly
brilliant Vince Vaughn. This is, in my opinion, one of the greatest
films to have graced 2016... or 2017 here in the UK! We forgive you
Gibson!
