8
Fare Thee Well

Greetings again from the darkness. If you are a follower of the 

filmmaking Coen Brothers, then you are quite aware of their complete 

lack of artistic interest in any traditionally successful character. 

Their work is inspired by life's obstacles and tough luck, even if 

brought on by a character's own poor judgment. Coen Brother stories 

revolve around those who carry on and have (blind?) faith that their 

approach, no matter how ill conceived, is the only option ... the only 

path worth taking. Their main character this time out seems to think 

life is filled with only careerists (sell-outs) or losers (those who 

can't get a break).



The titular Llewyn Davis (played by Oscar Isaac) is introduced to us 

onstage at the Gaslight singing a beautiful folk song. Moments later he 

is lying in the back alley after taking a whipping from a mysterious 

stranger. It's not until this scene is repeated again at the film's end 

do we understand the cause of this effect. See, Llewyn is not a very 

likable guy. We learn he is still grieving from the suicide of his 

musical partner (as sung by Marcus Mumford), and that he bounces from 

sofa to sofa amongst acquaintances and family members. Llewyn has no 

friends, only acquaintances too kind to throw him out ... even if he 

might be the father of an unwanted baby, or if he accidentally allows a 

beloved pet cat to escape.



The story is based in the folk music scene of 1961 Greenwich Village in 

the pre-Bob Dylan days. The Coen's were inspired by the memoirs of Dave 

Van Ronk entitled "The Mayor of MacDougal Street". So while the songs 

are real and the characters are often inspired or based upon real 

artists of the time, Llewyn's story is pure Coen fiction. That means 

cringing, levels of discomfort, uneasy chuckling and moments of rapture 

... such as John Goodman evoking a drugged out Doc Promus spewing harsh 

poetic diatribes.



We never really know if the Coens are making a statement or tossing it 

out for us to debate. Are they saying that even the ugliness of 

Llewyn's personality can produce something as beautiful as music, or 

are they saying that we get tricked by beautiful music into thinking 

that the artist must also be pure? Carey Mulligan (as Jean) has one of 

the film's best and most insightful lines when she tells Llewyn he is 

"King Midas' idiot brother". Her pure disgust (and expert rendering of 

the F-word) and anger contrasts with her angelic onstage persona with 

husband Jim (Justin Timberlake).



As always, the Coens provide us a constant flow of interesting and 

oddball characters. In addition to Goodman's jazz hipster, we get 

Garrett Hedlund as an ultra cool (til he's not) valet, Adam Driver as a 

cowboy folk singer, Troy Nelson as a virtuous Army folk singer (based 

on Tom Paxton), and Llewyn's Upper East side cat owners, his spunky 

sister, and best of all F Murray Abraham as Bud Grossman, the owner of 

Chicago's Gate of Horn club. Based on the real Albert Grossman who 

discovered Peter, Paul and Mary, and managed Bob Dylan, Grossman is the 

lone witness to Llewyn's audition. This may be the most touching 

musical moment of the movie ("The Death of Queen Jane"), but it's 

clearly the wrong song for the moment.



Oscar Isaac is exceptional as Llewyn Davis. He captures that crisis of 

self that's necessary for an artist whose talent and passion is just 

out of step with societal changes. We feel his pain, but fail to 

understand the lack of caring he often displays towards others. We get 

how his need for money overrides his artistic integrity as he 

participates in the novelty song "Please Mr Kennedy". Why Isaac's 

performance is not garnering more Oscar chat is beyond my 

understanding. It's possibly due to the fact that the movie and his 

character are not readily accessible to the average movie goer. Some 

thought and consideration is required.



If you are expecting a feel good nostalgic trip down the folk singer 

era of Greenwich Village, you will be shocked and disappointed. 

Instead, brace yourself for the trials of a talented musician who 

believes the music should be enough. Speaking of music, the immensely 

talented T Bone Burnett is the man behind the music and it's 

fascinating to note how he allows the songs to guide us through the 

story and keep us ever hopeful of better days. This is the Coen 

Brothers at their most refined and expert. 


