1
Pedestrian, lackluster presentation of moderately interesting ideas.

This latest critical darling comes from Drew Goddard and Josh Whedon. A
writer/director team with an extensive background intelevision. This
review is now sufficient enough to end right here, but I'll soldier on
anyway. With about a jillion comparisons to Wes Cravens criminally overrated
Scream, there was no reason to have high expectations for The Cabin in
the Woods. Still, I at least expected a mindlessly entertaining
carnival ride of gruesomeness a la Demon Knight or Planet Terror. My
expectations were too high. The reason for the Scream comparison stems
from the fact that both films exhibit a self awareness of the clichés
and conventions of the horror genre. This comparison however is not
entirely accurate. As lame a film to ever masquerade as a horror film
as Scream is, The Cabin in the Woods' brand of stupidity has more in
common with tripe such as Mars Attacks or even The Brady Bunch Movie. This is a film that looks and feels like a slightly sinister entry to
the abysmal Scary Movie franchise. Another horror comedy that's never
scary, and never really funny. To call it convoluted or contrived would
be a massive understatement. It's flimsy excuse for a premise is like a
house of urine soaked cards. The 1st act set up plays every bit as
clichéd and predictable as any cut rate teen slasher movie of the past
30+ years. The only difference is the inclusion of a vast network of
"puppeteers," two of which offer constant explanations (excuses) for
said predictability. Basically it's all a charade. The kids are being
lured into the cabin as part of some laughable ritual of human
sacrifice to appease some angry ancient gods. This charade of trite
horror genre mediocrity is the only thing that keeps them from rising
up and destroying the world. In other words, the story is rotten
because the "Ancient Ones" have wretched taste. For reasons far too ridiculous to bother getting into, things don't
quite go as planned. Two of the kids figure everything out, and to make
a very dumb, bloated story short, the world ends. There's a bloody
finale involving about 20 or more simultaneous references to horror
icons of the past several decades, but don't think for a second that
any of it's worthwhile. "Lord Fornicus," the obvious reference to
Hellraiser's Pinhead, looks like something out of a SNL sketch. Come to think of it the whole thing feels like some cut-rate comedy
sketch show rather than a horror film or even a horror comedy. Watching
this thing one get's the impression that everyone involved was striving
for mediocrity. The acting is soap opera level. The direction
uninspired. The writing an avalanche of sloppy expository dialog and
dumb forced humor (people still think stoners are funny?). The camera
work typical "lets film each scene from every conceivable angle and
hope it all cuts together well. The Special effects barely a step above
what you'd see in an Uwe Boll film. The self-referential conceit is just an excuse to unleash a torrent of
awkward, distracting exposition through each and every character's
dialog. You half expect someone to look directly into the camera at any
moment, throw up the sign of the horns and proclaim "Dude! It's a
freakin horror movie!" This brand of lazy storytelling is no different
from what the storytellers proclaim to be ridiculing. The people who
defend this technique by saying "that was the point" are simply
defending mediocrity. Clichés, ineptitude and lack of imagination
cannot negate clichés, ineptitude and lack of imagination. Nor can they
be excused. Consider films like Kill Bill and Grindhouse, which manage
to pay homage to trash cinema yet still be incredibly entertaining, and
original. The Cabin in the Woods is still the same boring same old same
old, even with the reality-TV-show-of-the-gods slant. All in all, the whole thing is about as clever, funny and scary as a
fart joke. Some have surmised that the story is actually a kind of
metaphor for the horror film industry, or horror fans expectations or
whatever. If that's the case then The Cabin in the Woods isn't just
lame, it's insufferably pretentious. Merman, this single star is for you and only you.
