9
I loved this movie!

Everyone remembers that special movie they saw or that one that was the
best for your mind, that one which really stuck. For me that movie was
"Hotel Transylvania". I think it was one of the best children's movie
ever made. It conveys humor, creativity, action and freedom. Set in Transylvania in modern time, Dracula (Adam Sandler) hosts all
the legendary monsters at his hotel to celebrate his daughter's one
hundred and eighteenth birthday. But he works overtime to keep Mavis
(Selena Gomez) from falling for a human boy named Johnny (Andy
Samberg), who miraculously stumbles upon the hotel. All Mavis has ever
wanted is to leave home and see the real world and see if humans are as
bad as her father says they are. The main characters are Selena Gomez
as Mavis, Andy Samberg as Johnny and Adam Sandler as Dracula. It is a
brilliant cast for this movie.Selena Gomez was perfect for the part of Mavis and did a great job
while Andy Samberg was good but wasn't perfect for Johnny. I think he
could've done a much better job. Adam Sandler was born to play the part
of Dracula. He did a magnificent job and was extremely humorous. The
other characters were great and they matched their roles perfectly!I liked that we got to know the characters and what their goal was. For
example Mavis wanted freedom and wanted to leave home. What I didn't
like is that it was a bit confusing. For example, "Why was Johnny
hiking in Transylvania at night?" or "Why didn't Mavis just turn in to
a bat and fly away to see the real world?" These questions make you
wonder but I still think it was a wonderful movie even for my age
group. I think the moral of the story was trust your children to make the
right decisions no matter what you think about them and from the child
point of view the moral was to know your parents are always just trying
to protect you. And both are true and if you look at them from both
sides you will get the full story. I think that this is a movie for age
groups above five and below fifteen. Reason being because Dracula does
a fang up where his face goes a bit creepy but other wise I'm sure
parents will love it and children between the ages of five and fifteen
will love it to.
