9
"Power tends to corrupt and absolute power corrupts absolutely" (Lord Acton), in Shakespeare's Scottish play of assassination, set in scenes of blood and mud.

Elizabethan play-write William Shakespeare staged plays of great
historical events. Necessarily limited by the stage-setting, these were
the masterpieces of carefully crafted words and speeches that we now
consider as Shakespearian English. Thus this reviewer considered the
film version of Shakespeare's Scottish play as perhaps being too wordy
and stagey to go and see. However, I was beguiled by the trailer, that
seemed to suggest lots of action and battles. Alas, this was not to be.
However, this dull, but worthy product, is a fine showcase for
Shakespeare, Scotland, and the performing thespians of the film.This Scottish-themed film does open up on the battlefield. There are
some interesting scenes as the warriors prepare for battle and the
battle itself is shown well. (A later battle also has some interesting
two-sworded battle scenes). During the battle, witches appear, and make
a prophecy about the King of Scotland. The film tells the story of an
attempt to fulfil the prophecy and of the aftermath of that attempt.The male lead is played by Michael Fassbender and the female lead
playing opposite him is Marion Cottilard. They are superb in their
roles and must have actually suffered hard for their craft. Location
shooting for the film was in the Isle of Skye in Scotland. This
reviewer has paddled in water there, and can assure readers that even
in the height of summer, it is like putting your feet into buckets of
ice. Yet, we have Mr Fassbender in water in a scene, and Miss
Cottilard, far from her native France, is seen scampering about
barefoot and lightly dressed. Bravo! it should be said that there is
little sight of the summer in this story. There are many, many, scenes
of bleak mountains and bogs and moorland. The climate is cold and wet,
with swirling fogs often covering the rough terrain. The scenes are in
fact very bleak and compare with those in the Viking film 'Valhalla
Rising' (2009).Elizabeth Debicki, who also appeared in this year of 2015 in 'Everest',
here does a standout scene, as relevant to us now as it was in the era
it was set in. Sean Harris, who like Michael Fassbender, also appeared
in Prometheus (2012), here delivers a brilliant and powerful
performance. There is a scene in the 1995 Scottish film 'Braveheart'
where William Wallace is floored in shock when he encounters the
English champion. Here, in this film, Sean Harris, similarly has his
emotions plunged to the depths, more than once. His acting is superb
throughout the film.David Thewlis seems to have an ability to really inhabit his roles. The
source material, (book), for the film 'Seven Years in Tibet' (1997)
seems to show he got the part just right. So too, for his OTT role in
the 2010 film 'Mr Nice' which again matched the source material in the
book of the same name. In this year of 2015 though, his performances
have seemed more subdued but still true to the source material. I found
his portrayal in 'Legend' to be fascinating. Here, in this film, he
takes a part and makes it very believable. The part he plays is very
like one today and he seems to play it like that too. There are some
obvious differences too in that role of course, but that is the essence
of the plot of this Scottish film. We also get good supporting roles from Paddy Considine, David Hayman
and Jack Reynor.Much of the location shooting is on the Isle of Skye in Scotland,
though I did spot Bamburgh Castle too. Ely Cathedral is also featured.
The cathedral scenes are spectacular as are the castle interiors,
however the bulk of the film is shot in realistically grim
surroundings. Our thespians spend most of their time wallowing in blood
and mud, and the climate and terrain are both as gloomy and grim as the
storyline. The use of hand-held cameras does detract though. As do some
of the special-effects that take us out of the moment.This film is a good introduction to Shakespeare and his Scottish play.
Political students can learn lessons from this story today, just as
they can from 'I Claudius'. For those interested in the subjects of
assassination, conspiracy, politics and statecraft, then the writings
of the Renaissance Florentine statesman and writer Niccolo Machiavelli
may also be of interest.This film of the Scottish play serves as a good way to engage a modern
audience and as such has been a worthwhile project. 9/10.
