2
Absurd, Troubling, Grossly Overrated Movie

How do I find a bookie like the idiot played by Robert De Niro, who co-
stars in the surprise hit movie Silver Linings Playbook?Seriously, he's got to be the dumbest bookmaker on the planet. Any real
bookie who followed his habits would soon be at an intersection holding
up a cardboard sign.Silver Linings Playbook is unquestionably the most overrated film of
the year. How this two-hour bore garnered a whopping eight Oscar
nominations isn't so much a testament to this movie's excellence, but
rather what a terrible past year this has been for cinema.The Bradley Cooper character meets the Jennifer Lawrence character at a
dinner party and the rest of the movie is pretty much the story of the
interplay between the two leads. They spend most of the time fighting
and insulting each other, sometimes viciously. But none of this seems
to matter. We all know what's going to happen just before the final
credits roll.But predictability is the least of this mess of a movie's numerous
problems. Perhaps the most disturbing aspect of the story is Cooper's
obsession with reuniting with his estranged wife. Remember, this man
spent eight months locked up behind bars in a mental ward for
committing a violent crime. Now, he's free on probation and his sole
mission in life to to get back with the ex.Trouble is, his wife has issued a restraining order against Cooper.
That means he's not allowed to visit or call or contact her in any way.
Despite this, Cooper ignores the law and goes to great lengths to go
after what he wants. Sure. Nothing proves a man's true love like acting
the part of a stalker.For some reason I found baffling, many people seemed to find this
endless pursuit to be an endearing quality -- including women. There
were plenty of laughs as Cooper tries to establish some sort of contact
with his ex, including visiting her place of employment. How charming!
I guess being a wacko stalker is okay if you look like Bradley Cooper
and were voted 2011's Sexist Man Alive.The movie takes place in South Philadelphia. Accordingly, we're
subjected to all the typical stereotypes you'd expect. The only thing
missing was Burt Young as the uncle walking in the door with a sack of
sausages.There are a few nice moments, which were usually tied to the catchy
soundtrack. And it's okay to dream and believe in fairly tales. But
that doesn't mask the reality that relationships take work. They
require sacrifice and commitment from both sides. Yet, we're led to
believe that once the boy gets the girl, they'll leave happily ever
after. Never mind that they've been screaming at each other for 90
minutes during the entire movie, and haven't agreed on anything. They
have virtually nothing in common. Neither has a job or it would seem,
much of a future. So, what's going to happen the first time Mrs.
Lawrence tells Mr. Cooper to take out the trash? Or, leave the toilet
seat down? Is Cooper going to go ballistic again like he did with his
first wife?So, let's get back to that idiot bookie. Remember -- Robert De Niro
plays the dad. He lost his job some time ago, so he turned to
bookmaking to support his family. Fair enough.Trouble is, there's not one thing in this movie the least bit
convincing he actually works as a bookmaker. On Sundays, the phone
never rings. He never has a notebook at his side. Where are all his
customers? He never once discusses games or point spreads, other than
those involving his beloved Philadelphia Eagles when he's in action. In
fact, De Niro is so sickly obsessed with the Eagles, he watches them
religiously -- completely oblivious to games one which his livelihood
depends. One might think that a bookie based in Philadelphia might have
a rooting interest in Eagles' games, and if so -- he's likely want the
other side to win (and cover) since most amateur locals tend to bet on
their favorite team. But there's De Niro, the ultimate sap.That said, the most laughable part of the movie comes near the end. I
won't give away the final outcome. But De Niro essentially gambles his
entire life savings on a single football game. Who does he bet on? You
guessed it -- the Philadelphia Eagles.A few scenes later, De Niro is back at it again. This time, he wants to
bet a parlay. He learns that the line on the upcoming Philadelphia-
Dallas game is "Eagles -1." De Niro wants to bet on his beloved Eagles
so badly, that he offers his business partner and fellow bookie a
preposterous wager. He says "I'll give you Dallas plus ten points! The
Eagles must win by ten!"On a game lined at "-1?"This clown is a bookie?How can I get in touch with this joker?To be fair, I saw this movie in Las Vegas -- where sports gambling in
commonplace. But the De Niro segment of the movie was so absurd and
annoying, that I heard a few catcalls and even some uncontrolled
laughter. Not good.It's a bad sign when the most memorable thing about a movie are its
flaws. But alas, those are pretty much the only parts of the film that
kept me interested in what was an instantly forgettable and utterly
disappointing film.Silver Linings Playbook has about as much entertainment value as a
losing sports book ticket.
