8
A Good Effort from Pfister That's Sadly Underdeveloped

Transcendence is Wally Pfister's directorial debut about Dr. Will
Caster, who has his mind transferred into the largest supercomputer on
the face of the planet after he is shot by an anti-AI activist at a
conference. But, as Will begins to grow and expand, can his wife Evelyn
and Will's friends stop him before the Will they knew is completely
gone?I find it truly pathetic how many people are hating on this movie, and
for some of the wrong reasons. I did go into this movie with high
expectations and was disappointed, but there was still a lot to salvage
from that was good. But first thing's first: the bad. Transcendence has
a fantastic story and great concepts, but the way it was delivered and
structured was incredibly poor and muddled. If you split the film in
half instead of thirds, the second half of the film is incredible and
ends how it should, but the first half suffers from time gaps, some
left out character development and poor pacing. But, this is really all
that's bad. The decent but disappointing aspects of the film are the ideas. The
film pitches grand and epic thoughts that grow, but the ideas it
preaches are never fully realized, at least the majority of them. Then,
the script by Jack Paglen suffered from inconsistencies and random plot
elements that did not really need to be there, or should have been
examined further (like RIFT). Now, the good and great. Wally's direction was superb; he really knew
what he was doing after working with Christopher Nolan for so long.
Pfister's style and unique eye helped save this movie from being a
total disaster, especially when it came to the action, the way the
camera moved with the scene and the characters or just the environment
itself. The acting was great, too, especially Paul Bettany in the
supporting role as Max, Will and Evelyn Caster's friend and fellow
scientist. He brought heart and emotion from the other side of the
spectrum, having an objective and subjective eye on the situation, with
the other (completely subjective) side being from Evelyn's point of
view. Rebecca Hall was great as Evelyn, a researcher clouded by her
love for Will, and challenged in deciding whether or not the thing Will
says he is, is actually Will or not. Johnny Depp was good, but it
wasn't until the end of the film when the audience feels emotionally
attached to him, as he's usually an emotionless AI, projected on
screens and glass. The visual effects were top-notch and some of the
best of the year hands-down, and the musical score by Mychael Danna was
haunting, beautiful and intense when it needed to be.Transcendence is an actually good movie that deserves more credit than
the immense crap it's getting. And to those who keep comparing it to
the B-movie "Lawnmower Man," it's different. Sure, there are brief
similarities (melding man with machine), but that's it. It's an
original take on the "technology-will-destroy-humanity" cautionary
tale, and it's a disturbing one that does have some hopeful (and
resonating) humanity after the mayhem and chaos has settled. I hope
Wally Pfister gets to tackle another big sci-fi film, but one with a
different, more experienced writer.
