4
Sometimes compelling, sometimes tedious, but ultimately as flawed as it's protag's ill-conceived crackpot theses

I've seen a number of films with this same basic premise... it's not
new. People have been riffing on what I like to call the Milgram plot
now for years. Throw a bunch of people together, divide them in half
and give one half absolute authority and no rules, the other half no
rights. It can produce a very tense, uncomfortable, interesting movie.Unfortunately, Kyle Patrick Alvarez's film of Phil Zimbardo's reckless,
misguided, and absolutely unscientific experiment on a handful of young
men in the Summer of '71 in a Stanford campus building just doesn't
deliver enough to merit its 122 minute slog.It isn't that the performances aren't good (well, except for Crudup,
who's a disaster, coming across as a guy too dim to even be employed at
a hot car lot). It's the waffling tone of the film and the indecisive
script by Tim Talbott that ultimately condemn it to ineffectiveness.
Billy Crudup's hamminess and Talbott and Alvarez's misguided intentions
certainly don't help.For a good three-quarters of the film, we're treated to a gleeful,
gloating, willfully-ignorant portrayal of Zimbardo by Crudup, and a
fierce build-up of unrepentant sadism from the mock guards under his
control, only to suddenly find the mad doctor's heart soften by the
film's last reel --- neither convincing or explicable --- and an
end-crawl blurb that makes Zimbardo out to be some kind of
misunderstood academic saint. The film is ill-conceived and its aims
incoherent, if not completely missing. Even though we are at times an overly litigious society, if this thinly
disguised exercise in megalomania had gone on today, Zimbardo would be
burned to the ground (and rightly so), buried till he choked in civil
suits on mental and physical abuse charges, or at the very least
reckless endangerment. Stanford would throw him under the bus faster
than it could crush him (again, rightly so).So what does this really leave us as viewers? Just a lot of sadism and
degradation at the hands of a "scientist" who doesn't even seem to know
the meaning of the term "independent control group" when quizzed by a
colleague... a man so warped that he brings along his ex-con "subject"
or buddy (never was clear) to interject the man's uneducated, obviously
over-emotional opinions into the fray to muddy things further.What's next, a glorification of Joseph Mengele's good intentions?Despite the good, sometimes terrifying performance from most of the
game young cast, The Stanford Prison Experiment is as meaningless and
facile as the case on which it's based.
