1
Dumb Hard

The entire movie I kept waiting for Leslie Nielsen to show up. This has
got to be a parody right?Olympus Has Fallen is the most blatant, and dumbest Die Hard scene for
scene copy that has, or more likely, will ever be made. I don't know
how security cameras, sub machine guns, rocket launchers or bunkers
work, but I'm sure I know they don't work like they do in this movie.
This is like a really bad cover to a great, iconic song. Same words,
but man, is it painful to experience.Not only does every single actor in this movie talk with the Jack Bauer
and Batman Begins gravel voice, I think this movie is racist and
discriminatory too. Not even toward the Koreans, it's also downright
Anti-American. Look, there's some dummies that come and go from all
levels of our government, but this movie makes reality look pretty
sweet because everybody in this one is freaking IQ flat lined. The FBIs
Johnson and Johnson (no relation) at the Nakatomi building were smarter
than anybody in this one. Did I mention how dumb this movie is? Don't you have to Arm a missile
BEFORE you detonate it? Can you evacuate 30k US troops from the DMZ in
30 minutes? Or, you know the part where they send in the Navy SEALs
knowing their own weaponry will cut these brave men down and the CSA,
played by Robert Forrester for payday, refuses to call them back after
5/6 helos are smoking? Wait, these guys are probably still alive, they
can get out of the chopper and get the job done...Nah, the movie lets them be dead for the sake of the script so Butler
bad dude can go in there and clean house. Even though all his security
codes should be revoked for the White House after 18 months reassigned.
:( My head hurts.As an American, folks, I want to publicly apologize for this thing.
Also, what the heck hit that first SUV at the beginning of the movie? I
still have no idea what that was. But then there I go trying to think.
Everything I've been taught to do, my entire life. You know using my
powers of deduction and all that education, man forget it. You'll only
suffer.Live free or Dumb Hard. With a Vengeance HarderP.S. hashtag is shift 3
