7
The cream puff version of The Exorcist

The parallels between this film and The Exorcist are obvious even from
the trailers, so I won't go too far into that. Just suffice it to say
that The Possession contains none of the impact or shock value that The
Exorcist has. In short, it's just not as good of a film.However, in its own right, it's a pretty competent horror movie. The
story of the central characters is kind of cliché. Husband and wife
have divorced, they share custody of the children, there's a new
boyfriend/girlfriend in the picture, etc. This type of set up is always
convenient when dealing with a "messed up kid" film. That way whatever
is wrong with the child can inevitably be blamed on the fact that the
child is just not dealing well with the break up of his or her parents.
And that's exactly what happens in The Possession; except there is
actually something VERY wrong with the youngest daughter and it has
absolutely nothing to do with her parents. Without giving away too
much, the plot centers around an ancient wooden box the youngest
daughter finds at a yard sale. Of course she wants it, and so she gets
it. And there begins to occur some rather strange phenomena; most of
them downright spooky, a couple kind of hokey.All in all, I was pleased. This film has got good pacing, decent
acting, and exceptional cinematography. There's not much I can find as
a fault here. If I had to name my major complaint about this and
similar movies it would be this: I'm not thrilled about the influx of
PG-13 horror films. I've a suspicion this is due to a need to bring in
a wider audience (younger viewers/teenagers), and make more money on
ticket sales. Because of this the final product tends to be a little
too watered down for my tastes. The Possession shows a lot of promise,
but I can't help but wish the writers/director would have pushed the
envelope a bit more; fleshed out the story. Then it would have been
great. As it stands now, I'll just say it's a "good" little horror
film. Nothing that will be talked about this time next year, but I
consider my money well spent.My rating: 6.5/10
