8
Hilarious, yet deep. And, worthy of a second viewing

The comedic movie, The Duff, is hilarious, relatable and worth
watching. The film is about high-school senior Bianca, played by Mae
Whitman, who finds out that she is the DUFF (Designated Ugly Fat
Friend) of her attractive group of friends. Determined to change her
DUFF image and impress her crush Toby, she turns to her popular
neighbor Wesley Rush, played by Robbie Amell, to give her a complete
makeover. Through her journey of transformation, she gains self
confidence and shows the school that everybody is a DUFF. Not only do I enjoy that the movie starts off fast, but I really like
that it starts with a cool, graphic newspaper clip that explains high
school and the different types of people in high school. Being a high
school student myself, I was really surprised at how relatable the
movie is, especially to today's generation of teenagers. It doesn't
just portray the generic, stereotypical high school student that is so
outdated. The movie has a lot of familiar celebrity stars that I
enjoyed seeing. The performances by Mae Whitman, Robbie Amell, Allison
Janney and Ken Jeong are especially hilarious and very entertaining.The movie is hilarious, yet deep. Most comedy movies are really funny,
yet pointless or lack an overall message. I laughed so often and even
shed a tear in a heartfelt scene. The facial expressions are priceless
and memorable. I respect this film for being extremely funny while also
having a deep, motivational moral lesson and theme. I enjoyed the plot
and moral of the story as much the comedy. The movie has a lot of
references that are very comical. One example is an episode of the
Simpsons that the movie shows. The movie also has really entertaining
graphics that make the movie even more unique, some of this include
labels and an interactive screen effect.This film is one I will watch multiple times and tell my friends to
watch, yet I do not recommend it as a family movie. The film may be
inappropriate for children under the age of 13 due to inappropriate
language and actions. I definitely recommend the movie for teenagers in
high school, especially girls. I recommend the movie to ages between 13
and 18. I give this movie 4 out of 5 stars.
