8
A Great Family Entertainment

In the kingdom of Cloister, in Albion, there is a legend about giants
that came from the realm of Gantua, between Earth and Heaven, using a
large beam stalk and were defeated by King Eric that was wearing a
magic crown. The eighteen year-old day-dreamer farmer Jack (Nicholas Hoult) has been
fascinated by this tale since he was a boy. When he goes to the market
to sell his uncle's horse and cart to buy material to repair the
farmhouse roof, he defends the honor of Princess Isabelle (Eleanor
Tomlinson), who is also fan of the legend and is secretly in town, and
Jack has a crush on her. Then he stumbles with a monk that has stolen
magic beams from the evil Roderick (Stanley Tucci), who is engaged with
Isabelle, and he offers the beams to Jack to have his horse and escape
from the soldiers that are chasing him. When Jack shows the beams to
his uncle, he throws them on the floor, angry with the naivety of his
nephew. Meanwhile Isabelle flees from the castle to have her own adventure but
she finds a storm and seeks shelter coincidently at Jack's farmhouse.
But one of the beams is watered and a huge beam stalk grows, taking
Jack's house with the princess trapped inside. When King Brahmwell (Ian
McShane) arrives in Jack's land with his knights, he sends a team of
the princess's guardians to seek out Isabelle. Jack volunteers to go
with them, led by the knights Elmont (Ewan McGregor), Crawe (Eddie
Marsan) and Bald (Mingus Johnston). Roderick and his right-arm Wicke
(Ewen Bremner) cut the rope and most of the knights falls from the sky
and dies. Soon they find the land of Gantua and learn that the giants
are not legend. Will they succeed to rescue Princess Isabelle? And what
are the evil intentions of Roderick and Wicke? "Jack the Giant Slayer" is a great family entertainment with a funny
and full of action story. The special effects are top-notch and as
usual, professional critics, pretentious intellectuals and imbeciles do
not like this type of movie, but they insist on watching it to write
bad reviews. Bryan Singer again makes a great movie and the only but
would be Nicholas Hoult in the role of an eighteen year-old teenager.
The character could be a little older in the story. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Jack - O Caçador de Gigantes" ("Jack – The Giants
Hunter")
