8
Straight to The Point, Well Directed, Really Violent

This definitely isn't one of those movies with a lot of character
development, but its not your typical action flick either. This is a
beautiful work of art with a lot of stylized violence, desolate alleys
with shady characters and ill intentions. The grungy neon lights of a
dystopian future, the scarlet blood and glimmering glass, the
hauntingly beautiful slow motion, what makes this movie great is
definitely the visual aspects.Dredd himself is very one dimensional, forcedly so. Stern, analytical,
gruff, his toughness masking a side of him the audience never actually
gets to see. His character is described perfectly in the first few
minutes by his new psychic apprentice, which is the last look you get
inside of his head before its slammed shut. He is a man who takes his
duty seriously to the point that it consumes him, defines him.Ma-ma is sadistically brilliant. Her mob-style domination of peach tree
creates a claustrophobic apprehension for a threat far too big to take
on in a box far too small to escape. The terror by which she controls
the people is believable and vicious. Whats lost in character
development is regained by the subtle twisted moments and reactions to
the threats imposed on each of the characters.The psychic scenes were perhaps the most well done and paints a very
nice psychological battle between the judge in training and her
prisoner. I would've actually enjoyed more of these as they were very
surreal and artistic. Its also cool to see the way she breaks him down
even after he thinks he has the upper hand.Slow mo, the drug this movie centers around, makes for some very
awesome fight scenes on par with Sherlock Holmes 2: a Game of Shadows
and the Matrix. The visual effects were very well executed and i myself
being a visual effects artist, have only one complaint. At some points
the blood was a bit oversaturated and toonish, which was likely in
attempt to match the comic but draws away from a few scenes.
