9
Steve Jobs

The best biopics are the ones that show their subject as the flawed
individual that they are while also showing how their particular flaws
and strengths are what propelled them to greatness, and sometimes threw
them back down. Take, for instance, "Raging Bull", "Schindler's List",
"Lawrence of Arabia", "Amadeus", "The Assassination of Jesse James",
and Sorkin's own "The Social Network". I'm happy to rank "Steve Jobs"
among those films.Okay, so maybe it's a gross exaggeration to call it quite as good as
those films, but it gets pretty much everything right, and it is
probably the best film of 2015. The film is structured as sort of a 3
act play, with each act taking place right before 3 very important
reveals for Apple. Although rather than starting at the beginning of
Steve's career, it starts at probably his worst decline in his career,
starting with the Macintosh conference. The first thing that we learn
about Steve is that he needs everything exactly the way he wants it, no
matter the cost. He is desperately trying to get the computer to say
"hello" only 45 minutes before the conference starts, even though the
chief programmer tells him multiple times that it's impossible. We
learn that Steve requires everything in his life to be under his
control, which is why he doesn't want Wozniak to give the computer 8
slots, but 2 instead ("end to end control") and it's why he pushes out
his daughter, since he believes he can't control her ("Your sons and
daughters are beyond your command"). This fear of lack of control seems
to go all the way back to when Steve was an infant and was adopted not
once, but twice. However, his love for his daughter does shine through
in moments, because he is, after all a human. During the middle passage
of the film, Steve has been fired from Apple and is now trying to
create the "black box" at his new company, NEXT. At this point, he
knows it's going to flop. He doesn't even have an OS ready for the
conference, but rather a demo version of it. He is only starting to
realize that he doesn't understand, as his daughter (and Jon Mitchell)
puts it, "life, love and clouds". He is beginning to realize that
everything is beyond his control. He now has even stronger feelings
towards his daughter and when he gave money to his ex-wife, she spent
it poorly. He was also fired from his job (in anew incredibly well
written and edited scene) despite fighting hard against it, and even
though it wasn't solely John Sculley's fault (in fact, he was just
trying to let him off the hook easy), Steve pins it on Sculley, and
refuses to apologize, because he didn't at least try to stand up for
him. Still, Steve devises a plan to maintain control and it works. This time, Steve Jobs is back at Apple and introducing his new product,
the iMac. He has come full circle and back to the top with sales
predicted at 1 million, but he still has things to sort out. He has a
conversation with Andy Hertzfeldt, the man he was forcing to make the
Mac talk at the beginning. Andy cares for Steve's wife and daughter, so
he does the sensible thing and pays for Steve's daughter's tuition for
college since Steve wouldn't do it because he took his ex wife selling
the house that he paid for as a personal insult to him to him from his
daughter when in reality it was simply because she is having a tough
time financially. He is angry at him for "acting like her father", but
Andy responds "someone had to". It only hardens the blow that Andy
confesses to never liking Steve right after, and though he says he is
indifferent as to whether people hate him or not, he seems upset. He
also starts thinking about his daughter, and imagining talking to her.
He then is shown by Joanna that the Time magazine at the beginning was
never meant to be about him. He realizes that he is not always the
center of attention and not everyone is out to get him. Next he is with
Sculley, and now he realizes that he is not an efficient computer, but
an inefficient human and he has to embrace his humanistic side because
that is what he is and there is no escaping it. He even used to go to
his birth father's restaurant but would never admit to it simply
because it was only one more thing to worry about, a distraction in his
eyes. It is then when he tries to make up with his daughter, ending in
her yelling at him and exposing that he is just as flawed as the rest
of us. She storms to the roof, and Steve Jobs follows. Like she
predicted in the NEXT conference, his "regretful" song has started
playing. He tells her that LISA wasn't a coincidence, and is far more
interested in her than the important conference. He is even willing to
be late to it so he can hear one of her essays, and it is specifically
emphasized earlier in the film that being late to these is something he
would never do, not by a second. It is now, because of her and his
concern for her, that he comes up with the idea for the iPod. Then he
walks out onto the stage, with his daughter watching in the background,
again something he wouldn't allow before, and without saying a word,
both literally (camera wise) and figuratively puts her into focus and
starts walking towards her with his back to his computer and his
business.
