9
The Founder Provides a Nourishing and Well Balanced Movie Going Experience

Sometimes it kind of sucks loving movies and living in a small town. I
wanted to see this as soon as I saw the trailer but it was only
available in a limited release. So I had to wait for the expansion in
the release after the new year came around. So I made the trip up to a
larger city with a couple of good friends to get the chance to go see
it. I walked away from the theatre impressed with the movie and glad I
made the trip. The Founder could have taken the easy route, painting
Ray Kroc as the cartoon villain but the movie rises above that and
shows us a balanced and unflinching look at the creation and expansion
of the McDonald's brand.*Minor Spoilers Ahead* When you think of people that have created
billion dollar empires, you don't picture them where Ray Kroc (Michael
Keaton) is. It's 1954 and Kroc is slinging milkshake mixers on a diner
to diner basis. He's got a nice pitch but his mixers aren't selling,
his pitch is met with rejection, dismissal and slammed doors. After
trying his luck, he gets food at the diners. He's unimpressed by the
service, the quality of the product and the clientele. He puts on a
brave face though when he's calling his wife Ethel (Laura Dern) and
after feeding her some half-truths about his sales, he goes to be
listening to an album about the "Power of Persistence." The next day he
calls up head office and they tell him there's an order for 6 mixers
out in San Bernardino, California. Ray thinks it's a joke so he calls
the location and Dick McDonald (Nick Offerman) answers the phone. The
order turns out to be genuine and instead of following his normal
route, he heads out to California to see what kind of operation the
McDonald brothers are running.I didn't know the story about McDonald's so I went in only knowing what
the trailer showed. The trailer kind of made Kroc out to be a snake
hiding in the grass, which would have still been interesting but the
biggest surprise when it came to The Founder was that it took a pretty
balanced look at how McDonald's was created. We see Kroc in the
beginning and he's more like the hero you would see in a biopic. He's
treated poorly by almost everyone because he was out there trying his
best to create something. He's got vision but neither the capital nor
the idea to realize it. The movie also shows that he had a lot of good
business ideas that represented why he was so valuable. He tries new
things like targeting blue-collar franchisees instead of the rich and
he's dedicated to maintaining a high standard of quality. He's not
afraid to roll up his sleeves to do it either. Don't get me wrong, Kroc
is a villain and you'll hate him by the end but I appreciated how the
movie didn't just distract you from the fact he was essential to this
operation.Having seen The Founder now, I can't believe that it didn't garner some
consideration for Best Picture. But the bigger surprise is that there
weren't any nominations for Best Actor or Best Supporting Actor come
out of this. I think this may be Michael Keaton's best work,
considering his recent output (Birdman and Spotlight) I think that's a
pretty big compliment. He conveys such a wide range of emotions through
just his facial expressions. He brings some warmth to Kroc at the start
but he's frightening when Kroc's motivations turn more sinister. I
liked Nick Offerman and John Carroll Lynch just as much. They seemed to
have a real rapport as brothers, they brought some comedic relief early
in the movie but they both really sell the drama at the end. B.J. Novak
and Laura Dern were good in their supporting parts. Linda Cardellini
was a scene-stealer in her parts with Michael Keaton.If I had a complaint with this movie, although the first 20 minutes was
important to setup Kroc as a character, the movie was pretty slow at
that point. It picks up though when he gets to San Bernardino and it
didn't suffer any pacing problems after that point. The other thing I
would like to talk about is that those of you who always want a happy
ending, don't expect one here. The ending was a real gut-punch, the
events that happen made me want to yell at the screen. To provoke that
kind of reaction from me means the movie did it's job.The Founder is a great mix of being informative about a restaurant
chain that some of us come into contact with almost everyday. It also
provides the right amount of drama to keep things interesting. I really
enjoyed this movie and I wish it had gotten the awards attention I
think it deserved. It has more mass appeal than the distributor gave it
credit for. It hits the notes you need to see in a biopic but it
provides more perspective and development than other similar titles. If
you can find this at a theatre near you, go check it out.
