3
Hype and Immense Disappointment

Really a massive disappointment. I had read over on a blog that this
film would "restore my faith in horror films". I read all over the
internet about just how great this film was. So I spent ten dollars to
view it last night. The found footage idea isn't wholly a terrible idea, the problem is
that it just doesn't usually work. By usually, I mean ever. Horror as a
genre has been falling apart at the seams for years, and the advent of
"found- footage" certainly hasn't helped. In fact, it feels like it's
making a mockery out of horror rather than restoring it to glory. Enough about that. Regarding the film: The first problem we get here is
that the writers/directors have two hours to piece together six
cohesive stories. That's fine, but if that's the case, we need to only
focus on the important stuff here. Half the time, you'll feel like
you're watching some stranger's home movie collection. It's drab, it's
boring, it doesn't serve to build suspense, it just drags. You see,
when we only get twenty minutes with characters, we don't give a hoot
about what they're like. All footage should serve the story, and it
just doesn't here. So yes, a lot of the film dragged and a lot of the
film was boring.The second huge problem: the scary stuff. There isn't enough of it.
There isn't enough that was supposed to be there in the first place,
and most of what you get is just goofy. There were a few jump scares
that weren't done all that effectively due to some of the worst camera
work the world has ever seen. We understand that this is supposed to be
amateur shot footage. That doesn't mean people film themselves walking
around with friends while wildly waving their arms around like a
complete lunatic. So when you aren't sure what you're looking at and
your eyes are constantly struggling to adjust, the few jump scares that
were put in the film no longer serve a purpose. I'm not sure if my next complaint should be lodged against the actors
or the writers. Maybe both? All of the characters, I mean ALL of the
characters, are incredibly unlikable or plain bothersome. There's a
character that basically just cackles through an entire story. There's
a character that has no personality aside from leaving her mouth agape
at all times. So yeah, the acting was pretty bad, but the writing was
probably the worst part of the whole thing. One story in particular was
such a joke on the writing front, we couldn't contain our laughter
watching it. Not because it was supposed to be funny either. So here we have six basically nonsensical and incomprehensible stories
that lack direction, character, motivations or scares and we throw it
all together to create one low-res pile of crap. We have scenes that
make NO SENSE in regards to how it ended up on a VHS tape, uninspired
concepts, terrible camera work, and just terrible writing.Here is another Paranormal Activity: TONS of hype, great press and
reviews, but underneath all of that is a really uniquely awful film.
I'm serious; I thought it was really that bad. Uniquely awful in just
how inept and uninspired it is.Want a compilation horror film that tries to tackle a few sub-genres of
horror? Try Trick-R-Treat. It wasn't anything spectacular, but it was
enjoyable and well written. V/H/S is something I hope dies and people
forget about by Christmas. What an awful, awful film.
