1
Not even bad enough to be funny

{Technically contains spoilers. Nothing to actually spoil}Suggested tag-line: "The consequences of not spanking your child"For the entire painstaking extent of the movie, one, and only one,
emotion persists: a profound dislike of both of the main characters.
The mother, after being in the car during the death of her husband
years earlier, has an incredible amount of difficulty doing even the
simplest, easiest tasks. Simply put, she is pathetic in the worst
meaning of the term; a shell of a person. This may very well have been
written intentionally, except that the shear amount of time that has
passed makes it unacceptable that she is still somehow unable to handle
simple day-to-day experiences even four years later.It is this inability that has allowed her child to grow to roughly age
4 without even the faintest sign of discipline. Simply put, the child
is more of a monster than the actual monster in this movie. Time and
time again, he does things to endanger himself and others, all the
while the mother just continues on in her own perpetually overwhelmed
world.This situation drones on and on for more than half the movie. To say
that it's painful to sit through is an understatement. To say that it
makes you despise both of them is understatement.Given the rave reviews this movie received, I was determined to see it
through to the end despite being thoroughly tired of it by the 30-
minute mark. What I found was an anti-climatic movie that was sub-par
in every regard except possibly the acting, assuming that these
terrible characters were indeed as intended. To say that The Babadook
is bad fails to do it justice.Many people that like the movie praise it for being atypical of a
horror movie, for being more of a psychological thriller than shock or
jump horror, for it's atmosphere. As someone that thinks jump horror to
be cheap, and far prefers psychological thrillers any day, let me say
this: The Babadook is not a psychological thriller, as it is not
thrilling. It is not atmospheric, as the entire movie is dull in every
sense. It is not jump horror. It is not shock horror. It is not gore.
It is not excited. It is not intelligent. It is not creative. It is
nothing more than a strung-out story of two terrible people.In short, it is nothing.
