8
The New "When Harry Met Sally" (Raging Film Review)

What If (also known in some places as The F Word) is a film about the
place that many--if not all of us--have been put: the oh-so-dreaded
friend zone. What If is essentially When Harry Met Sally put in the
modern age: can two people be strictly friends while one carries on a
long term relationship while the other is deeply in love with their
best friend. Luckily, the movie steers away from all of the unrealistic
tropes given to us in some recent rom- coms and offers up wonderful and
realist look at an issue that plagues us all.Wallace, played by Daniel Radcliffe, has given up on romance. He has
finally started to move on from his last girlfriend, but he is still a
bit miserable. At a party hosted by his pal Allan (Adam Driver) he
creates an instant bond with Chantry (Zoe Kazan), and after chatting
all evening, he walks her home only to have the bombshell dropped that
she is in a relationship. I don't know about you, but this situation is
all too familiar. He gets her number, but since he felt that there was
more of a connection than just friendship, he tosses it. Some time
passes, and as fate would have it, they find each other again and
decide to be friends because he is lonely and she is tired of always
being "that girl with the boyfriend." They strike up a strong
friendship, but obviously Wallace wants and hopes it will go somewhere
else.So we follow their friendship through many events that people can
relate to. Does he tell her how she feels and have her feel like he's a
scumbag with ulterior motives? Does he try to break them up? He is
trapped. To make it worse, Chanty's boyfriend, Ben, is an incredibly
likable and successful person who Chanty is happy to be with. He does
not cheat, lie, or anything that would give Chanty a reason to leave
him. This dynamic helps elevate the film from other commonly known
character situations because it isn't about one guy being a "bad guy"
and us yelling at the girl to leave him for the other, it is about both
guys being "good" and having her decide between who she really wants.Radcliffe and Kazan are marvelous in this, with the former continuing
to shed his Harry Potter typecasting and the latter achieving the most
"adorkable" performance of 2014. Their chemistry is luminous. One hopes
that they are actually good friends now because their performances
would surely go to waste if they weren't. Radcliffe has done a good job
at distancing himself from the wand and glasses, and with more roles
like this he will surely be an actor to be reckoned with. Kazan, on the
other hand, has the most difficult role in this film; her performance
is both lovable and a bit sad to watch because we see her juggling her
love for Ben but also the budding emotions that she may or may not be
growing for Wallace. With the help of the humorous and real script,
their characters come to life off the screen, and they just seem like
real people dealing with a real problem and real feelings.Supporting them is a funny and lovable cast of crazy and hilarious
friends, coworkers, and siblings. Adam Driver, who can be seen in the
upcoming Star Wars film, plays a wild and oddly romantic fellow who
finds love too, but his love is a little more bizarre and shared by his
partner, played by Mackenzie Davis, and they both watch Wallace
struggle with his feelings and dilemma concerning Chantry. Rafe Spall,
who plays Ben, is likable too, though we do not exactly want him in the
picture. The only thing that really keeps us hating him is the fact
that we don't want him and Chantry together, which as I said before,
helps make the movie a little more original. In the end, What If is a delightful and honest film about an area that
no person wants to be in: the friend zone. It raises questions about
love, friendship, and who we are meant to be with, while also dealing
with some of the harsh truths that come into play when there is a
relationship like this one. Kazan and Radcliffe are utterly delightful
in their performances as well, helping make this one of the best
romantic comedies to come out all year. So, if you've ever found
yourself in a situation like the one in the movie, love Radcliffe, rom-
coms, Kazan, or a great chemistry, or if you just want to see a movie
that does not involve space or mutants, then What If will surely leave
you delighted.For more reviews, check out ragingfilm.com
