9
Sharp and complex

The Devil's Candy is the second feature film from Australian director
Sean Byrne (The Loved Ones). This movie is impressive enough as it is,
but knowing it is only the director's second film makes it even more
so.The story centers primarily around an almost unrecognizable Ethan Embry
as Jesse, the grungy, long-haired, metal-loving, art-obsessed patriarch
of a small family. Despite the fact that it means he will have to sell
out a bit, he's ready for them to move into their first real home, a
large farmhouse in rural Texas with an expansive barn that he envisions
as a studio. His preteen daughter, Zooey (Kiara Glasco), is frustrated
by the expected growing pains of starting at a new school, and his
wife, Astrid (Shiri Appleby), is hesitant when she finds out that the
too-good-to-be-true low price is due to the previous owners dying
within the house's walls… but onward they go. No time is wasted before
Jesse starts being "inspired" by inexplicable urges and one of the
previous tenants makes an unwelcome reappearance…** SPOILERS! **I was hooked in to this film from the very first minutes… and that's
rare. The styling, the mood, the dread-heavy guitar riff… I loved it
all.Metal is featured heavily — almost exclusively — and the
father-daughter bond that Jesse and Zooey share over their love of
Metallica and headbanging in the car is really goddamn cute. I feel
like I'm so used to seeing either fathers and sons bonding or fathers
fumbling through trying to connect with their daughters that this was a
refreshing departure. Zooey is beautiful but unapologetic with her
style, and there's really no mention of her "not fitting in" aside from
the universal apprehension to start fresh at a new high school.The entire thing felt sharp in a way I haven't experienced in a while.
The acting felt natural, each of the characters seemed like they were
well-cast, and the run-time was short enough that I never got bored or
antsy. At only 79 minutes it was both pleasing to my ADHD mind that
tends to bounce around if it has too much freedom to do so (and even
when it doesn't) and impressive that Byrne was able to flesh out the
characters so much in such a brief span of time.Everyone was fantastic, but Pruitt Taylor Vince — playing Ray, the
possessed son of the house's previous owners — stole the show. As with
many actors, I first discovered him in an episode of The X-Files (Gerry
in "Unruhe"), but he has a huge list of previous projects. He managed
to be sinister and yet almost pitiful in a way, especially with it
being unclear just how long he had been tortured by these growling,
menacing voices. He brings such an understated sense of tension to
every scene he's in, particularly the feeling of panic you feel when
hearing his blaring guitar riffs (his futile attempt to drown out said
voices).The concepts explored are vast and complex. We center around the idea
of Satan being an "active, violent, anti-God personal reality", a force
that moves through humans rather than a goofy cartoon character with
red flesh and horns, and then segue seamlessly into the fear that every
parent has of someday not being able to protect their child from all
evil. We see Jesse dealing with feelings of inadequacy on all sides —
not being able to support his family even when he compromises his
artistic values, especially when it comes to his daughter, who, with
age, is becoming increasingly skeptical of his ability to do (and
provide) it all. Not to mention the juxtaposition of intense artistic
inspiration being a form of "possession" in itself, with Jesse only
able to get the attention of the high-end gallery owner when he
completely loses himself in his work, at the expense of his family and
their trust in him.And the final scenes? Oh man, the final scenes. I wouldn't have
imagined myself loving watching Ethan Embry kill a man with a Gibson
Flying V while flames encircle them and metal music rumbles so loud you
think it will explode the TV itself… so I learned something new about
myself today.It's like a haunted house movie merged with a possession film and
dressed up in the style of a serial killer flick… and I freaking loved
it.
