8
Don't give up

At the end of World War Z, just as the credits began rolling, a
gentleman, scratch that, an idiot spoke up from the back of the theatre
exclaiming, "What? That sucked! The book was nothing like that! Booo!"
I'm sure he scurried away back home, logged online, and began tweeting,
posting, and blogging, furthering his rant. Much like my response to
him at the theatre, I hope he receives silence in return.It's true, World War Z is nothing like the book. The book is told from
the point of view AFTER the war. It's a "historical," account of what
happened during the war. Rather than make a mockumentary with
flashbacks, which would have been the wrong decision in my opinion, the
filmmakers decided to put us right in the middle of the action.When adapting a piece of literature it is impossible to bring every
page, every paragraph, every nuance onto the screen. Some have come
close depending on the material, but for the most part, they all have
to take their own creative licenses. After all, it's called an
"adaptation," for a reason, otherwise they would call it a copy or
mimic.Where World War Z works (that's a mouthful) and where so many others
fail is that just because the world slips into total and utter chaos,
doesn't mean that governments, military, and law enforcement agencies
go away. Quite the opposite. If anything, these scenarios bring out the
best of all of them. We see generals, UN delegates, and scientists
trying to solve complex issues that they don't know anything about.
Rather than going into hiding, they act. Society doesn't crumble. Bands
of cannibals and leather strapped gangs don't patrol the streets with
necklaces made of teeth. People do what they can to survive, and the
higher ups try their best to find a fast and effective solution.At first, I thought the movie started too fast. How could something
this violent and concentrated go undetected, but after a while I got
it. The opening montage of news reports said it all. How many of us
listen to everything we hear on the news? Exactly. So much goes
undetected while we focus on issues that effect us immediately. It's
too late when the virus touches US soil. Not even social media can keep
up with it.As far as zombie movies go this one is pretty great. Though I think 28
Days Later takes the cake in terms of realism, in-camera effects, and
sheer terror, this one holds its own. Brad Pitt plays a former UN
investigator who is traveling with his family just as the zombie attack
on Philadelphia unfolds. The film goes from 0-60 before you take a sip
of your Coke. This is a fast paced, edge of your seat thrill ride led
by one of the finest actors of this generation (Pitt's acting ability
is far too underrated and lost in the kerfuffle of tabloid news).For those of you who stare at the ticket window debating whether or not
to see a film in 3D or standard, you might want to spend the extra few
dollars to see this one in 3D (I know it's asking a lot, but maybe you
can sneak some candy or a bottle of water to offset the concession
stand price - deal with it). I tend to air on the side of "screw it, I
want to see it in 3D." Now not every movie NEEDS to be seen in 3D, hell
there are really only a couple that absolutely have to be seen in all
three dimensions (Avatar and maybe Life of Pi), but this one really
surprised me. 3D is not about things jumping out at you, but it's about
layers. Luckily this film has both. Big chase scenes in Philly,
particles floating about in South Korea, and tracking shots in
Jerusalem make this one of the 3D events of the year. No exaggeration.Like so many other summer blockbusters before it, civilization is on
the brink of extinction and only a handful of experts can save us. What
World War Z does that so many have failed is give us hope. Hope that
humanity won't dissolve into nothingness. In the face of sheer danger
these fighters stand tall, take a deep breath, look the enemy in the
eye, and say, "No."
