6
It's the Circle of Politically Dull!

Robbie K back, after being off the grid for a week. Tonight's review is
on the latest "dystopian" feature film called The Circle. Former
Hermione Granger, and more recently Belle, Emma Watson leads the film
as she attempts to take us into the workings of a technological
conglomerate who has knowledge as its key principle. Yet the trailers
paint a much darker secret hidden in its stony walls, one that promises
to be a real nail biter. Will this movie deliver those thrills, or are
we stuck with another wash out? I'll do my best to answer that
question, so sit back, and please read my latest thoughts. LIKES:• Nice tool development • Emma Watson • Culturally Relevant Film •
Solid Moral LessonSummary: We all know technology is becoming the heart of the world, if
not already the heart of this country. And certainly, we all know that
these technological marvels often require laborious development and
maintenance to get the bugs out. The Circle portrays this very well,
helping to develop the very tool that we all love. Throughout the
journey, you'll get to see the development of the two-faced beast that
is technology, and how it requires tweaking to get just "right". Not
the highest selling point for a movie, but pretty cool. Of course, we all know many are going to go for the lovely Ms. Watson,
to support the super actress they adore. Good news, Watson does a solid
job holding up most of the movie, as she is primary the only main
character of the film. Watson brings her charm to the screen once more,
portraying intelligence, fortitude and inspiration in a manner that
many will latch on to. Her accent is pretty sound (though it fluctuates
at times), but she manages to deliver her lines with a decent balance
of emotion, to sell her points… most of the time. Yet the biggest strength of these movies is how culturally relevant it
is to the audience. If you didn't gleam it from the trailers, The
Circle is essentially a modernized version of the novel 1984 that once
more addresses the issues of control, life sharing, and privacy. The
film is certainly very political, but has a number of powerful lessons
to teach about the place of technology and how easily it can be
twisted. I myself liked the comments from Emma's followers, a fantastic
representation of the shallow, superficial, and often selfish focus
that the internet provides. The scenes are well developed to deliver
the full emotional punch, which while not the most unique, can really
shock you to the core at how true it can be. DISLIKES: • Cheesy acting at times • Other actors diluted • Missed
character development • Ignorant/Idiotic moments • Lack of SuspenseSummary: Despite Watson's strong performance, she is involved in some
overly cheesy moments. On many of the emotionally heated moments, she
loses her balance and stretches into the overdramatic region, losing
her accent and dialogue forte in the process. But even her worst acting
doesn't hold a candle to some of the supporting characters who give
either emotionally dull deliveries or lackluster performances. These
moments are noticeable enough to offset the momentum of the movie, and
derailing it from the quality the trailers promised. An even worse quality for me was how the other actors of the
star-studded cast were reduced to simplistic roles. Legends like Tom
Hanks, Patton Oswalt and even the late Bill Paxton are reduced to very
linear roles, with little character development or expansion beyond
what you've seen in the trailer. With such a strong cast, I can't help
but feel disappointed at the missed potential of this movie and how
much this all-star cast could have done to amp up the quality of this
movie. Even worse, some of the characters, primarily Emma Watson's character,
become so blindly ignorant that the intelligence they worked so hard
building is diluted to an idiotic level. As a result, I found myself
starting to loathe the character and how 180 they took the character.
Yes, I understand the premise behind the movie, but it didn't work for
me. Other characters also fell into this mix as well, each built to
have this incredible skill that was either not used or rapidly reversed
to make the characters seem weak. Yet the most disappointing aspect of this movie…is the lack of
suspense. The trailer made this film out to be a mystery meeting
dystopian policing. Not the case at all. The Circle has no mystery,
laying all the facts on the table and leaving little to be uncovered.
You would think there would be intense moments of espionage, or
policing by superiors to build up excitement, right? Sorry, this film
doesn't have that either, with the "exciting climax" not showing up
until the last twenty minutes of the movie. As such, the movie is
pretty dull and lacks the entertainment quality you might have been
seeking. The VERDICT:The Circle is indeed a "scary" film, but it's mainly due to the reality
check provides concerning the dangers technology can provide. This
strong message is certainly the strongest aspect of the movie and Emma
Watson was a fantastic choice to deliver it. Unfortunately, the weak
characters, diluted roles, and lack of suspense took away from the
entertainment quality of the movie. Such a dull delivery, leaves me
recommending this one for renting at home, or at least recommending you
read the book (or books) it is based on. My scores are:Drama/Sci-Fi/Thriller: 6.0 Movie Overall: 5.0
