3
Wanted to like it

Before any of you even make the slightest remark about watching a movie
made by directors whose movies I didn't like I will tell you that I
only watched it to see if the Soska's have improved. Well they did...
Not by much though.First and foremost. The plot is that Mary Mason is a broke medical
student that will do anything to make money. She gets a call from
someone asking if Mary can remove skin off another woman's nipples and
sew her vagina shut. After that she begins to modify other people,
making them freaks of nature. While this is happening she gets raped by
her former lecturer. This results in her practicing her body modifying
skills on him, dismembering him, sewing his mouth shut and other basic
tortures.Okay, where do I start? Nothing about this is scary. It's disgusting,
but I don't see that as a form of horror. If you also don't see it as a
form of horror then leave this where it is.Then we move onto the acting. As usual The Soska's are crap. I know,
they played a small role in this one but I think they deserve a special
mention. I did hear from people that they needed a director to say
"tone it down" but because I have seen them in movies directed by other
people, they still weren't any good. When I heard that Katherine
Isabelle was in this after seeing "Dead Hooker In A Trunk" I thought
that she could maybe carry the movie. She didn't (which only says I
overestimated her acting ability, nothing more). The rest are as
forgettable as this review will be 10 years after you last read it.If the goal of the Soska's was to create a movie where the audience
just goes through the motions, not caring about a single thing that
goes on screen nor have anything that really sticks out then they have
succeeded with me.But from what I've seen a majority of the people on IMDb think it's
decent. If you want to ignore me and go for the popular choice then
that is perfectly fine. But if you have a taste in movies that is like
mine then avoid this Cronenberg imitation.
