3
Massively Underwhelming

As I walked out of the theater where my friend and I had just paid $11
each to see this film, I thought to myself, "Well, maybe next time
they'll actually make a movie." Because I would not really consider
this a movie. It is a half-baked, moody character sketch of an
unbelievable character. As another reviewer pointed out, Llewyn Davis
is quite good looking and capable of performing passionately. To think
that not one of the women in the clubs he plays would offer him a place
to sleep for the night is absurd. That is only one example of how the
film favors contrivance over believability. John Goodman's character is
another big one. The movie is a pointless waste of time, a dreary faux-odyssey about a
character who is such an awful, self-centered person that you could not
possibly care what happens to him. But don't worry, because nothing
happens to him. The film ends as it begins, with him getting beaten up
for being a selfish jerk. As many have pointed out, this movie does not
capture the heady, vibrant spirit of the early 60s folk scene in NYC.
If you want that, read Bob Dylan's wonderful Chronicles, Vol. I. I've enjoyed many of the Coen Brothers films, but they just phoned this
one in, I guess. Or they've become so enamored with their own Hollywood
brilliance that they can't tell good from bad. And Hollywood is so
shallow and moronic that I would not be surprised if this gets
nominated for "Best Film." Yeah, right. I enjoy a lot of folk music, from early Dylan to Nick Drake and many
others, but the songs in this film were long and boring and
unmemorable. Huge amounts of the film are devoted to Llewyn singing
ENTIRE SONGS (like five or six minute long songs) that are in no way
remarkable. I guess that's the point, since he's supposed to be
failure. Instead of devoting film time to character or plot
development, to comedy or entertainment, we are supposed to be
entranced somehow by the emotion of this fake music. I guess it worked
magic on professional film critics. The "Please Mr. Kennedy" novelty
song was beyond stupid. And when Davis abandoned the cat in the car
with the passed out, possibly even dead, Goodman character, I thought,
"Screw this guy! I hate him. I hope he gets beaten up again. I'll beat
him up." As a work of art, which it clearly aspires to be, this movie lacks
intricacy, depth, or insight. The Coens already covered this material
with Barton Fink, which I've always enjoyed, but BF was a much more
satisfying and entertaining film. I'd rather go see a mindless Star
Trek movie than something this pretentious and intentionally pointless.
I don't want to see it again, not even for a buck at Redbox. This is
the worst Coen Bros movie I've seen.
