6
Grossly underwhelming (spoiler free)

Spoiler free review. Let me first start of by saying that I am not a
Marvel ''fanboy'' or a DC nerd. The comic book genre of films have made
it to my personal top 3 favourite genres in the last decade and the MCU
has been a strong contributor to that rise. I hold the first Ironman,
first Avengers and Captain America 1+2 in high regard. I did not like
the direction they took with Iron Man 3 (more on this below) or
Guardians of the Galaxy but Winter Soldier was a gem in terms of
balancing solid action, drama and levity.That being said, my initial thoughts on Age of Ultron (AoU) are quite
negative. To me, its essentially a carbon copy of IM3. There are
problems which strike you repeatedly as you progress throughout the
film. The 2 biggest complaints I have with AoU is 1) the tone (comedy)
2) the script/writing.So starting with the tone. I like to laugh as I'm sure most people do,
but there is a time and place to exhibit your comedy writing skills in
an action film. In AoU, its a constant, recurring and predictable
theme. It's not limited to one character either, everyone is popping
one liner jokes as if its the Expendables and yes, most are not funny.
The timing of these moments of levity are horrible too, desensitising
the viewer to any impending fear of death in battle. If the characters
seem so relaxed in not worrying about possibly dying, then what
suspense is needed to be held by the audience? This plagued IM3 in a
bad way and its arguably worse here. The comic book films which
achieved great success in this regard were XMen DOFP, The Avengers 1,
Cap 2 even Dark Knight Rises! Can you imagine at the climax of Xmen
DOFP if old Magneto and Storm and Bishop start pulling one liner jokes
as the army of sentinels came charging at them? It would kill any
tension! 2) The script. I won't say too much since this is a spoiler
free review, but it really feels rushed and unorganised. I watched Fast
7 around 2 weeks before AoU and I got similar vibes. Again, its not the
fact that the film is 2.5 hours long or has too many characters, that
isn't am excuse since The Dark Knight and Xmen DOFP shows how to
navigate these theatrical obstacles. There are a few completely
unnecessary subplots in AoU and useless characters which do not impact
the story overall. The villain himself, Ultron is another massive
let-down in Marvels already growing catalogue of mishandled villains.So as a summary, if you want mindless action and cool CGI, which this
film does offer in the form of some spectacular visual fight scenes
then you will like AoU. If you are after a darker, grounded and more
moving story like the trailers promised, you will be severely
disappointed. Final score 6/10 and I am being kind since Cap is my fav
Avenger and they finally gave him some good screen time.
