1
Great visuals serve only as a distraction from a overbearingly preachy plot and shallow characters.

I'm going to go ahead and say it outright. This film flat out takes the
cake for the most overrated film of the year. This is unwarranted and
uninspired Oscar bate on a Hurt Locker level. For the first time in a
very long time I have actually left a movie feeling I had wasted my
money.You all know the plot. A boy finds himself adrift at sea with a
dangerous tiger after a horrific shipwreck. At the start of the film we
are subjected to a meandering and drawn-out set up for themes and
characters that do not even see a reprise or conclusion before the end
of the film. It really felt like this film was stretching every scene
and concept to a breaking point to fill the three hour artistic
precedent established by previous Oscar winners like Return of the
King. It just drags and drags until we are finally privy to the main
plot. But then, the films biggest problem comes to a head: the theme.The film's theme cannot even be adequately described as it lacks any
focus or objectivity. It simply comes off as an overbearing theistic
agenda slathered onto an unrelated story. It presents itself as a
lesson about faith, but doesn't convey this message in any other
fashion than saying "I had faith and I survived, therefore you should
have faith." As a critical thinker, I simply counter the point by
demonstrating that if a faithless person was put in the same position
as the main character and made the same decisions (since none of these
decisions were based his faith) they would have identical outcomes.
There in lies the problem: the lesson is not demonstrated through means
of the story or character progression. It is literally told to you
every few scenes via frequent and uninspired narration. The first rule
in screen writing is a simple one: Show, don't tell. After all, film is
a visual medium. Apparently the screenwriter missed the memo.What else is there to say? The acting was wooden. The score was big but
not memorable. The only thing I can give to the film's credit is some
beautiful cinematography and an effective use of 3D. But presentation
is all for naught if the story is ineffective, and Life of Pi never
once managed to grab me, move me or convince me of anything. It serves
only as a colossal waste of money and time; my own and Hollywood's.
