9
A fine, fitting farewell to an iconic character, LOGAN is one of the best superhero movies ever made.

Let's cut to the chase, shall we? In every beat, every frame, every
moment, LOGAN feels like the Wolverine movie Hugh Jackman has been
waiting (and training) for 17 years to make. Set free of a PG rating,
this wildly kinetic film has plenty of gore, action and violence
pumping through its veins. But what makes this one of the finest
superhero movies ever produced is the big, messy, somewhat broken heart
beating at its core. Set in a grim near-future where very few mutants remain alive, we meet
an unthinkable incarnation of our favourite enclawed superhero: one
who's decidedly past his prime. This is not the near-immortal Wolverine
we remember, but Logan (Jackman): a broken, far older man who feels the
weight of every wound inflicted upon him. His once- formidable body –
tattooed with scars that aren't healing as fast or as well as they used
to – seems to be failing. It's only his determination to keep the
ailing, ageing Professor Charles Xavier (Stewart) safe and alive that
never falters. The film's plot kicks into overdrive when Logan's fate becomes
entangled with that of Laura (Keen), a close-to-feral young girl who
brandishes claws and fury as fierce and lethal as Logan's own. As the
unlikely trio go on the run, we see echoes of Logan himself in Laura's
terrifying rage and the tentative emotional connection she forges with
Xavier. It's one of many smart moves on the part of James Mangold, who
does double duty as director and co-writer. Bringing Laura into the
picture allows him to explore Logan's trauma, regret and hope through
the filter of this pint-sized powerhouse's origin story.In effect, Mangold has placed an intimate family drama squarely at the
heart of this ostensible blockbuster film – strip the characters of
their superpowers and LOGAN would still pulse with plenty of heartbreak
and humanity. Logan keeps dragging himself through the world when one
suspects all he wants to do is die. Xavier grapples with his own
frailty as his once-sharp mind deteriorates and betrays him, again and
again. Laura is a tough, tender mess of contradictions: a victim of
horrific abuse but also a warrior in the making. Watching them interact
– fighting, screaming, arguing, glaring and, once in a while, forgiving
– will elicit laughter and tears (lots of tears), in a way that no
other superhero film to date has quire managed.That doesn't mean, however, that LOGAN is an entirely joyless, sombre
affair. Far from it. It proves, quite conclusively, that films in this
genre can plumb the darkest of psychological depths while finding
welcome ways to leaven the misery. (Note: this is something Zack Snyder
would do well to learn as he continues to expand DC's largely mirthless
cinematic universe.) Mangold threads moments of genuine humour into the
proceedings – from casual shoplifting and runaway horses, to an ornery
old man who refuses to take his pills. The fast and furious action beats in LOGAN are also quite delightful to
witness. The violence that's on full, bloody display is dark and
horrible, but somehow fitting for this film in which there really are
consequences for battles fought and lost. It's only when you see
Logan's claws plunging into flesh, shearing cleanly through meat and
bone, that you realise just how neutered and family-friendly his
earlier outings were. There's a slow-motion sequence halfway through
the film, as Logan struggles to get to an embattled Xavier, that's
gritty and beautiful to watch – as thrilling as that scene-stealing
Quicksilver moment in X-Men: Days Of Future Past. And it goes without
saying that watching Laura gracefully spin and slice her way through
oncoming attackers manages to be terribly wrong and wonderfully right
at the same time. To be quite frank, none of this would work without the incredible cast,
all of them doing award-worthy work that will, sadly, be overlooked
because their characters have such silly things as 'powers'. It's truly
unsettling to watch Stewart dig beneath his natural gravitas to find
the shaken core of a Professor X who's semi-consciously losing grip of
his mind – the best and most dangerous mind in the universe. Keen is a
revelation. Grabbing this breakout role by the throat and making it
very much her own, she somehow manages to convey Laura's childish
fragility and overpowering strength, often in the same breath. And, finally, there's Jackman. He's been training for and playing the
role that catapulted him to global stardom for 17 years now, and he
brings everything he has to this final outing as Logan. He nails
Logan's physical tics, of course: from his grizzled and aged demeanour,
to his rattling cough and copious drinking. But Jackman also takes
delight in unearthing the dark sadness at the heart of this once
invincible, now vulnerable man. There is a hope and purity in Logan
that doesn't always show through his wisecracks, but it shines brightly
and unexpectedly here – often in the film's saddest moments. There are a handful of things about the film don't work quite so well.
The main antagonists, played by Richard E. Grant and Boyd Holbrook, are
largely forgettable – there's not much that defines them outside their
nefarious goals. As many viewers may be turned off by Logan's
relentless misery and eye-popping violence as those who welcome it.But this doesn't detract from the fact that LOGAN is a remarkable
achievement. It manages to be several things at once: a bruising action
film, a tender family drama and an intimate character study, liberally
shaken through with comic-book sensibilities and a Western or two. If
Jackman really is hanging up his claws for good, there could be no
better way to bid farewell to one of Marvel's most enduring and
appealing characters.
