1
Horrendously acted, incoherently written, waste of time.

Jeez. This movie. I loathe nearly everything about this film, but let's
go ahead and knock out these positives. Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets is visually stunning—
sometimes. There is a great deal of imagination that went into the art
design here, and this definitely separates this film from the overly
saturated sci-fi sub genre. The ambition showed in the world building
of this universe is commendable, director Luc Besson really goes for it
here. The vast majority of this film is completely CGI- rendered, and
for the most part, the CGI is well done. The opening sequence that
kicks this film off is breathtaking, and while it shares similarities
to James Cameron's Avatar, there is an uniqueness to it that really
draws the audience in.As soon as our two human protagonists come on screen—which mind you, is
immediately after the impressive opening sequence—the film screeches to
a halt, losing every speck of momentum garnered in the first twenty
minutes.Dane DeHaan and Cara Delevingne portray cardboard cutouts—oh, I mean
special government agents tasked with some of the universe's most
important tasks. I wish there was something good I could say about the
performances from these two. But, nearly every time DeHaan opened his
mouth to speak all, I could do was sigh. This is clearly a role meant
for a charismatic actor, the likes of someone like Chris Pratt, Tom
Cruise, or Will Smith. Instead, this film has DeHaan, who gives such an
extremely wooden performance that it is borderline painful. The
chemistry between DeHaan and Delevingne is nonexistent. The romantic
relationship between these two characters maybe could have been
believable with a different pair of actors. With these two brick walls
though? Nah. The film screeches to a halt far too many times to give
focus to unbearable romantic moments between the two—many of which hurt
me physically. What really rose my blood pressure here was the script. Dare I say, I
prefer the dialogue and narrative from the Transformers: The Last
Knight over what is present in this film's monstrosity of a screenplay.
This film thinks it is hilarious and charming, just like Transformers
did. This film is immensely unfunny and repulsive, just like
Transformers is. The attempts at quips and back-and-forth jokes are
insufferable, getting less funny and more amateurish as the film goes
on. DeHaan and Delevingne definitely deserve some of the blame for
this, but the godawful writing doesn't provide them much room to be
anything more than annoying. The plot manages to be more jumbled than anything I have seen all year.
There are whole sections of this film that have nothing to do with the
narrative set up in the opening act. This is a 2 hour and 20 minute
film that has no business being anything over 90 minutes. A whole third
of this film could be cut out, (specifically the detour that features
singer/songwriter Rihanna) and nothing about the ending would change. I
should have walked out of this movie somewhere near that 90 minute
mark, but, like Transformers, I hoped the final act would be this
film's saving grace. It wasn't.If you spent money your hard-earned money on this film this weekend, I
truly apologize. While this is not the cinematic cancer that the
Transformers franchise continues to be—Valerian is a horrendously
acted, incoherently written, waste of time. 
