9
Gripping, Intense, Beautifully shot, with Unforgettable Performances

HAIL MACBETH, HAIL MACBETH, HAIL MACBETH.WOW, that was a gripping, intense, beautifully shot film with
unforgettable performances and has to be the best retellings of not
only 'Macbeth' but all of Shakespeare's plays on screen. This movie did
an incredibly amazing job at sticking to the source material whilst
also incorporating a visually stunning cinematic style. It has a very
interesting cinematic style using slow motion effects and sped up film
in order to capture the emotions that the characters are feeling at
every moment. I was in awe at how beautiful this film was, the wide
shots of the landscapes were incredible whether there was something
going on or nothing at all. And i don't know where the cgi in this film
was if there was much at all because it all looks so incredibly real
and grand and it only adds to the scope of the film. The movie's
amazing cinematography is accompanied by many amazing performances
including two of the best performances this year. Sean Harris and David Thewlis were standouts in their supporting roles
as Macduff and Duncan and really displayed some of their best
performances but the show was stolen by the two leads. Michael
Fassbender and Marion Cotillard as Macbeth and Lady Macbeth were
absolutely mind- blowing and amazing and encapsulated these characters
as perfectly as you could get. They did incredible jobs at playing
these extremely complex personalities and led me to see only Macbeth
and Lady Macbeth, forgetting their previous roles. They pull of their
monologues so well that you are fully engaged in what they are saying
and can see that what they are feeling is not only expressed through
what they are saying but just from the expressions on their faces. And
Lady Macbeth's most iconic scene/monologue was represented so perfectly
that it was one of the best and most gripping scenes in the film. The
Oscar race is heating up and Fassbender and Cotillard have to be the
front-runners for Best Actor and Actress, truly amazing. Having read the play a little while ago i was able to still recall many
of the key events and know mostly what was coming up next. So hearing
plenty of familiar lines from the play and seeing these scenes was
incredibly rewarding. And reading the play i feel helped to follow
along with what is happening at all times. But for someone unfamiliar
with the story of Macbeth i think it might be a little hard to follow
at times. This is definitely not a film where you can look away for
even a minute and still know what is going on. If you miss a few lines
of dialogue or zone out during a scene, when you zone back into the
film you will probably be lost. The Shakespearean dialogue is probably
going to be a barrier for people to understand and if you can't
understand that dialogue you really won't like this film. But as i was
saying i felt that if i hadn't read the play i would have been quite
lost during the film. If you aren't paying careful attention and
reading into even the most subtle of hints some scenes will seem random
and you'll have no idea what is going on. So i think this is definitely
not for general audiences who just want to relax and check out a film,
it requires a fair amount of attention. So in the end, it is beautifully shot, intense, extremely well acted
and a great adaptation of this incredible play. Maybe not for the
general audience but any fans of the source material or lovers of film
should love this movie. - 8.6/10
