4
A zombie film that lacks bite

It seems unfair to criticise the film for not being like its source
material given that it obviously didn't try to be but I'm going to
start by bringing that up anyway. The book had so many sequences that
could have been turned into amazing set-pieces in a film and yet not
one of them were used. The book also had some neat ideas about how a
global outbreak and response play out. What might work? What would
catastrophically fail? What would the cost be? Not one of these ideas
were explored or even alluded to and there seems absolutely no reason
why this was the case.It might have been okay to abandon these ideas if the film had some
ideas of its own to explore or at least play out but it doesn't.
Instead we follow Brad Pitt and Brad Pitt's baggage through a few
set-pieces as he first escapes from and then looks into an outbreak of
zombies. There's little else to say about it than that.The first major problem came down to the zombies themselves. For a
zombie film to get that right is critical and World War Z stumbled
pretty badly here. The physical appearance of the zombies is a clear
problem. Given the film's penchant for shying away from blood and gore
to keep its rating audience-friendly, the only things that separates
these zombies from regular people are milky eyes, grey skin, and a
tendency to bare and snap their teeth. They're not the bloodthirsty
creatures at various stages of decay and ruin that feature in most
zombie films. This is generally fine in close-ups but at a distance
it's impossible to tell the zombies apart from regular people. And when
most of your action scenes involve panicking people running away from
what are allegedly zombies, having them pretty much indistinct from
each other means you never get much of an inclination about the level
of the threat or even what's going on.A possible solution would have been for the film to opt for the
shambling moaning Romero-esque zombies of the book. Instead of running
and tackling, having a slowly ever-advancing tide of danger would have
turned the zombies into something to be feared rather than something to
try and spot in a crowd.But even later when the film displays zombies in their 'docile' state
its shown how little the film-makers understand how zombies are
supposed to work. The jerking around and screeches were meant to be
threatening and they are anything but. They are borderline slapstick
and certainly comical judging by the outbreaks of laughter in the
audience at my screening. They clicked their teeth together as if they
enjoyed the sound. They repeatedly hit their heads against the wall in
a way that was meant to seem deranged but just came across as silly.
They spun and jerked around leading to a hilarious sequence of Pitt and
two others essentially playing "Red Light/Green Light" with a snarling
zombie. Nothing about these zombies seemed to work as intended.The second major problem came down to the complete lack of weight or
tension. Brad Pitt isn't the type of actor anyone expects to be in
danger, at least not when he's in an action film, so already there's
the knowledge that he's fairly safe. But added to that, his character
is a practically invulnerable bad-ass UN investigator whose field
knowledge and ingenuity makes him able to adapt to any situation. His
'baggage', as I referred to them earlier, is played at first by his
wife and two daughters as well as an orphan boy - far too cute to ever
come into real harm in a film like this. The baggage is then played by
a doctor and a team of soldiers who are so bereft of personality and
character that there is no reason to care about them. He then teams up
with a young Israeli soldier who is the closest person aside from Pitt
to qualify to be called a character but unfortunately she doesn't seem
to serve any purpose. His final baggage comes in the form of a team of
WHO doctors. I won't say anything about them aside from pointing out
that all four are named in the credits as "W.H.O. Doctor" despite being
a key part of around a quarter of the film. Though I wouldn't recommend the film, to its credit it managed to
attain a level of being entertaining and it never embarrassed itself,
(despite a squeamish bit of product placement.) It was clearly let down
by a few core problems and while certainly not a good film I'd feel a
bit mean if I were to label it 'bad'. I'm disappointed that it painted
itself as a zombie film for zombie fans while clearly being a toothless
blockbuster to appeal to a broader audience, (however understandable
that move may be from a film studio's perspective given the production
problems and cost blow-out.) For this reason maybe the film tripped up
and fell flat on its face but as it dragged itself to the finish line
I'm willing to applaud it for that at least. I suppose all I can do it sit here and try to imagine what might have
been...
