6
Plain as an old Tin Pail

Greetings again from the darkness. We have come to expect our Westerns
to be filled with stoic heroes and nasty villains, but this film
delivers a pious, yappy leading lady paired with a selfish, no frills
drifter. Based on the 1988 novel from Glendon Swarthout, it's also the
second directorial outing from Tommy Lee Jones (The Three Burials of
Melquiades Estrada, 2005).Hilary Swank play Mary Bee Cuddy, a name repeated so many times that it
will surely stick with you ... even if the movie doesn't. Thirty-one
years old and unmarried, Ms. Cuddy is not without talent. She works the
plough horses, cooks up fried chicken, and plays a mean fake piano. As
is pointed out to her a couple of times, she is also "bossy" and
"plain" looking ... neither trait especially appealing to men in the
wild west.Ms. Cuddy volunteers to take three local women to Iowa. The three women
(Grace Gummer, Miranda Otto, Sonja Richter) have each gone insane, and
somehow Iowa is the most civilized place within a wagon ride's
distance. She teams up with a low-life drifter played by Tommy Lee
Jones, after they strike a deal that allows him to escape certain
death. The verbal clash of cultures and personality between the two
main characters provides most of the action on screen, as the three
women being escorted are mostly muted and either locked in the back of
the wagon or tied to a wagon wheel during riding breaks.The film is at its best when focusing on the harsh realities of
frontier life. Cinematographer Rodrigo Prieto (Brokeback Mountain) does
a nice job of capturing the wide expanse and stark vastness of the
landscape, while also tossing in some artsy silhouettes and abruptness
of this life. Director Jones utilizes some haphazardly timed flashbacks
to help us better understand the plight of the three women, but this
could have been done much more effectively. Courage, inner-strength,
and morality all play a role here and the contrast between frontier and
civilization was most distinct.Much of the film plays like an oddball buddy picture - think Nolte and
Murphy in 48 Hours, or Bogart and Hepburn in The African Queen. If you
find the interaction between Swank and Jones to be realistic, then you
will probably buy into the whole film. If not, the lack of flow and
choppiness of scenes will jump out. There seems to be a never ending
stream of little more than cameos from a tremendous line-up of actors:
Barry Corbin, William Fichtner, Jesse Plemons, David Dencik, Evan
Jones, John Lithgow, Tim Blake Nelson, James Spader, and Hailee
Steinfeld. There are even a couple of scenes near the end featuring
Meryl Streep (her daughter Grace Gummer plays one of the 3 insane
women). The slew of familiar faces actually detracted from the story
for me, because the Swank and Jones characters just couldn't hold my
attention.The ending seems quite odd and a bit out of place for what we have just
watched, and I'm still confused by the line of dialogue addressing the
difficult "winter" they must have had on the wagon trip ... it's
clearly stated that the trip began in May and would take a few weeks.
Even in Nebraska, May and June can't be considered winter. If you enjoy
Hilary Swank on a soapbox or Tommy Lee Jones dancing a jig, then
perhaps the pieces will fit better for you than they did for me.
