8
The philosophy of why we go to war

While this film was a little slow it delves into the heart of an issue
that has plagued us for centuries: why do we fight each other and why
do we go out of our way to kill each other. While this film involves
the beginning of a war between humans and apes, this war could
represent any war between two clans or factions, with the difference
being ideological, cultural, or even as pathetic as the colour of one's
skin. It is clear that the hostilities that arise come down to
differences that are pretty much only skin deep, and that is that one
side are apes and the other side is human.As I watched this film though it made me think about the wars that are
brewing, or raging, around the globe, and how many of these wars begin
through misunderstandings and outright lies. Among the apes we are
being told that humans are barbaric and dangerous, and that they cannot
be trusted. Among the humans we are told that the apes are responsible
for the virus that devastated humanity. Then there is the manipulation
of facts and the propaganda that begins the war, as well as the
struggle within the factions, between those who see war as being
pointless, as well as those who believe that it is necessary, because
those who do not go to war are weak and will end up being overthrown.There is also the misunderstandings and the distrust between the two
sides, for while they are told to discard their weapons, there is one
that always has to ignore the request due to the fear that by
discarding their weapons they open themselves up to being attacked and
being defenceless. Of course there are those who are always looking for
a peaceful solution, trying to work together, however the peaceful ones
are always being undermined by the war mongers, who for some reason
seem to have the loudest voices.Sometimes I wonder whether Hollywood actually supports the warmongers
in power, or whether they are closer to the left as the right claim
they are. For me it is the Hollywood dichotomy in that they have
aspects of both the left and the right within their culture. Obviously
there is the lose morals of many of the characters, and of course the
idea that seeking revenge for being wronged is actually okay (which
seems to form the basis of many an action movie). In this film it is
the question of war, and the fact that when it comes to war, those who
cry for war, and those who manipulate the truth to fuel the passions of
the masses, are those that then to come out on top, and those who
advocate for peace are seen as weak, and in some cases, unpatriotic.
