10
Don't let "Hidden Figures" be a hidden treasure!

Appreciation. It's a condition which requires information and
understanding and results in increased compassion, acceptance and
inclusiveness. There are few ways to enhance appreciation for others
more effectively than a well-made movie and the 2016 historical drama
"Hidden Figures" (PG, 2:07) takes full advantage of that opportunity.
Without being too busy or too preachy, this film helps the audience
better appreciate the struggles of being a minority – and a working
woman (and even a mother working outside the home) – in the early
1960s, the pressure involved in competing with the Soviet Union in the
early years of the space race, the difficult challenges surrounding
getting man into space (and returning him safely to earth) for the
first time and the courage it required of those who were willing to go.
That's a lot for one movie – and might be too much for many – but
"Hidden Figures" is up to the challenge.The film is an adaptation of Margot Lee Shetterly's book of the same
name and follows three black women who worked in NASA's computer
section in 1961. That's not to say that they worked on computers – THEY
were the computers. Back when electronic computers (with only a
fraction of the capacity and speed of today's mainframes) took up an
entire room – and were just beginning to be installed in places like
NASA – talented mathematicians did calculations for the space program
by hand.Dorothy Vaughn (Oscar winner Octavia Spencer) is a mathematician who is
also mechanically-inclined, develops a talent for programming IBM
computers and is a natural leader, but is denied a well-deserved
supervisory position by NASA culture – and her supervisor (Kirsten
Dunst). Katherine Johnson (Taraji P. Henson) is a brilliant
mathematician who struggles to balance the demands of her increasing
responsibilities at NASA with caring for her three young daughters
whose father has passed away. Mary Jackson (Janelle Monáe) is an
outspoken aspiring engineer who is held back from becoming an actual
engineer because of her lack of education, which she has difficulty
overcoming because of segregation.All three women make progress in their attempts to reach their goals
and fulfill their potential, but with much difficulty, based on their
gender and their race. Dorothy has been managing the women of the
computer section for some time, but has to fight for the title and the
pay – and even takes it upon herself to learn more about NASA's
newly-arrived IBM computer, while understanding that doing so could
eventually cost her and her co-workers their jobs. Mary continues to
make valuable contributions to NASA's efforts, while trying to work
through the catch-22 of needing additional education to become an
engineer, with the only nearby school offering such classes refusing to
accept any black students.But most of the screen time belongs to Katherine's story. As the most
talented mathematician of all of NASA's human computers, she is called
up to work in NASA's Space Task Group where she works directly with the
standoffish Paul Stafford (Jim Parsons) and is supervised by the
group's director, Al Harrison (Kevin Costner). Even as Katherine
continues to demonstrate her capabilities, she is still subjected to
drinking coffee from a pot labeled "Colored" and having to walk 20
minutes (each way) to the building where the nearest restroom for black
females is located. Eventually, she earns the respect of her peers –
and comes to the attention of astronaut John Glenn (Glen Powell)
himself, who comes to trust her calculations above all others.
Katherine also attracts a different kind of attention from the
commander of a local Army Reserve base, Lt. Col. Jim Johnson
(Mahershala Ali), who is also single. Embodying the dual meaning of the
movie's title, Katherine works out the hidden figures needed for
Glenn's mission and Jim doesn't mind that her figure is hidden beneath
those unflattering 1960s dresses, as he comes to care more about her
heart – and the very sharp mind hidden behind her even less flattering
eye glasses."Hidden Figures" is a marvelously entertaining film. The script
adaptation by Allison Schroeder and Theodore Melfi tells its true story
accurately and engagingly, weaving its many story lines together
seamlessly, educating and entertaining their audience throughout. Melfi
also directs and uses his talented and award-worthy cast to thrill us,
to make us cheer and give us moments of humor and just plain fun. I was
impressed at how much this movie packed in without seeming cluttered,
how much it affected me emotionally without being manipulative, and how
much appreciation I gained for these women, their struggles and the
importance of the times in which they lived and accomplished so much.
It's also surprising that so little has been widely known about these
women – until now. Don't let "Hidden Figures" be a hidden treasure. See
it soon! It's… out of this world. "A+"
