2
Portman's "Jackie" is much more neurotic than poised

There are few films that I question the necessity of making in the
first place. Jackie, a historical drama chronicling our former first
lady's practical and emotional reactions to the events leading up to
and during the funeral of our 35th president, is one such film. What
possibly can be learned about someone's life chronicling the time
period leading up to a funeral—an event where any person would be most
vulnerable? Instead of perhaps imagining what kind of relationship Jackie had with
Jack Kennedy when he was alive, director Pablo Larrain prefers to bring
us pale imitations of historical TV broadcasts (such as Jackie's famed
1962 televised tour of the White House) or the more salacious exploding
head of JFK when he's hit by the assassin's bullet (haven't we seen
enough of that on Youtube in clip after clip of the Zapruder film?).Larrain, utilizing a screenplay by Noah Oppenheim, creates a fictional
framing device, an imagined interview between Jackie Kennedy and a
fictional reporter (played by a somewhat unkempt Billy Crudup) at
Hyannisport, asking a slew of inappropriate questions of Jackie
regarding her recent recollection as to the the events leading up to
JFK's funeral.Even if one concedes there is a necessity in presenting such a behind
the scenes look, there has to be a determined verisimilitude in the
presentation. Actors have to look and sound like the historical
personages they're playing; otherwise, the events won't seem real at
all, and one will get the impression that we're looking at a mere
imitation of the events as opposed to the real McCoy.The number one offender here is of course Natalie Portman, who does
fairly well in re-creating Jackie's way of speaking which reminds one
of a muted Carol Channing, but is unable to convey any of her poise or
gravitas. Instead, she aims to present Jackie as a neurotic, perhaps
made more unhinged by the assassination. Mick LaSalle, writing in the
SF Chronicle, hits the nail on the head when he writes: "But no insight
can be gleaned or arrived at through a portrayal of Jackie Kennedy as
having been a fragile, emotional cripple at the height of her influence
and popularity. Once that happens, we're just not talking about the
same woman anymore, and all that's left is an actress playing dress-up
in a bloodstained pink Chanel suit and a pillbox hat."Worse than Portman is Peter Sarsgaard as Bobby Kennedy. In perhaps the
worst casting choice in a few decades, Sarasgaard doesn't look or sound
like Bobby in the least and appears as a strange interloper opposite
Portman. John Carroll Lynch as LBJ also doesn't feel like he inhabits
the body of our former president but Beth Grant is great as Lady Bird
and Caspar Phillipson is decent enough as JFK, during the brief scenes
in which he appears.In addition to the salacious moments of the assassination itself, the
Jackie "plot" mainly focuses on her indecision as to whether the
participants at the funeral should walk with the casket, causing
security concerns. There are more effective moments where Jackie must
explain JFK's death to Caroline and John Jr., but even those somehow
feel intrusive, even after all these years. Speaking of intrusive,
director Larrain is determined to inject Mica Levi's overly mournful
music into almost scene, reminding us that we're continually in the
midst of a funeral.Only the late John Hurt as a consoling priest to Jackie brings any true
gravitas to the overall proceedings. If you wish to learn about Jackie Kennedy there are many documentaries
and features that are way better than this one. Kyle Smith writing in
the NY Post perhaps provides the most efficient benediction for this
hapless project: "Jackie" does more than a disservice — bordering on an
insult — to its subject: It's so obtuse about the history of mores that
it's the equivalent of showing Abraham Lincoln reading the Gettysburg
Address off a teleprompter."
