9
Darker and more mature than the original, yet just as endearing and fun; amazing visuals

Seeing the original 'How to Train Your Dragon' for the first time made
me feel like a kid again and it has since become one of my all-time
favorite films, so when I got a chance to see this, I was as much
worried as I was excited. In the past, some of the films I have
anticipated the most turned out to be the biggest disappointments, so I
took a deep breath and tried to lower my expectations going in. I
needn't have feared: I'm glad to report that Dean DeBlois has crafted a
beautifully animated tale that loses nothing of its predecessor's sense
of fun and adventure, while it enhances Hiccup's and Toothless' journey
into an almost classic - and unexpectedly touching - "coming-of-age"
story.While still colourful, playful and visually all over the place (I mean
that in a good way*), the tone of the sequel is noticeably darker and
the predominant themes are more mature. The writers made some (for
Hollywood movies) unusually daring decisions in having Hiccup face very
tough realities in life; especially one about the danger of
over-humanizing pets and forgetting about their animal nature. Small
children had perhaps better stay away, since the film is also quite a
bit scarier than the original. That's not saying that there isn't a lot
of humour – but the wisecracks of Jonah Hill & Co. will most certainly
be lost on the very young and are clearly targeted towards older
children and teenagers. *A word about the animation: This is among the most visually stunning
animated films I have ever seen; at times, there is so much eye-popping
spectacle on screen that you don't know where to focus anymore - this
one definitely needs a second viewing.My overall verdict: While the storyline may not be quite as
straightforward as the original's, the well written, credible character
development and the gorgeous visuals are more than satisfying. 'How to
Train Your Dragon 2' could have played it safe by merely repeating the
original's formula – it opted instead for the introduction of
fascinating new characters while giving the ones we know more
back-story and a chance to grow up and explore new territory. I would
say that next to 'Days of Future Past', this is one of the best sequels
Hollywood has produced in a very long time. 9 stars out of 10 (with the
option of a straight 10 once I've seen it again).Favorite Films: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054200841/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
