3
How can this be a cult movie?

OK, first let me admit that I haven't read the books, and I didn't even
know they existed: I was taken to the cinema by my girlfriend, who saw
something in the trailers I didn't which made her all excited. So, I
sat there with a clear mindset, no expectations, no prejudice, no
background info whatsoever. First things first: whoever invented the
the "let's shake the camera all around because it makes the movie so
much more lifelike" and convinced others to follow him or her, should
be shot. Twice, in fact, just to be sure...It is really annoying, and
so unnecessary: it is not making anything more real. For me, in many
cases the hectic and jerky camera movement seemed to be only a poor
attempt to mask fact that there is nothing (or not much) happening, but
it tries to make it look intense and action packed regardless. So
cheap...and apart from pissing me off, it didn't work at all, but I
admit I well may be a minority... The story feels like it is hanging in
the air. Again, I didn't read the books so the scenes may have been
adequately set there, but in the movie you get 10 lines, and off you
go...and it doesn't add much depth later on either. The most
fundamental question remained: what's the point? Sending 2 dozens of
younglings to slaughter won't hold aggression at bay in itself,
actually it is more likely that the infuriated parents driven mad from
the grieving over the unnecessary and pointless death of their children
will cry for revenge and go into resistance, or even spark a brutal
bloodbath (especially that it is an annual event, so sooner or later
everyone will be affected by friends or family). Also, the scale is
hanging in the air too, you don't know how the 2 opposing populations
(the "citizens" of the shiny new world and the habitants of the 12
district) relate to each other, which would be rather pivotal. I won't
go on with the many potholes, the bottom line for me is that the scene
was set simply poorly. The story, well, is very simple and straight,
once you stepped over the inadequate surroundings. Feels painfully
unfinished, and though I din't know there is a series behind, I told to
the (rather disappointed) missus in the end that it must be so because
they already have a sequel in mind. Knowing that gives a little excuse,
but still left a hollow "is this really it?" kind of feeling in the
both of us. The striking similarities with Battle Royal I'll leave
alone... Acting was OK, considering the absurdity of some of the
characters and the whole context (background and story). I'm sorry, I'm
not a big fan of the lead actress (Jennifer Lawrence), as I didn't even
know her before this movie (althogh I saw and really liked First Class,
but somehow couldn't connect). Regardless, she does a good job of
portraying and transferring the tension, fear and uncertainty of the
situation she is pulled into, at least a good number of scenes, in fact
her efforts were one of the few "ups" for me among the many "downs"
during that long 2,5 hours. Kudos to Elizabeth Banks as well for
creating a "sugar-monster" character, and also for the fact that though
I know her face well enough (just seen in Man on the ledge), here I
simply couldn't recognise :) Based on the movie itself, I really don't
know how this can be so popular, but I admit I'm probably not the
target audience, and also the books may be much better (well, it
wouldn't be difficult as the bar is set really low). Donald Sutherland
was brilliant saying "only hope is stronger than fear", but that and Ms
Lawrence's occasional shine doesn't make this worth to sacrifice and
evening for. I have a frequent visitor card so it didn't cost me
anything, but if I've paid almost 10 quids for this, I would be rather
upset...
