1
X Marked a Sore Spot

Let's put aside the fact that the found-footage genre is rapidly
becoming a poor excuse for real filmmaking and a sad gimmick. Let's
erase the fact that NONE of this would ever happen. EVER. And let's
ignore the obscene extension of a clichéd 5-minute You-Tube video
stretched for 88-over-long minutes that literally felt like twice that
long.The single worst aspect of Project X was how incredibly irresponsible
it was. Sure enough, younglings will flock to see this, adore it and
glamorize it to the point of attempting to recreate the horrible
actions of the horrible individuals in this film. Since this movie or
the creators have no soul or accountability to children, I can
miserably see the next found footage "documentary" would be on how to
make a bomb to bring to High School when no guns are accessible.Speaking of indignity: shame on you Harkins Theatres! My 4:40 Sunday
afternoon, half-packed showing was overrun guardian'less groups of
preteens and obviously-under-17 crowds. Sadly, they seemed to really
love, LOVE this movie, cheering and laughing at all the most
inappropriate times, i.e. when these senseless, inconsiderate,
thoughtless, brainless and evil characters destroyed property, hurt the
innocent and worst of all, felt zero remorse about their
actions/crimes. Eh, who am I fooling? Harkins employs the same mindset
teens to run the front of the movie house, so of course, they'll let
young punks into this Project X.Speaking of my unfortunate movie-going experience, these two adolescent
girls behind me laughed and laughed throughout, but oddly, not in the
finale. That's when I cracked up. Yes, I did laugh once. You see, the
main nerd, Thomas (whom I heard was "Sooo cute" by the preteens behind
me…repeatedly) wants to be accepted by his high school peers, or at
least the devil on his shoulder (Oliver) tells him that's what he
wants. In the climax, he's being high-fived and cheered on by his "new"
buddies when he walks down the school hall. I laughed in utter
disbelief because of how incredibly sad I was that all of these losers
actually lived through the party and how, if this were true, I will end
up having to pay for their inevitable many trips to prison later in
life.I digress. The movie's opening is a set-up to a birthday party for a
17-year-old (Thomas) whose parents strictly warn him not to have a big
party when they're out of town for the weekend. Well, flip-flopping
Thomas is controlled by the most evil of all the children, his "buddy"
Oliver, a boy whose self-esteem should be questioned each time he makes
homophobic comments (Oh, did you know if you don't drink alcohol,
you're considered a "faggot"?), racist remarks and insults against
their third musketeer, the heavier-set JB.During that small, yet, drawn-out opening of "Hey, Party at Thomas!" we
have yet another unbelievable series of explanations in yet another
incoherent found-footage movie to why one rarely seen psychopath
carries a camera one-quarter his body size. Apparently, no one notices
this camera in the classroom, in the boy's restroom or even worse, in
the boy's locker room. That last one had me really puzzled to why no
one seemed to mind being filmed while they changed or came back from
the showers. If you didn't see this massive camera on one guy's
shoulders while the other males are changing, you're either flipping
blind, an exhibitionist or, as usual, the filmmakers can't always
explain the flawed found-footage dilemma during 80% of the film.I digress, again. All but the final 3 minutes takes place at the most
incomprehensible and out of reach party of any generation. You will see
the obligatory midget stuffed into an oven that literally could kill
him. You'll see animal abuse that makes the tying of the dog in
National Lampoon's Vacation seem tame. You'll see "High School Girls,"
whose ages range between 25-30, that could model the bathing suits off
Sports Illustrated's Swimsuit Issue's females. You'll see freshmen
banned from the "festivities" while two 9-year-old Damien's work as
security guards. You'll see policemen that get outwitted by a punk
whose only legal expertise is from Judge Judy. You'll see two hot fight
impractically over a guy who makes Jay Baruchel look gorgeous. You'll
see five hundred perfectly placed and always water-proofed camera
angles from the delinquents as if they're hands were always free to
film with their phone cameras instead of holding onto the alcoholic
beverages they shouldn't be having anyways for another few years.
You'll see how both the movie's audience and the characters think it's
funny to burn down a house with a baby in it. (Literally, my theatre's
group of asses thought it would be funny to burn down a house with a
baby in it. SIGH. If this is Earth's future, bring it, Mayans!) And
you'll see how easy it is, when splicing the "found-footage" together,
to obtain police and news videos.What you won't see is any realism, or any resemblance to the real
world; even MTV's The Real World is more genuine. You won't see more
than one neighbor call the police – instead, they're busy calling the
nerd's Dad and "over-exaggerating" on the party's extend. You won't see
any adult with a double-digit IQ, but not in the fun/funny John Hughes
way. You won't see a plot. You won't find an original idea or thought.
You won't see a single female that would even come close to what a High
School girl really looks like. You won't find anything intentionally
funny. And you certainly won't find a single character with an ounce of
morality.And while this movie makes Jersey Shore ethical, Twilight's Bella a
good role-model and Charlie Sheen appear sane, the only thing honest in
this movie was the fake apology given by Warner Bros in the opening.
Don't see this movie. Don't pay them into a PX2.
