7
Gruesome at times, The Equalizer is a rewarding action film for every single Denzel Washington fan out there.

Rooting for a badass hero with a kickass attitude has never been as
satisfying as watching Denzel Washington dish out some brutal
punishment. This is exactly what you get in The Equalizer, an action
thriller based on the late 80's TV series of the same name, but amped
up with ultra-violent realism.Reunited after their collaboration in Training Day, Washington
(received his first Academy Award in a leading role) and director
Antoine Fuqua are back in this simple yet deadly effective action film.
Using a Mark Twain quote about people who find their true purpose late
in life, Washington plays Robert McCall, a loner and tragic widower
with a mysterious past. On the surface, he is an amiable home depot
worker who keeps to himself, indulging in conversations only when
spoken too, and slave to some sort of OCD while remaining invisible to
people around him. After befriending a Russian teen escort called
Alina, (Chloe Grace Moretz all grownup), and discovering she is the
victim of sexual abuse, McCall's nice-guy demeanor melts away to expose
an aura reverberating layers of darkening complexity. There's a tightly
restrained compassion in McCall's eyes, fighting a father-figure
compulsion to do what he must, while Alina's is a muted plea for
deliverance. This scene takes place in a diner they frequent in Boston,
and it's the first of two powerful moments in the film. What follows is
the film's first action sequence in a Tarantino-styled dialogue first,
and blood splatter later, McCall dispatches Alina's Russian pimp and
his goons. When news reaches Moscow, mob kingpin Pushkin sends Teddy
(Marton Csokas), to clean up the mess. Covered with satanic tattoos,
Teddy is anything but the moniker he goes by and with half the Boston
PD on his payroll, it's just a matter of when and where McCall is
eliminated. Or so they think.Having previously scripted The Expendables 2, Richard Wenk's story here
is nothing new when considering McCall's proverbial 'set of skills', a
comparison if you must, to certain characters Liam Neeson has played.
On the other hand, there is a mechanism in place, partly due to the
aforementioned OCD, allowing McCall a brief study of the situation
before striking with lethal accuracy. While that sounds like a
knock-off version of combat tactics employed by Guy Ritchie's titular
hero in Sherlock Homes (2009), the payoff is watching McCall take out
bad guys with improvised weaponry. It gets a bit hokey towards the end,
with McCall using all manner of booby traps to slice, dice and blow up
Teddy's dumber-by-the-minute henchmen. Having said that, it is still
rewarding to watch Washington demolish enemy after enemy and this is
largely due to Csokas' terrific portrayal of Teddy's loathsome nature.
To that effect, the best scenes in the film are when Teddy and McCall
are face-to-face and denting each other's armour with nothing but well
written dialogues. One such scene is a powerful dinner table
battering-of-wits, a taut reimagining of that iconic scene in Heat
(1995).While humour and drama throw some light on Boston's mob controlled
dirty cops, McCall's relationships with his colleagues, and even a
short segment that suggests his origins as a trained killer, The
Equalizer really shines with Fuqua's deft handling of action scenes.
But topping it off is Washington in a vigilante role that is the best
we've seen in years. Fans of Man on Fire (Washington opposite Dakota
Fanning) and Léon: The Professional (Jean Reno opposite Natalie
Portman), both films about male heroism influenced by female protégés,
are in for a visual treat. Heck, who needs improbable superheroes when
you have an average Joe with extraordinary capabilities and all without
hiding behind a mask or costume? Although compelled to use the N-word,
I'll just say – Ma man Denzel. . .doesn't disappoint and neither does
The Equalizer.
