8
Captain Fantastic is a very amusing look at trying to find a balance between two different worlds.

Mortensen plays Ben, A father of six children, whose wife suffers from 

mental illness and Ben thought it would be good for her and the kids to 

live out in the wild, living off the land and tossing the rules of our 

society out the window. However, Ben's wife did not get better.



Captain Fantastic mostly focuses on the children. On a road trip 

towards their mother's funeral, they get a culture clash with the rest 

of the world. It lays out all the info for the question of weather 

these kids were raised right or raise wrong.



Captain Fantastic starts off showing you the children's lifestyle, were 

organic met growing and hunting your own food and made their own 

clothes and were home schooled.



Then they come into society where everyone looks at them as if they are 

freaks, but why is it weird that these kids don't know the name brand 

of sneakers? The look on their faces when they experienced Street 

Fighter for the first time makes sense when your not use to such 

things. Besides, it's a shame on our Society that an 8 year old can 

comprehend the Bill of Rights better than those older than her.



Watching these kids tackle the woods than watching them adapt to 

society was a bit of an eye opener. Some times the movie punches you in 

the gut, like when the talk about religious "organizations" and how Fat 

everyone in the city seems to be, but the blow is softer cause it's 

coming from children.



But Captain Fantastic is not all one sided, detailing some down 

qualities of living in the wild , like the eldest son's overzealous 

first encounter with the opposite sex or the fact that It was the 

parents choice to live out in the woods, not the child's.



Mortensen played the part well of a man who sometimes got too clouded 

by his beliefs of doing the right thing by his family and who sometimes 

went to far to prove a point.



Also like Frank Langella's character, the father who just lost his 

daughter and blames his son-in-law. It's was good cause you really know 

people like the character he plays.



Steve Zahn and Kathryn Hahn were also terrific in the movie playing yin 

to Ben's yang, as parents who don't fully see eye to eye with what he's 

doing.



Overall, everyone has a upbringing different from everyone else and 

Captain Fantastic takes that statement to a different level, but at 

it's core, he's just a parent who loves his children and is trying to 

do the best he can in a difficult time. This theme radiates from 

Mortensen and the rest of the cast, which is what makes it so 

Fantastic.
