8
A Fantastic, Exciting Adventure

While I enjoyed the first Hobbit film, it did feel like it left a bit
to be desired. This was no surprise, as everything that I loved about
the book was in the second half. I knew that I would be waiting for all
the good stuff with the second and third films. And sure enough, the
second film delivers where the first film didn't quite excite as much
as I had wanted. While it isn't perfect and does unnecessarily deviate
a bit, this is easily better than the first film, giving us a bigger,
bolder adventure and a more interesting Bilbo Baggins this time around.Before I get to the good stuff, let me get my complaints out of the
way. My biggest complaint are the unnecessary plot threads. There seems
to be a big need for this series of films to tie into LotR, and I
really don't understand why. A great deal of time is taken in this film
to introduce us to things we already know the outcome of. We're, at
points, taken away from the dwarfs and Bilbo to follow Gandalf as he
goes off on his own adventure to uncover the growing evil of Sauron and
his armies. Like the first film, it's completely unnecessary, but
unlike that film, it's jarring. We're ripped from a fantastic adventure
to a story that we don't really need to know and has no real relation
to the dwarfs and their adventure. In fact, any time we're taken out of
the company of the dwarfs, it almost feels cheap. The almost romance
between Evangeline Lily's elf and the dwarf Kili feels something of the
same, the whole lot of these stories coming off as filler in an effort
to make time for three movies instead of just two. It feels like a
stretch and brings a screeching halt to the momentum of the main story.That said, the rest of the film is an excellent and expertly crafted
adaptation. There is a definite sense of character growth, especially
from Bilbo, who seems to struggle with the power of the ring and it's
greed. We already know where this goes, but it is none the less
fascinating considering who he was when we first met him. The dwarfs
seem to almost take a back seat here. They are less prominent, with the
exception of Thorin and Balin, who take front and center. That isn't to
say they aren't entertaining, as they usually are every time they are
on screen. Thorin is the real standout though, as he goes through
similar changes as Bilbo, which lends them an interesting comparison in
their mutual struggles. The actors are all excellent once again in
their respective roles, with Freeman once again being the standout.
Evangeline Lily is also a pleasant surprise in an original role as an
elf created for the film. She adds a much needed feminine touch to an
otherwise predominantly male cast. She proves herself to be a fine
silver screen presence and hopefully this will net her some further
film roles.While the film does an excellent job of not simply being the middle
film, something The Two Towers struggled with in the LotR trilogy, it
is the action, set pieces, and effects which are the true stars. This
may not be a LotR movie, but it's close. We almost immediately start
out with a bang and it rarely lets up. Of course, much of what happens
early on, as exciting as it may be, pales in comparison to it's
explosive and lengthy climax. Smaug is quite possibly the best creation
of any of the film, Hobbit or LotR. He is as awesome as you could have
hoped for and Benedict Cumberbatch is excellent in the role. While
effects have been applied to his voice to give it more boom, he does a
fantastic job as the sneering, wise, and boastful dragon. Watching and
listening to him face off against Bilbo is a delightful treat, and that
is before we get to any fire breathing and chasing. What follows is a
lengthy conclusion to the film that will excite and delight all. I have
no qualms in saying that Smaug makes the entire film worth the
admission of price. But don't go in expecting a solid conclusion. This
is, after all, the second of a trilogy, so you can surely expect the
film to leave you salivating for the next one.While this new Hobbit film still doesn't reach LotR heights, it is
superior to the previous film, especially when it comes to being an
enjoyable adventure. It feels like it matters to the trilogy and
delivers on being an epic. And I simply can't rave enough about Smaug.
If you didn't enjoy the first film, you may find yourself feeling about
the same here. But at least this one has a cool dragon.
