8
I'll Always Believe in You, Peter Pan!

I admit, Peter Pan is one of those stories that just draws the child in
me to it. Who doesn't want to learn to fly, be friends with pixies, or
never grow up and have all the anxieties of life? And whenever a new
Peter Pan story is made into a film, I generally wind up seeing it. At
last count I've seen Disney's animated Peter Pan and Return to
Neverland, Mary Martin's Peter Pan, Cathy Rigby as Peter Pan, Hook,
Peter Pan (2003), Peter Pan Live!, and now Pan and read Peter Pan in
Kensington Gardens, Peter Pan and Wendy, Peter Pan in Scarlet, and
Capt. Hook. So you might say I am an old hand at this...Pan is a lively, different take on the tradition of Peter Pan...not
quite as bizarre or hilarious as Hook and not as accurate to the
original story as Peter Pan from '03. But what I know from having read
about Mr. Barrie's life was that he edited Peter Pan numerous times
when it was on stage and was always looking for a way to liven things
up...so this Pan keeps with that tradition! It is a fun, rollicking
adventure about a boy with a destiny, a savvy yet heartfelt pirate
tag-a-long, and a warrior-princess...all battling the despotic Captain
Blackbeard.SPOILERS AFTER THIS: There is something absolutely charming about this
version of Hook who is given the full emotional treatment of a person
with an actual past, not just a guy missing a hand who wants revenge.
Mr. Hedlund was the ideal casting choice because he can be gruff and
still very likable.And for all the complaints about Tiger Lily NOT being cast as Native
America, might I suggest an alternative view for this? There is no way
to give viewers a 100% authentic, First-Nations approved version of
Tiger Lily. Why? Because the way Barrie wrote them was racist and you
cannot escape from it...ever. But if you decide to make them
Native-Neverlanders instead you remove what could be insulting by
making them a new group of people that has no connections on earth.
Instead, the Native-Neverlanders were a beautiful, eclectic tribe of
people living in the trees like wood-elves (!) in bright tents and
clothing, with skilled warriors and artisans. There was never a moment
of disrespect to other cultures that I found and it this movie set
apart from the others. Rooney Mara was a solid choice for Tiger Lily,
enjoyable, spunky and given some really cool fighting scenes.Blackbeard is a great villain with a purpose and Hugh Jackman was
remarkable in the role, per the usual. His clothing and hair was
flamboyant but not out of place in a world that is rather flamboyant
and imaginative...and yes, he can be cruel and vicious. This is not a
film for little wee-uns, as Blackbeard does kill children (implied, no
impact seen).And Peter Pan himself is a pretty brilliant marvel. Zachary is a
newcomer but a fine young actor, quite likable and holds an impressive
array of emotions. Peter is his usual self, albeit in a slightly
different story, marked by determination and ability to lead.
Unfortunately, this story did kill a little of the child-like wonder
and glee Peter usually has but then...so did the film Hook.I am giving it 8 out of 10 stars because the casting is very solid,
character development is good, setting is spectacular, and plot is
mostly sound. The only things I didn't like were the sorta Oliver Twist
beginning (with mean nuns, which has been done to death, folks) and the
plot hole of what happens to all those men and boys in the mine? Did
Peter just leave them there or did he return them home? You decide.But I recommend it wholeheartedly, just beware that it can be a bit
scary and some smaller children may not do so well. On the scale of
favorite Peter Pan films, it ranks just behind Cathy Rigby as Peter Pan
and Hook, which isn't bad at all! It keeps Barrie's fun story alive for
a new generation...until the next one is made! See you at the movies!
