10
Demolition: The Blissful Beauty of Destruction

"Together, they would watch everything that was so carefully planned
collapse, and they would smile at the beauty of destruction." Markus
Zusak, The Book ThiefSometimes all you need is one piece to fall off the seemingly perfect
construct you've built around yourself. Only then, you'll realize
what's been long buried beneath and almost forgotten. That one piece
was the tragic death of Davis' wife in a car accident in the revelatory
opening sequence of Demolition.Davis (Jake Gyllenhaal) is a young banker who is married to Julia, his
boss's daughter, and, from an outsider's point of view, seems to have
his life all figured out. Davis' subsequent emotional numbness and
irrational behavior become a source of persistent annoyance to everyone
around him, leading him to realize his own metaphorical death which is
brought about by Julia's tragic, yet necessary, death – it is the one
piece that had to come apart so that Davis would notice the malfunction
of his ostensibly ideal life, just like the leaking fridge in his
kitchen. And this is when he decides to take everything in his life
apart to get to the bottom of who he really is and how he really feels.
On his journey of self- exploration, Davis crosses paths with Karen
(Naomi Watts), a customer service representative of a small vending
machines company, and her rebellious 15-year-old son, Chris (Judah
Lewis).I don't think I ever wanted this movie to end. I've watched it twice so
far and I'm still overwhelmed by the emotional genius of both screen
writer Bryan Sipe and director Jean-Marc Vallée (Dallas Buyers Club,
Wild). Following Davis' course of thinking, I've been trying to take
things apart in this movie to understand why I loved it so much and why
I end up crying like babies every time, but I just can't put my hand on
one thing – it's simply everything. Not a single scene nor a single
line in Demolition felt redundant or slightly detaching; they are all
beautifully connected like notes in a musical piece, all leading up in
an emotional crescendo to an inevitable coda that lingers way after the
film ends. And despite the excessive use of montage, it all felt
natural and poetic in a way. This is one film made with passion.Peering into the nature of human relationships is extremely difficult,
not to mention trying to dismantle them. That's why Davis' fumbling
through his existential ordeal changes from irrational to funny to
understandable to incredibly relatable. We don't only take pleasure in
watching Davis taking his life apart but we envy him for this
melancholic yet euphoric realization of the truth that usually comes
after destruction, and which we all yearn for in one way or another.
Destroying entails thinking in retrospect, necessarily resulting in
painful regret but one that is usually accompanied by blissful
realization. Few are the movies that manage to go that deep into human
relationships and come back with a bittersweet sense of salvation.
Also, the unlikely relationship between Davis, Karen and her son Chris
becomes a psychological shelter for the three emotionally misled
characters where they get to nurture their empathy and readjust their
inner compasses.The chemistry between Jake Gyllenhaal and Judah Lewis is undeniable,
and is highlighted by Sipe's witty script and both actors' topnotch
performance. Gyllenhaal's growing acting skills are literally getting
out of control (and I mean it in a good way). I don't think anyone
could have portrayed Davis as harmoniously as he did, putting you in
tears while bringing a smile to your face. After Enemy, Nightcrawler,
and Southpaw, Gyllenhaal is slowly and steadily becoming one of the
smartest and most talented actors today.One more thing that makes this experience unforgettable is the music.
I've mentioned before that this is a film made with passion, and
nothing can give voice to passion as much as music does. I will not
talk about the brilliant choices of songs and the perfect song-scene
synchronization because that will only make sense when you watch the
film.Demolition will leave you miserably heavy-hearted but spiritually
elevated beyond words.I give it 10 out of 10
