9
An Intense Funny Dark Horror Movie

I wanna start by saying this is probably the only horror film I can
think of where the comedy didn't ruin the movie, but actually made it
better. Shaun of the dead is pretty good, but every other comedy/horror
movie I have seen, SUCKED. I usually say that horror and comedy should
never be put together, mostly because the mixing ruins two genres that
are mostly great on their own. But Get Out did a brilliant job mixing
comedy and horror in a way that I have never quite seen before. This movie actually both scared me and made me laugh and I didn't come
out hating the movie. It is a very different movie, also a very
political movie, at least I think so. I really thought this movie was
going to be terrible after watching the trailer, but now I am really
happy I have seen it. I am not really a horror movie fan, but the thing
I think this movie did so well was not to depend on hardcore violence,
quick camera movement, shock, effects, and nothing that make the bad
horror movies bad. I have personally seen more bad horror movies than
good, which is why I usually stay away from them. The thing I love about Get Out is that it is scary in a truly
psychological sense that not many horror movies still use. And it does
it brilliantly, one second you will be laughing, the next you will be
scared out of your mind. The way it does it is brilliant because every
bad guy is very nice, good looking, political correct, and that makes
it even more creepy. I am so grateful I can finally point to a good
modern day horror movie. But again, this movie was great, and I think
it sends a message that most do not want to hear, but people need to
hear. The racists there are most of now doesn't go around beating up
black people or anything of the kind, they mostly do not know they are
racist. People who are racist but knows it is wrong, so every time
there is a black joke he will go insane just to prove he is not racist,
people who wouldn't care if they voted for Barack Obama or Ben Carson
as long as they can say they voted for a black person. People who
constantly have to remind themselves they are not racist because they
voted for Obama, or they are not homophobic because they have a gay
friend. The racists that make sure no one speaks in a way that they
find uncomfortable, the racist that will say you are racist if you say
Mexican instead of Latino American. The racist that will say it is
wrong to have your kid dress up as an Indian for Halloween. That is the message I think this movie is trying to Get Out. Just so
you know this is just my opinion of what the movie is saying. If you
really want to know it's message, you will just have to watch the
movie, to get your own opinion. Anyway this is definitely one of 2017
best movies, and I would recommend to everyone. I hope you found this
review helpful and I hope you will love the movie as much as I do.
