9
Virtual Joys

Wreck-It Ralph imagines a world where arcade game characters have their
own lives. It's like a video game version of Toy Story and Who Framed
Roger Rabbit, but this one is much more appealing to the viewers. As
expected, it has an endless amount of enjoyment, a big scale of
adventure, and really fun characters. The filmmakers poured their love
of these games to the film thus made this a wonderful nostalgic
delight.The story doesn't sound quite fresh at some point, especially for an
animated film, but the main attraction here is the theme. It sets in a
magnificent arcade world. It's fun when it captures the prominent video
game mannerism like the freezy movements in retro games, an out of
control game character walking against the wall in 3D games, and the
glitching. It's easy to know what the central games are inspired from.
Many would root for the cameos of iconic game characters and each of
their appearance are splendid. The movie is filled with action set
pieces that are undeniably exciting. By its grand scale and references,
the experience is gloriously extraordinary.Another charms of the film is the characters. We don't usually see
films with well developed characters in blockbusters these days but
this one has plenty of it. They all have their own pathos, but in a
comical way. And the voice performances were great. John C. Reily gives
Ralph an acceptably nice personality. Sarah Silverman makes Vanellope
adorable enough. Jack McBrayer is quite charming as the always positive
Fix-It Felix Jr. and Alan Tudyk is delightful as the goofy King Candy.The animation is wonderful. Like what I said, they really capture the
elements of every video game. The game "Sugar Rush" has the most
colorful(and product placed) visuals of the film. The rest is
thoroughly inspired. 3D is usually unnecessary but here is just fine.
It's kind of worth it by its large adventures. There is no scene after
the credits but it's better to stay during it to listen to the theme
songs of "Sugar Rush" and "Fix-It Felix Jr.".There isn't much groundbreaking about Wreck-It Ralph but what makes
this special is its tribute to the classic video games. It also serves
an over the top fun and sweetness(no Sugar Rush pun intended). It's so
fun, it's easy to ignore its little flaws. There are some things that
could have been better, but the film is already good enough. To those
who love playing video-games will enjoy this a lot more. It's just full
of life and nostalgia. Wreck-It Ralph is a great virtual ride!
