8
Just My Tempo

Greetings again from the darkness. The pursuit of greatness is not
always pretty. No matter if your dream is athletics, dancing, music or
some other; you can be sure hard work and sacrifice will be part of
your routine. You will likely have a mentor, teacher or coach whose job
is to cultivate your skills while pushing you to new limits. This film
questions whether the best approach is intimidation or society's
current preferred method of nurturing.Miles Teller plays Andrew, a first year student at an elite Manhattan
music conservatory. Andrew dreams of being a great jazz drummer in the
vein of Buddy Rich. When offered a rare shot at the top ensemble,
Andrew quickly discovers the conductor is a breed unlike anything he
has ever encountered. The best movie comparison I can offer for JK
Simmons' portrayal of Terence Fletcher is R Lee Ermey's Drill
Instructor in Full Metal Jacket. This is no Mr Holland's Opus. Fletcher
bullies, intimidates, humiliates and uses every imaginable form of
verbal abuse to push his musicians, and especially young Andrew, to
reach for greater heights.Andrew and Fletcher go head to head through the entire movie, with
Fletcher's mental torment turning this into a psychological thriller
... albeit with tremendous music. We witness Andrew shut out all pieces
of a personal life, and even take on some of Fletcher's less desirable
traits. Andrew's diner break-up with his girlfriend (Melissa Benoist)
is much shorter, but just as cold as the infamous opening scene in The
Social Network. At a small dinner party, Andrew loses some of the
sweetness he inherited from his dad (Paul Reiser), and unloads some
Fletcherisms on some unsuspecting family friends.Writer/Director Damien Chazelle has turned his Sundance award-winning
short film into a fascinatingly brutal message movie that begs for
discussion and debate. The open-ended approach is brilliant, though I
found myself initially upset at the missing clean wrap that Hollywood
so often provides. What price greatness? Is comeuppance a reward? Are
mentors cruel to be kind? For the past few years, I have been
proclaiming that Miles Teller (The Spectacular Now) is the next John
Cusack. Perhaps that bar is too low. Teller just gets better with each
film. His relentless energy draws us in, and we find ourselves in his
corner ... even though this time, he's not the greatest guy himself.
Still, as strong as Teller is, the film is owned by JK Simmons. Most
think of him as the dad in Juno, or the ever-present insurance
spokesman on TV, but he previously flashed his bad side as the white
supremacist in "Oz". Even that, doesn't prepare us for Simmons'
powerhouse performance ... just enough humanity to heighten his
psychological torturing of musicians.You should see this one for Simmons' performance. Or see it for the up
and coming Teller. Enjoy the terrific music, especially Duke
Ellington's "Caravan". See it for the talking points about teachers,
society and personal greatness. See it for any or all these reasons -
just don't tell director Damien Chazelle "good job".
