1
The Dark Knight doesn't Rise, he Sinks Like A Stone.

I'm starting to suspect there's some mass cultural delusion effect at
work here, and in a few decades time people will come to realise that
it is, in fact, just about as bad as a film can be and is easily the
weakest of Nolan's Batman trilogy. Let's explore why.1. Why is Marion Cotillard in this film? This is the wrong role for
her. Her death sequence was a masterclass in bad acting. And if you
didn't see the obvious twist that she was Talia after a whole movie of
hanging around conspicuously it's time for a sight test.2. That blonde Selina was hanging around with really heavily implied
Catwoman was a lesbian, or bisexual if you count her shoehorned-in
fleeting kisses with Bruce. Why?3. The movie is filled with pointless characters. "Here's a new major
or minor character, we'll stop the plot dead in it's tracks while they
give dull exposition about their past and their motivations". This
happened at least half a dozen times. In the case of Bane it would have
been justified... if they had told his backstory all at once, not
tediously dragged it out.4. Why did a nuclear reactor core contain a red countdown clock? Did
Lucius Fox know that it would be hijacked, and made life easier for the
hijackers by letting them know when it would explode? More irritating
is how characters in the film keep mentioning there's a bomb and saying
how many days/hours remain, like they have forgotten.5. There is no tangible sense of time, of scale, or of anything at
stake. I was waiting for the movie to establish a sense of what really
mattered. Would it create a real feeling of being in Gotham? It never
did: it became more convoluted and confusing instead. I never got the
feeling there were millions of lives at stake or that there was
anything worth caring about.6. The movie takes itself too seriously. It was a gloomy dirge of
self-pity and heavy-handed, lazy commentary about current affairs, with
that stupid pounding music score pulsing along underneath ratcheting up
the tension because the writing couldn't.7. Robin was written in so he could take on the mantle of Gotham's
leading superhero at the end. The other things he did were things Jim
Gordon could have done if the movie hadn't put him in a hospital bed.
Getting rid of Robin would have also dispensed with the pointless
subplot where he is trying to save a busload of orphans. I rolled my
eyes at that one.8. In other versions of Batman, Bane is huge because he's on a
supersteroid called Venom. In Rises it is never really explained,
despite the fact he was a tiny child when he escaped the well prison.
His death sequence was also terrible; the film spends so much time
building him up as some kind of badass Batman can't beat, then he dies
with relative ease.9. The sound mixing was terrible. Even characters that didn't have a
stupid mask with batteries taped on the front (Bane) were, at times,
very hard to hear. Considering how many millions were spent it really
should have had reference quality surround sound audio.10. Chris Nolan is not good at directing this type of picture. In all
of the Nolan Batman films (including Batman Begins, which I like
despite this problem) he doesn't seem to know how to direct scenes,
whether they are action, quiet drama or a mix of both. Camera placement
is all wrong. The "Bane and Batman slug it out on a rusty walkway"
scene feels claustrophobic despite the fact it's supposed to be some
kind of huge fighting pit. It might as well be taking place inside a
vacuum.11. Jim Gordon in his infinite wisdom stops what he thinks is the bomb
truck with... a regular passenger coach, which would have broken apart
under the weight.12. Gary Oldman cannot hold his American accent for even one scene.13. Batman is a plot device, not a character. It used to be something
special when the cape and cowl were on. But the way Nolan has shot
Batman here never made me feel he was the last bastion of justice in a
corrupt city, powerful enough to keep criminals at bay with both his
mind and his fists. He's one-dimensional and boring.14. Despite the fact Alfred mentions how underprepared Bruce his,
despite the fact Bruce's doctor tells him he has no knees, all he does
is strap a bionic movement device to one of his legs and is suddenly
sprightly enough to be Batman again.15. Plenty of other problems the internet already covered.CONCLUSIONThere's no weight or levity to The Dark Knight Rises because characters
and objects jump to where the poorly-constructed plot requires them to
be, as if they were beamed there by a Star Trek transporter. The
balance of the real and the exaggerated was just right in Batman Begins
but in this one it bounces from set piece to boring drama scene and
back again with no sense of cohesion, logic or grace. It's a complete
mess.On the other hand, maybe it is a great movie and I just can't see it.
Or maybe when the cultural zeitgeist changes direction everyone not so
close to it and not hyped up to breaking point will see it's not all
that. Time will tell.SUMMARY1. It's everything that was bad about The Dark Knight ramped right up.2. It's everything that was good about Batman Begins removed or
neutered.3. It wastes good actors and a pretty large budget.4. It is joyless and illogical.5. It is one of the worst films I have ever seen.But it's not all bad: at least it wasn't available in 3D!
