10
Tower of Power

I've been a Stephen King fan since my sister introduced me to his
writing more years ago than I care to admit. Ultimately, I loved the
Dark Tower series. To say I had an initial bad reaction to the series
ending (a twenty minute profanity laden tear) is something of an
understatement. While some of the films based on King's work haven't
lived up to their potential, I had high hopes that this one wouldn't
fall into that category. Sai, thanks.Blessedly, the folks behind The Dark Tower haven't not forgotten the
faces of their fathers and have delivered a spectacular film version of
the novel. Breaking my movie curse and reigning supreme in the process! Not surprisingly the film is quite different from the book. However, it
perfectly captures the essence/spirit of the story, characters, and
themes without missing a beat, in an expertly pared down amalgamated
version of the original source material. Moreover, if you've never read
the book(s), don't worry. You won't be lost, all the pertinent points
are hit and you will enjoy the story. If you have read the book(s)
and/or are familiar with King's other works, bonus!! You won't be
disappointed and there's the added enjoyment of the film being
chock-full of Easter eggs as a homage/reward to the Constant Reader.The casting is perfect. Idris Elba as The Gunslinger and Mathew
McConaughey as The Man In Black meet and exceed expectations in their
respective portrayals. A pure delight to watch these two in this one.
Going in my only worry was for the character of Jake Chambers, played
by Tom Taylor. I'm unfamiliar with Taylor's work, but this kid
delivers, big league. The writing is A-rated. As is the editing, special effects, and
cinematography. While the storyline is dark as most apocalyptic tales
are, it's never brooding or depressing. It also contains a good amount
of laugh out loud humor to keep things from becoming morose. I found
this action packed film thoroughly enjoyable, entertaining, and
thrilling from beginning to end. At a mere 94 minutes running time, I
never felt rushed or cheated. In fact, I appreciate them not padding
the film out and dragging it down as a result.No, The Dark Tower isn't a direct adaptation of the book(s), get over
it. However, I don't feel it suffers as its own film as a result. I also love the fact the way things ended, it can be a standalone, one
and done film, or we can delve back into the world of The Gunslinger.
After all, there are other worlds than these. I for one am hoping for
the latter. In the interim, I look forward to adding The Dark Tower to
my film collection and many repeated viewings.For your father's sake, cry off and see this in the theater. It's a 10
from me.
