7
Very flawed heroes.

'BYZANTIUM': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five) Another vampire tale from director Neil Jordan (who also directed the
critically acclaimed 1994 film adaptation of Anne Rice's popular book
'INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE: THE VAMPIRE CHRONICLES'). This movie is
based on the play by Moira Buffini (she also wrote the screenplay) and
tells the story of a mother and daughter vampire duo who have been on
the run for 200 years. It stars Gemma Arterton and Saoirse Ronan as the
mother and daughter vampires and co-stars Sam Riley, Johnny Lee Miller,
Caleb Landry Jones and Daniel Mays. It's a pretty standard vampire film
with some nice directing and decent acting.Arterton plays Clara and Ronan plays her daughter Elanor (even though
she's only eight years younger than Arterton). They've remained the
same age for 200 years (when they became vampires, that can live in the
sun) and need human blood to survive. They're constantly on the run
from other vampires (as they've broken their 'brotherhood's laws).
Clara has now befriended the shy Noel (Mays) and is running a brothel
out of his recently inherited rundown coastal hotel (the Byzantium).
Elanor has fallen for a young waiter named Frank (Jones) and has begun
exposing her and her mother's secrets to him, through (what he thinks)
is a beautiful fictional story.The movie looks good and Arterton (like always) is gorgeous in it. She
makes a great femme fatale vampire and Ronan is decently cast as her
sheltered daughter. Jordan's directing is fitting and the story is
interesting, if you like vampire movies (although I didn't like it that
these vampires can survive in the sun). It's nice to see a vampire
movie about a mother and daughter for a change and the romance and male
characters are pretty minimal. It's also interesting to see sympathetic
vampires, in a film, that still kill and prey on innocent people. Very
flawed heroes to say the least. It's nowhere near as classic as
Jordan's 'INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE' but it's still a decent vampire
flick.Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ayoPMqb3Nl8
