10
Excellent character study

One of my favorite films to date. (Top 5)One of my favorite actors and musicians are all a part of this film.
Everything from the soundtrack, the directing, the acting, the writing,
the humour and the drama are all incredibly well done. Filth is an
Scottish crime/drama directed by Jon S. Baird and is written by Irvine
Welsh who also wrote Trainspotting (the books, not the films). James
McAvoy is in this film and he does an amazing job at portraying a
deeply scarred man who seems to be in his own delusion and seems to be
under the assumption that he is in control but in reality, he is out of
control and is ultimately helpless and afraid. It is a ballsy, edgy and
vulgar film depicting this mans life amongst the people he seems to
look down upon as well as the demons in his head. Drugs, Sex, Gritty
realism as well as quick emotional turn 'rounds are all part of this
film. I understand film critics will always have a unique opinion about a
film and will always have a reason for that opinion, but I just cannot
seem to understand why people cannot see this movie as its own unique
self and not another Irvin Welsh adaptation as everyone keeps on
bringing up Trainspotting which is not what this movie is about. I
understand it is difficult not bringing up Trainspotting as a reference
point but for the actual critique, it just is not needed (and it does
not deserve 1 star). Somehow, Filth made me like a drug-addicted, delusional misogynistic
asshole who takes advantage of everybody, somehow it turned all the
negatives on their head and made me feel sorry for someone so evil and
mean-spirited. This films core is about self acceptance and trying to
come to terms with your reality, no matter how difficult and
heart-wrenching it is. We are told to see this main character as a top
dog, a leader and a controller of others as well as a man who can get
anything done and can get laid whenever he pleases. From the start we
are introduced to Bruce as someone that should be respected which
slowly starts to fade away as he becomes someone who needs to be
respected and wants help as well as a meaning in his life, and when he
slowly realizes he has nothing left, all is lost. We are falsely led into this mans delusion under false belief that it
is his reality but really is his fantasy. He is officially a detective
who is trying to get up the career ladder and is trying to get a
promotion from his boss by winning this huge case that everyone seems
to also want. We seem him take advantage of everyone he has to get
across, even going as far as ruining his friends life from the inside
out. He is horribly dysfunctional as we see him make questionable
choices throughout the film as well as question his own sanity while
transporting in and out of his fantasy. We start to realize that his
family has probably left him due to the fact that we never see his
family in the film until the very end and we are shown his crumble as a
human being. James McAvoy's acting is spectacular and continuously amazes me, he
reaches such emotional depth in this film, he has to switch from afraid
to aggressive to sad to in control all at once and it just shocks me
how he had so much control over his emotions. His character, Bruce
Robertson is damaged and is despicable on so many levels but manages to
win me over, he can't even be called a protagonist but a likable
antagonist because there is very little to like about him except for
his desire to prove himself to his family as well as prove his worth to
himself. He slowly starts to see the truth and starts to recognize that
everything he thought was truth is actually not truth but his ideal
life. The ending is a perfect way to close everything as it feels like
he finally came to terms with his life even though it is extremely
bitter sweet. From the very beginning to the very end we understand
this character is not supposed to be likable but we seem to find
elements that are likable through the fantastic directing and
screenplay as there is a recurring character that brings out a softer
side to Bruce in the film as well as the drugs that takes us into the
deep, dark parts of Bruce's mind that hide the truth.This film is a definite must watch and I thoroughly enjoyed watching
this character come to terms with himself as well as grow and become a
better person along the way.
