10
Everyone seems to be missing the point

If your willing to jump on the bandwagon and avoid this movie just
because a couple of thin skinned reviewers are complaining about all
the blood and all the "n-words", then you might as well just shovel
your money into Disney's pockets and see star wars because that's the
movie for you. This is the first real piece of cinema that has come to
the theaters this year; with all the audacity, the balls, and the
fearless will to show anything on screen that real filmmakers are brave
enough to commit themselves to. If all these negative reviewers would
just look past the blood and the guts, they would find a truly
masterful piece of cinematic art that reflects both the expertise and
effort that went into making it. The storyline is a simple one, but
it's told in a complex, interesting, and relatively unique way that is
guaranteed to keep your eyes glued to the screen throughout the entire
3 hour run time of the movie. Tarantino's direction is unparalleled as
usual, and the performance of the entire cast combined with the
wonderful cinematography and deeply engaging dialogue make for a
remarkably fun time at the theater, if your willing to sit through a
lot of grisly violence and mean spirited subject matter. And although
many people are complaining about the heavy political undertones of the
film's storyline, to me that is one of the main components of this film
that stands out the most. The plot of this film serves not only as a
compelling metaphor for the racial tension amongst the American people
immediately following the civil war, but actually manages to outline
the visceral anger and unpredictability of the racial tension that the
American people are facing today within society. In a world hell bent
on purporting sensitivity and being politically correct, it's nice to
see a movie that's willing to raise a middle finger to that social
stigma so as to hold a mirror to the racial confrontations that are
still plaguing the American people to this very day. Obviously this
film is undoubtedly the most sick, twisted, and violent of Tarantino's
filmography, and I'm willing to admit that it's not for everybody, but
for those of you willing to toughen up, keep your trigger happy
insecurities in check, and enjoy a mean, gritty, and badass film that
offers no apologies for what it does best I highly recommend this film.
And for those of you who are willing to let Tarantino's comments about
the police force get in the way of your enjoyment of this film, like I
said; Disney is more than willing to take your hard earned money.
