8
The Most Interesting Story About Concrete Ever

This is the age of the blockbusters. Huge bombastic films with
expensive effects and elaborate set pieces where the fate of the world
is in peril from the forces of evil, and only a small band of heroes
can save us from certain doom.These are tales with global scale and universal peril. The terrorists
must not get the nukes. The super villain must not open the wormhole.
The mad scientist must not complete his Super Death Ray.These are not easy stories to tell. All of the pieces must fit
together, the effects must be seamless, the cinematography dynamic.
Hundreds, sometimes thousands of people work together, and many
millions of dollars are spent to create a single work of art. And still
the result can be a flawed and disjointed mess.But what happens when you take all of that away? What happens when you
throw out the beautiful sets, do away with the special effects, and
fire your superheroes?What you have left is a movie like Locke. One man, in one location,
dealing with a crisis so personal that the motorists he passes on the
freeway as he drives couldn't care less whether he succeeds or fails.And telling that kind of story is harder still.Here, there is no spectacle to distract us, no fight scene for us to
cheer for; all we have left is drama."Drama" is a word that's been simplified and bastardized to merely mean
"exciting", but there is so much more to it than that. Drama is that
chemical reaction that happens in a story when when a character's
greatest inner strength is drawn into conflict.That scene in the last season of Breaking Bad when Walt and Hank
finally faced off in Hank's garage? That was drama. No one was shot. No
dinosaurs ate anyone. Cthulhu did not awake from his slumber. Instead
it was about one man's purpose being stymied by another. Hank's
indomitable will to bring his brother-in-law to justice coming into
conflict with Walt's threat to bring him down with him if he falls.If the character's principles are weak, or if the conflict does not
clash with those principles convincingly, the drama is lost.Locke may be the most dramatic film I've ever seen. The titular
character is unbending in his principles, determined to live up to the
ideal he has made for himself.And as the story progresses, the challenges his he faces to keep that
ideal intact grow exponentially. First his livelihood, then his family,
and finally the work that he loves are all brought into peril by his
decision to do what he believes is right and honorable, to right the
wrongs he has done, to be the man that his father never was.Ivan Locke is a bird in a hurricane, first buffeted, then grounded, but
never deterred from his course by one inch.This is Tom Hardy at his finest, not strutting about as a super villain
or raging through the post-apocalyptic wasteland, but breathing life
into one extraordinary character.Locke isn't just determined. He's broken. He's spent his life resenting
his father, building a shell of principles around himself in order to
avoid being like the man that failed him. He is honest, literally to a
fault, unwilling to bend the truth even to comfort the terrified mother
of his bastard child as she goes into early labor.And yet, in spite of these things, he is loved by his family and
respected by his peers. This is a man they have all come to rely on.
And when his world begins to fall apart, their worlds threaten to
crumble along with it.Doubtless this film is not for everyone. It is not particularly "fun";
it is even possible that some will find Ivan Locke's actions and
attitudes to be morally reprehensible. And maybe they aren't wrong to
think so.But for my part this is a beautiful portrait of humanity, tragically
flawed, yet incredibly strong, facing off against the everyday terrors
of life.This is a story about something more important than the fate of the
world; it is story about the fate of one man's soul.Find more of our reviews at HumanEchoes.com
