8
Great Thrill Ride

No genre has suffered from volume overload as the zombie genre. Zombie
television shows, zombie movies both theatrical and straight to video,
city zombie walks….zombies are everywhere. Because of the glut of flesh
eating walking dead, no genre has suffered so much with overkill.
Zombies themselves are not particularly interesting beasts. They don't
have any character. They just run (or slow walk) bite and run (or slow
walk) again. You won't find many reviews on the thousands of zombie
films that will go into detail about the complex layers of the zombie's
inner mind.With what seems like an endless parade of zombie films each week being
offered across various platforms it's a nice surprise when a film such
as Train to Busan offers what feels like a fresh take on an exhausted
premise.Train to Busan is a South Korean zombie film brought to us from
writer/director Sang-ho Yeon. The idea is commonplace – a zombie
apocalypse is underway – but the setting adds to the drama. The movie
takes place almost exclusively on a train where the passengers are
stuck in in a speeding bullet. And when an infected individual boards
the train, the group's only safety will be in the various train cars
free of the blood hungry hordes.The group of characters that face life and death to zombie situations
are an eclectic band of heroes and villains including a father and
daughter team, a pregnant woman and her husband, a young teenage
baseball team and various train attendants. Their survival is hanging
on the notion that if the train full of zombies can reach the Busan
station where the military is lying in wait.Although there are plenty of been there/seen that moments in Train to
Busan, the film still offers a fresh feel largely due to the
claustrophobic setting. There are some fresh ideas – such as what
happens to the zombies when the train enters into a tunnel – and these
ideas coupled with zombies that run like Olympic qualifiers and above
average special effects lead to a heart pounding rollicking good time.One could not fully review Train to Busan without discussing the
ending. Starting with an unexpected train crash the final few reels are
filled with one surprise after another. And the ending is almost
heart-wrenching in its execution.Train to Busan is a thrill ride. A thrill ride that was a rousing crowd
pleaser when it screened at the Toronto After Dark Film Festival. But
it is more than just a genre festival favorite. It is one of best
zombie films every produced and might just be one of the best movies of
any genre in 2016.
