1
Bland, Boring and Barbaric

I think Rotten Tomatoes finally got it right this time. Giving this
film less than 25% approval rating is on the mark. I wasn't a fan of
the original series, but I knew that from the trailers, I probably
would not like this film. I still gave it a shot, and boy did it fail
to deliver, miserably. This movie is essentially a Pirates of The
Caribbean movie, set in the Old West. Johnny Depp as Tonto is doing the
same old shtick he did in Pirates, Jack Sparrow basically wandering
through the desert. His attempts at humor are the same, deadpan
expressions as he wanders through overly exaggerated and unrealistic
special effects sequences. His sidekick (sorry, but that's essentially
how the power relationship is set in this film) is a scared, gun-shy
lawyer John Reid played by Armie Hammer. Throughout the movie, we are
supposed to be cheering this guy on, hoping he can avenge the death of
his brother and bring the bad guys to justice. But all he does is whine
and complain. They should have called him The Moan Ranger. Depps
performance was quite bad, and I would say, offensive to native
Americans of all nations. The way he talked, his behavior, I mean, they
tried to explain it away as him having been scarred emotionally as a
kid, but really, it sounded more like an apology for Depp's
stereotypical portrayal. There were also weird random things that left
one's head scratching, like the crazy rabbits that popped up. What the
heck? Are we to believe that this stuff was based on reality, or are
just watching the fantasy laden recollections of an aged Tonto who's
liberally adding these elements to entertain the little boy in the 1933
museum? The part about the movie that really bother me, however, was
the fact it had an overall feel that it was geared towards families,
but there were scenes of such nasty brutality and violence, it was a
really upsetting juxtaposition. Now, I'm all for gory and violent
films, I watch them all the time. But those films are rated 18A. This
one gets away with a PG or PG-13 rating, but people die horribly, and
in many cases, for no reason. I guess the fact that they don't show any
blood spurting out is why the censors and ratings board gave it a pass.
Overall this film is quite boring. I was taking power naps through many
of the slow parts. It barely picks up speed, and when it does, you
don't really care anymore. And why just have one locomotive crashing
scenes when you can have two! Yes, two train crashes in the same film,
talk about losing creativity. It felt very repetitive. None of the
supporting characters or actors stood out. And quite frankly they felt
just as annoying as The Lone Ranger himself. I think the white horse
was the most interesting character on the screen. Avoid this movie,
just rent it for $2 out of your local movie dispensing machine. Send
the studios a message, so they won't make any sequels, and they'll bury
this attempt at a franchise for good.
