10
El País de los Lobos

"Sicario" describes, with surgical precision, the fatal and bloody
desecration of Mexico as a result of its decades long cartel war. And
it does so by compressing this almost endless tragedy into a two-hour
tour-de-force of filmmaking. At its center we find idealistic FBI-Agent Kate Macer (Emily Blunt),
who is recruited to pursue a Mexican drug-baron. She is being guided by
a seemingly untouchable covert assassin named Alejandro (Benicio Del
Toro). Their investigation and methods are pushed further into unknown
territory where justice and morality are no longer valid. The end not
only justifies the means, it requires them.Denis Villeneuve's masterful piece exemplifies not only filmmaking of
the highest order, but carves out a place alongside the terrible news
reports as a deeply regretful, angry and at times almost unbearable
look into the abyss of a socio-political nightmare that is fueled by
first world-habit and global economics.Through the powerful performances by Blunt, Del Toro and Josh Brolin in
the leads as well as the excellent supporting cast, do we get a sense
of the human cost (physical and psychological), which the war on drugs
has taken.From an exploding prison population, to the destruction of Mexican
agriculture, to refugees and a cycle of violence that is beyond
barbarity; the pull that "Sicario" exerts over the viewer is undeniable
and by skirting the limits of bearable tension, without ever becoming
exploitive, it is never giving an inch concerning its subject matter.Few movies this year will have such a clear and defined structure and
unflinching approach towards a situation that appears to be beyond
salvation, while showing at the same time, that life nevertheless
continues.Taylor Sheridan's script doesn't miss a single beat and without
sidestepping anything frees itself from beaten movie conventions by
using familiar elements in an extremely skillful manner.All these themes, stories and characters are captured through the lens
of veteran Roger Deakins (Skyfall, No Country for Old Men) who lets us
always know how the micro- and macro-particles of any conflict are
inextricably intertwined. We share the vistas of beautiful sceneries
while having to witness their downfall. Whatever ideals the likes of Emiliano Zapata once had, their country
has now, as it is described in the movie, become „the land of wolves". Fifteen years ago Steven Soderbergh's „Traffic" which earned numerous
Oscars, not the least of which went to Benicio Del Toro, made a clear
statement about the various strands the drug trafficking business
touches. Now, all those years later we see in „Sicario" that even the
faintest of hopes that „Traffic" held onto have been eviscerated. What now? One might ask.
