9
The strengths and weaknesses of a rational mind

I had avoided seeing this based on the synopsis stating that the entire
movie follows a man in a car talking on his cell phone. Fortunately
that ultimately did not deter me, since I found this to be original and
engaging. The man driving the car is Ivan Locke. Locke is the foreman on a major
construction site; one of his main concerns throughout the movie is
overseeing a concrete pour for a building's foundation, a pour that he
has been working toward for months. But, for certain reasons, he will
not be onsite for the pour and will guide one of his workers to do the
job. This is just one thing that I liked--getting an in depth look at
how one man earns his living. Most of the time in movies people's
occupations are very much in the background and I am left wondering
just how people are making a go of it. Concrete is not the most
exciting material, but we come to see that Ivan is a highly skilled
professional with much responsibility--one screw up and the building
could ultimately collapse. There are many unsung heroes in the world
and people like Ivan are among them. Ivan's temperament is perfectly suited to his job. When problems come
up he calmly analyzes the situations and proceeds in a very logical
manner, even when dealing with some volatile personal interactions.
However, when Ivan tries to apply his calm rationality to personal
problems on the home front, he is less successful. He has gotten
himself into a predicament with his wife by having had a one-night
stand (his one and only) with a co-worker. He assures his wife and his
two teenage sons that he can fix things. In the heat of an argument
with his wife he tries to control the situation by asking what
reasonable next step should be taken to deal with the problem. His wife
was in no mood to calm down and consider this as an abstract problem
that could be fixed like a leaking roof.Throughout Ivan's 80+ minute journey we never see the people he talks
with: his co-worker, his boss, his wife, his two sons, the other woman,
a nurse, a doctor, and other minor characters. This sounds awfully
boring, but it is presented in a way that is definitely not boring.
This is accomplished in several ways. One way is utilizing the
expressiveness of Tom Hardy's face viewed from differing angles. The
filming is done on an actual highway and the passing traffic creates a
moving background that encompasses Ivan's car, focusing attention on
what's going on inside. Effective use is made of highway traffic on the
freeways at night, making works of art out of the traffic patterns and
lights. Exterior lights are filmed by merging them and defusing them to
create beautiful mosaics. And only when the movie was over did I
realize how much the score augmented the action. You might think that
this story would work as a stage play or a radio program, but this
movie makes the case for how superior movies can be to more restricted
media.In spite of all of the ways that supported keeping my interest, it is
ultimately Tom Hardy that carries the day. In this ultimate character
study we get a good feeling for what manner of man Ivan is--a
rationalist whose approach works well in some situations but not in
others.
