3
Bite is too dependent of its gooey gore.

Bite doesn't have any substance to it at all. It is the type of film
which advertises its over-the-top gore in order to gain cash and I'll
admit, that's the one thing this movie tried to do decently. For a low
budget film, there's a lot of effort placed in the FX and the horrors
induced by this single infected bite. It's a bit disgusting when you
first view it, but as you go on in the film, it gets overdone and
repetitive. This film tried too hard to gross the viewer out by adding
a lot of gooey substance, crunching insect noises and decaying corpses
but the thing is, nothing is done with it in order to internalize the
disturbing imagery in the viewer's mind. It just keeps on adding it,
thinking that a lot of gore will gross the viewer out but it just gets
rather gratuitous and mundane. But for a low budget film, I'll accept
it; it did its best to go beyond any horror film in our cinemas.Other than that, the rest of the film is a mess. The casting doesn't
feel right, the actors may range from okay to bad and the script is
just plain horrible. Its one of those films I believe that all the
filmmakers put their effort in the blood and the gore but ignore the
other aspects of the story. I didn't like any of the characters except
for Kirsten and it's difficult to care for the MC because albeit she's
in a horrible state she still acts grim and immoral it's hard to feel
any sense of sympathy for her. The dialogue isn't done very well to the
point that it actually feels comedic and makes you question if this was
trying to add humor to the story. This doesn't feel to have much of a plot, it just wanted to show the
effects of having this infected bite. There are other aspects that it
tried to include such as marriage issues, cheating and friendship but
it all leads to the gore. In fact, it wasn't done very well in the
first place and it feels hastily done and unnecessary to the film and
what it wanted to show audiences which is, you got it right, the gooey
gore. It relies to much on it to move the story forward when there
isn't much of a story at all.Bite feels like wasted potential. The filmmakers seemed to forget that
it was a movie and not some blood fest. Every thought was placed in the
gore that the acting, the plot and the dialogue were neglected, making
it for a mediocre and amateurish experience in the cinema. The FX is
the only thing that can be closely considered to checking this movie
out.
