1
Fantastic Yawns and Where to Find Them

Spoiler FreeJ.K. Rowling should stick to writing novels. This whole affair is
nothing but a huge money grab. This latest entry is a hollow shell
devoid of any spirit and magic of the Potter world. In short, one
fantastic yawn fest.WB and co., you must be laughing all the way to the bank. This film is
just one long 2 hour trailer. Personally, I found watching the trailer
more interesting and best of all, it was free .What made the Potter films endearing was the character development with
the magic and CG as the supporting cast. You cared about the characters
and were eager yet anxious about their journey in a magical world. It's
the other way around in Beasts. After the first half, I couldn't wait
to get away. I just hate it when I feel there was no sincere effort put
forth. Yes, the wrapping looked nice but when I opened the box, I felt
duped. As if on some amusement ride, the whole film was on rails and
along the way, there would be occasional things that would pop up. Don't be fooled by the current IMDb rating and glowing reviews both
which are no doubt artificially inflated by the legions of Potter fans
around the world. If you are a true fan then you should demand more
than an illusion of what could have been. What a complete waste of the
excellent cast who you could tell were just going through the motions
but I blame it on the poor writing. Rowling must have written the whole
thing during her 15 minute coffee break.You know there's something amiss when some of the minor characters
steal most of the spotlight or garner the most laughs- think Ice Age
and that squirrel or Despicable Me and those minions. I wonder how this
series can possibly be extended to 5 parts. The main problem is the
film is now stuck with an unlikable cast moving forward. WB and Rowling must take the fans to be fools or worse, they cast some
dark magic that blinds them to donate money to this sorry excuse for a
film. If you notice all the reviews on here, you can tell the film is
quite polarizing. Most are either 10's or 1's. The fans vs everyone
else not possessed by magic. Resist the dark magic. Times are tough and your hard earned cash better
spent elsewhere that is more deserving. Take it from me, a duped Star
Wars fan- all the red flags are there. This film, this road. I know
where it leads. And it's not to the promised land. If fantastic beasts
is what you seek then this film is not where to find them.
