5
An Oversimplified Story Leads to an Uninteresting Experience

Assassin's Creed is about a corporation who wants to unlock history's
dark secrets. They plan on achieving it by using a device called the
animus that uses the blood of the target's descendant to create a
virtual environment of the ancestor's memory. The corporation is run by
the Templars and their counterpart are called the Assassins.Having played most of the games in the video game series, I felt this
was a pretty lack luster attempt at capturing the story. Nothing is
really explained in great detail like in the games, which was
unfortunate but I can give it a pass since I shouldn't expect a movie
that is only two hours long to explain too many of the secrets. What I
can't forgive is the fact they continually addressed the apple over and
over again but never explained its full significance. The scenes that
took place in the past almost felt unnecessary as it never really
furthered the plot. All of the characters seemed pretty uninteresting... well at least
compared to their video game counterparts. I honestly can't go into
detail about them as most of their dialogue was just short sentences.
They never became good three dimensional characters but instead
cardboard cut outs of Desmond, Lucy, and Warren. The movie was just one
long trailer for the games which granted was Ubisoft's intention and
they didn't hide that fact. They pretty much even said before the movie
was released that Assassin's Creed will not be a great film. The main
goal is to get more people into the game series. That is my take away
from this movie, Assassin's Creed is so vague in the story and
characters that casual movie goers will be thinking "you know what, I
didn't learn anything from this movie but I want to. Maybe I should try
the game."If you are a fan of the series, especially if you enjoyed the events
that took place in the present. I expect you will be disappointed in
the movie. If I were to put the movie on the video game scale, I would
say it was better than Unity (by far) and would be even with Syndicate.Assassin's Creed is definitely not a movie that you need to see in the
theaters. It is more of a movie that should be rented but even that I
am unsure about as I type this.
