5
Felt like a two hour ad for Calvin Klein, but a really good one

The Counselor is the work of a fantastic director, an incredible writer
and an A+ cast but sadly it just wasn't put together well enough to be
an effective movie. It was written by the talented Cormac McCarthy,
this is his screenplay debut and his lack of experience shows, he seems
to forget that he is writing the script of a modern film and not a
novel or a play. Many of the scenes are lengthy, one on one exchanges
between two characters who speak in long extended monologues. The
dialog itself is sharp, cryptic and original, I loved hearing the
characters' philosophical banter about death, religion, sex, acceptance
etc. The simple yet tragic story however is muffled by the heavy
abstract dialog, which seems to be trying to be as far from expository
as possible. It's hard to make out the details of what's actually
happening and you constantly find yourself asking, what's the point? I
did however enjoy the writing, it was dark and beautiful and I'd love
to see McCarthy return to this style in another, perhaps more
illustrative script. The characters, who are portrayed by some of the most talented actors
out there, are all ambiguous, intellectual, bad-asses. It's fun to see
slick, eccentric characters like these, but there is no variety,
everyone is simply a beautiful and sadistic human being and it becomes
very boring to watch. Nobody is lovable, or realistic, or funny or
imperfect. It is also impossible to become invested in the characters
or the story line. Just a bunch of cool people wearing expensive
sunglasses saying and doing cool things, which is enjoyable, but not
for a solid two hours. The cinematography is exceptional, each shot has the aesthetic quality
of a well thought out photograph. There was clearly a lot of thought
put into camera angles, and where characters and objects were placed
within the frame. I was never bored admiring the exotic, luxurious
locations captured with such skill. All in all, the ambitious dialog, the beautiful cinematography and the
very capable cast, coupled with a very intense soundtrack made for a
film that successfully created a very dark, poignant tone.
Unfortunately the story was unclear, despite being very basic. The
characters did not contrast each other at all, and it was hard to give
a damn about any of it. I'd recommend it to anyone interested in film
since I did have a good time and I think there's a lot to take away
from it. As a film maker, it's interesting to see a group of people who
are all masters of their craft, sincerely try there best, and make
something that is so completely ineffective.
