9
A Fantastic Film Experience

I went into this film with high expectations. I am a horror movie
junkie, despite their general lack of critical acclaim. They should be
entertaining, even if they don't give you nightmares. After first
viewing the trailer over the summer (rolling in for The Possession), I
eagerly anticipated the January release. Seeing that Guillermo del
Toro's name was attached to the project made me even more giddy. I saw
it opening night.I was not disappointed. Not in the slightest. In fact, I was happier
with the movie than I intended to be. Believe me, that's saying
something.Not one scared by stories themselves, but solely by moments that
utilize the element of surprise, I have never jumped out of my skin
more times during a single film than I did for "Mama." That pretty much
makes it the scariest movie that I have ever seen. However, seeing as
different things scare different people, that is most likely not the
same for everyone. If you aren't a jumper, don't worry, it's still very
much worth it.The story is not your typical ghost story. It has a terrific exposition
to settle you into the film's focus. The situation is solitary enough
that you won't yourself experience it, but isn't so far-fetched that
it's unbelievable. The characters are both likable and flawed, which
gives them dimension and makes them more interesting. And the girls are
adorable, but not so cute that it detracts from the terror. As you can
see, the film is very much balanced. A good film needs that balance.As far as scares go, some are quite subtle. A few you don't
particularly realize are happening until something changes, and you're
caught off-guard. Seeing that the premise is supernatural, the idea of
an elusive antagonist is key. You can't see too much of what you're
supposed to be afraid of, and for the majority of the movie, you don't.
The cloud of mystery surrounding Mama herself is hauntingly beautiful,
and will both demonize and delight you. By the time you finish it, you
will most likely feel both happy and sad, and will not know where your
emotions should be.I highly recommend "Mama" to anyone, because it is not your
stereotypical horror movie. Its distinct lack of gore, and high level
of well-crafted story, makes for an exciting experience for both horror
lovers, and those who don't necessarily appreciate the genre. If you
get the chance to watch it, take it immediately. If you aren't given
the chance to watch it, make the chance yourself.
