10
Before Midnight is a Masterpiece (****)

Before Midnight is a different type of animal this time around. I
didn't expect the team could top an already beautiful story but what
they achieve in the newest installment is the most accurate and
authentic portrayals of love since Michel Gondry's Eternal Sunshine of
the Spotless Mind (2004). The film is an absolute marvel, showcasing
the very best dialogue and capturing the sheer essence of acting
brilliance from stars Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy. Director Richard
Linklater has also created the crowning work of his directorial career,
showing incredible restraint and focus on two characters that still
feel just as new and fresh as the day we met them. The film opens with
a near fifteen minute take that gets its hook into you and never lets
up. It's a cinematic sensation. Midnight takes place nine years after the events of Sunset. Jesse and
Céline are still together and have managed to have twin girls, Nina and
Ella, and are living in Europe. The film takes place at the tail end of
a six-week vacation in Greece where Jesse has just dropped off his
thirteen-year-old son Hank, from his previous marriage, at the airport
for his return back to Chicago. Realizing that he's missing the
formative years of Hank's teenage life, Jesse and Céline explore the
option of possibly making a move to America, leaving opportunities and
a life in Europe behind. This film is easily the best film of the franchise so far. Packing an
emotional and euphoric punch like third-installments like Toy Story 3
(2010) and The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003), films
that have a close-nit relation to their predecessors but saving all the
masterful speeches and epiphanies for the viewer to indulge in their
finales. Obviously there's no big fantasy battle or a near death
experience in an incinerator for the meaning of life to be physically
explained but in the power of words, and words alone, Before Midnight
manages to become the poster child for screen writing and brilliant
storytelling for years to come. The film doesn't take any cheap shots
with every scene constructed from real emotion and feeling incredibly
authentic and genuine. There are long takes for the viewer to be
present whether it's in an airport conversation between Jesse and Hank
or at a lunch with in the beautiful valleys of Greece or even in a
hotel room where a man and a woman share intimacy like older lovers
typically do. Ethan Hawke is an actor that never quite caught onto the awards circuit
for some odd reason. Nominated for his performance alongside Denzel
Washington in Training Day (2001), Hawke has shown tremendous range
throughout his career including missed opportunities for recognition in
Sidney Lumet's Before the Devil Knows You're Dead (2007). As Jesse this
time around, Hawke uses every ounce of magnetism, charisma, and acting
ability to bring himself to the levels of legendary actors like Daniel
Day-Lewis and Marlon Brando. He becomes a man all too familiar to the
male viewer and ignites the film into a spectacular frenzy of passion.
Hawke isn't afraid to show the inner turmoil of Jesse as the growing
cancer of guilt has come to the surface. He works moment after moment
in expressing the bewildering beauty of love at the expense of one's
own values and sacrifice. He's almost the distant, and utterly toned
down, cousin of Freddie Quell from Paul Thomas Anderson's The Master
(2012), a man so complex but inserted with terrific character beats and
an actor willing to commit entirely to the craft to portray him
flawlessly. Hawke surpasses not only his past features but the very
being of himself as an actor. It's his finest turn yet. Julie Delpy is as imaginative and magnetic as ever. She's a wonderful
presence, often very skillful example of acting on the finest level.
She executes the pure feelings of uncertainty in conjuncture with the
script which is a clear and marvelous character study on love. She's
wildly immersed into Céline, accomplishing not only a somewhat free-
spirited damaged woman but a sex appeal that triggers any person's
romantic desires. She's an effortless existence in the film, which
makes Céline not only explicitly real, but tenderly and mysteriously
loving for the viewer. It's a performance that defines her abilities as
an actress and one that will be remembered fifty years from now as we
all think back on the amazement of Julie Delpy. The film is breathtakingly accurate and precise in capturing the love
and relationship of couples, it will and should be studied by film
schools and writers for years to come. Linklater bares his soul, frame
after frame, showing confidence of his own idiosyncratic vision of this
story and being as accessible to even the youngest of people. This is
Linklater's most personal tribute to the scope of cinema and will be
his defining moment on the silver screen. The film is a must-see and is
the first masterpiece that 2013 has to offer. Before Midnight is an
instant Oscar-contender and a triumph in filmmaking. It's the go-to
film of the Tribeca Film Festival and the best picture of the year so
far.
