2
Remarkably Poor

A mother and her two kids move into the Amityville house. There's the
teen daughter, Belle, the younger daughter Juliet, the dog. The mom's
got a sister too. No men allowed pretty much. Oh, well, there's James,
but he's in a coma and kept home. It's Belle's senior year of course
and while everyone knows she lives at the Amityville house, she doesn't
now anything about it. Until a classmate tries to befriend her and
tells her all about the place but because he's male he's the butt of
jokes and treated like crap by Belle and some other girl he introduces
her to.Back at the house, the dog barks at stuff, there are shadows, there are
pesky flies and Belle starts having vivid nightmares about James. We
learn that James is in a coma because of a fight he got into defending
Belle, so she is bizarrely held responsible by the mother. There's some
type of magic circle still around some area of the front lawn somehow.Even though the doctor and most of the family think that James is in a
coma for good, the mom, who gave up religion because of this situation,
is convinced James will recover. And sure enough he does, at a rather
amazing pace. The kids suspect James might be possessed and they are
right. So somehow Belle will have to save the family before as the
fully recovered James goes homicidal.Even for a PG-13 horror movie, Amityville: The Awakening, is remarkably
dull, lame, uninteresting. It's hard to connect with the arrogant
Belle. Much of the characters' behavior is nonsensical. Worst of all,
there is zero sense of dread, nothing is really at stake here. It's 10
minutes before the movie ends that finally things become deadly. By
then of course it's way too late to get some excitement going. Not to
mention that this movie doesn't even look good. It's the kind of movie
where it's pitch black most of the time and none of the characters
think about turning a friggin' light on. Darkness alone doesn't make a
horror movie, let alone a good one. The only frightening thing about
this movie is how bad it is.
