5
Spielberg's narrow in scope hagiography can't hold a candle to 1988 Gore Vidal TV mini-series

After reading approximately 200 books on the subject, Steven
Spielberg's politically correct screenwriter, playwright Tony Kushner,
decided it would be best to focus on the last four months of President
Lincoln's presidency and the fight over the 13th Amendment, rather than
covering Lincoln's entire term in office. Apparently, Spielberg
concurred, concluding that a full-blown rendering of Lincoln's
presidency would be unwieldy and the more narrow focus would perhaps be
more dramatically effective. He could have proffered up a three and a
half hour spectacle, covering many of the significant bases of
Lincoln's political and personal life, beginning with the first
Inauguration, with full knowledge that it's been done before quite
effectively (Sam Waterston's and Mary Tyler Moore's magisterial
performances in the 1988 TV movie adaptation of 'Gore Vidal's Lincoln'
come to mind).First and foremost, what's missing here is little sense of Lincoln's
brilliance as a master politician. Since most of the movie focuses on
the machinations in the House of Representatives, focusing on the fight
over the passage of the 13th Amendment, Lincoln's input is minimal.
Tommy Lee Jones, as Radical Republican, Thaddeus Stevens, steals the
show with his brilliant performance as the fiery abolitionist
representative, who ends up giving up his quest for equal rights for
blacks in order to have slavery abolished, with the passage of the 13th
Amendment. Spielberg's opus is supposed to be based on Doris Kearns
Goodwin's book, 'Team of Rivals'--but where is the 'team'? All the fascinating characters from Lincoln's cabinet are missing
interacting with one another. In the Gore Vidal movie, both Seward and
Secretary of the Treasury Chase's political ambitions are dissected and
we actually get a sense of what their personalities are like. Here,
David Strathairn as Seward, stands around with nothing much to do as
Lincoln's adviser. Lincoln actually had to balance the conflicting
positions and personalities of the members of his cabinet. This is
effectively conveyed in both Gore Vidal's novel and TV adaptation but
not at all in Spielberg's 'Lincoln'.Wonderful peripheral figures who are an integral part of the Lincoln
story are lost due to Spielberg and Kushner's onerous decision to
ignore the earlier history. The 1988 biopic includes them: Kate Chase,
Salmon Chases' daughter, who married the "boy governor" of Rhode
Island; millionaire businessman turned General, William Sprague;
Senator Stephen Douglas, Lincoln's debate rival; Billy Herndon,
Lincoln's former law partner and McClellan, Lincoln's failed first
general, who later opposed him in the Election of 1864.Spielberg is more interested in the arcane: focusing on the minor
figures from the House of Representatives--now lost to history.
Spielberg and Kushner spend so much time on the vote in the House of
Representatives, as if this is the defining moment of Lincoln's
presidency. Perhaps from a modern perspective, yes! But I found it hard
to believe that the bells were chiming and there were was a giant
parade in pro-rebel Washington, D.C., on the day the 13th Amendment was
passed. The real cheering was on April 9, 1865, when the South
surrendered. The end of the war was of course the main concern of the
people of the time, not necessarily the abolition of slavery.Watching Spielberg's 'Lincoln', one can hardly realize that there was
indeed a dark side to our 16th President. The suspension of Habeas
Corpus and Lincoln's prosecution of political enemies without due
process of law, is an aspect of the Lincoln presidency hardly addressed
in Spielberg's flattering hagiography. Lincoln's view of
African-Americans was decidedly less progressive than Spielberg lets on
here. Even shortly before the end of the Civil War, Lincoln was still
entertaining schemes of colonization for blacks in South America and
Africa.And what of Mary Todd Lincoln? Sally Field looks a lot more like Mary
Todd than Mary Tyler Moore did in the 1988 mini-series, but Moore truly
turns the President's wife into a fully-realized character. With
Kushner's sketchy script, Field only is able to touch upon a few of the
major points of Mary Todd's life in the White House. In the Gore Vidal
movie, we actually get to see and FEEL the devastating effect son
Willie's death had upon her, as it occurs in real time. Here (like so
many of the earlier events during the Lincoln Presidency), it is only
alluded to. What's more, Mary Todd's meltdowns (probably today
characterized as 'bipolar') are only tangentially dealt with, as
opposed to the earlier TV movie, where they are an integral part of the
story.Kushner creates a non-part for the character of Elizabeth Keckley, the
African-American dressmaker turned servant to Mary Todd Lincoln. In the
1988 biopic, there's actually a relationship shown between the two
women, with Keckley morphing into a confidante, in effect acting as a
sounding board for Mary Todd Lincoln's actual views on slavery. In
Spielberg's 'Lincoln', there's an unlikely scene where Keckley
confronts Lincoln on the front porch of the White House, musing about
the future fate of African Americans in the U.S.Daniel Day Lewis is as good as Sam Waterston but unfortunately he just
doesn't have a good script to work with. Probably the best scene in the
film is the confrontation between Lincoln and Thaddeus Stevens in the
White House pantry. But because none of the other 'team of rivals' is
developed, Lincoln has hardly anyone to play off of here. Spielberg's
attempt to examine Lincoln's personal life also falls flat. The
melodramatic scene where he slaps son Robert, feels completely out of
character! Before you praise Spielberg's 'Lincoln' to the hilt, go out and
purchase Gore Vidal's Lincoln. It's only $4.89 at deepdiscountdvd.com
and Sam Waterston is simply excellent as the politician and the man,
warts and all! As usual, Spielberg's production values far outshine the
low budget efforts on television. Ultimately, one should expect more
from the famed director instead of his narrow focus on such an iconic
figure.
