6
The Mixture Between Us

The mighty majestic mountains that line the world. These monolithic
displays of nature are icons for so many forms of expression such as
poetry, video game stages, and yes even movies. Such symbolism is
perfect to craft such an obstruction for heroes to face, all while
teaching valuable lessons. And thus leads me to my next review, on a
movie that centers on the immobile giants that watch over the world.
The Mountain Between Us is the name of the film and its trailers have
certainly stirred up a storm in the world of reviews. Robbie K here
hoping to guide you through the mess to help guide your viewing
pleasures. LIKES:The acting: Like the mountains they are stuck in, the lead actors in
this movie are giants themselves, displaying their talents to high
levels. Idris Elba once more blows my mind out how well he executes his
roles. He sells the suffering surgeon well, playing the internalization
well and the survivalist even more. Kate Winslet as ever brings her
character to life, taking the fiery spirit she has within, and
unleashing it in a manner that is wild, yet honed as the movie
progresses. The two certainly have the portrayal of suffering down pat
(they can really shiver) but on many levels they play well off each
other, especially in the beginning. The Dog: While not the main human actor, the dog is by far the
character I cared about the most. This animal, while of course like
many of his canine brethren, was cute to me and impressive in the work
it had to do. Trekking through the show, climbing mountains, and a
variety of other things the dog certainly caught my eye for much of the
screen. In addition, because I'm a big animal fan, the dog was the
character that kept me engaged in the film. Every scene transition, or
new challenge I couldn't help, but think "What happened to the dog."
That component is perhaps the biggest hooking element in the movie to
keep you into the film. What is its fate? Can't tell you, you'll have
to watch. The Scenery: While it is no substitute for the real thing, The Mountain
Between Us is a great example of stunning camera work. My breath was
taken away by all the panoramic shots of the wilderness from the ever
expanding sky in the peaks, to the silent wonder of the forest
littering the valleys below. It brings out the deadly force that mother
nature holds and stunned me by the majesty of the visual prowess
cameras can pick up. So while it is again not the same thing as hiking
these majestic peaks, it is the next best thing. DISLIKES:Diluted Suspense: If you are like me, the trailers might have you
believe this was going to be the most suspenseful movie of the year.
Unfortunately, I was fooled again. This film has some moments that got
my anxiety building, but a majority of it is an almost peaceful trek
through the snow. While they are certainly cold, our character's
journey through the frozen wastelands lacked many elements to build up
the intensity. Perhaps the lack of a cinematic score, or the fact that
obstacles seemed cleared too easily thanks to convenience, this movies
frozen fury was almost a little too fragile for me. Or maybe it was the
other focus of the movie that downgraded the suspense for meThe Love Theme: Yes, just like the symbolic title suggests, the main
wedge is the character's backstories preventing them from moving to the
obvious sign of starting a romance. Much of the film tries to get the
two to address their rather quick development of passion for one
another in some rather lackluster ways. I wasn't sold on the romance
for the most part, and the actors themselves didn't seem quite charmed
by each other outside of one rather pointless scene. The friendship
factor at the beginning was much stronger, and would have been the
route I had taken in developing the story. Again, I don't necessarily
hate love, but I would like it better portrayed for my investment. Disproportion: Timing the movie, as good geeks do, it took only 8
minutes to get up on the mountain. While I appreciate the fast pace, it
gave little time to get to know the characters or at least give them a
decent introduction to the madness about to be had. This opening was
rather shallow and quite disappointing in the grand scheme of the
movie. Yet it's not quite as bad as the dragged out ending of this
film. While not as long as Return of The King, and all its false exits,
The Mountain Between Us sort fizzles out in the end. This tangent was
not necessary, a quick closure to try and tidy up some loose ends of a
weaker component of the film. Worst off, the chemistry started to
falter, making this an awkward mess with a rather cheesy, albeit
poetic, ending. Not sure why these last 25 minutes needed to exist, but
it could have been better spent in the beginning and end of the movie. The VERDICT:The Mountain Between Us is a beautiful spectacle of what the world can
provide in terms of a stage, certainly blowing my mind on the visuals.
Alongside this majestic scenery comes some quality acting and a hooking
factor in the form of the dog. Yet these tools alone couldn't save this
movie from being semi-dull. With the tension dropped to a PG level for
symbolism and awkward love, alongside disproportioned parts, I can't
say this movie delivered all I wanted. The visuals might be the main
theater worthy component, but this reviewer suggests holding out for
RedBox to catch it. My Scores:Action/Adventure/Drama: 6.5 Movie Overall: 5.5
