8
Seriously underrated, and a great example of a filmmaker breaking all the conventional rules.

It's a rare occurrence in which I heavily disagree with critical
responses to films. I had no idea what The Book of Henry was about. I
hadn't watched a trailer and I hadn't read the IMDb synopsis. Save for
watching a web critic's review (which was stunningly brief in plot
description), I knew nothing going into this except that it was
directed by Jurassic World's Colin Trevorrow, the man at the helm of
2019's Star Wars Episode IX. If I had seen the overwhelmingly negative
reviews for this film prior to trekking down to the cinema to see it, I
probably would have skipped out. Then again, it was either this or
Transformers: The Last Knight, and I know well enough by now not to see
a film with Michael Bay's name attached to it. But, here we are, I've
seen The Book of Henry, and I really like it, disagreeing with the
negative critical reception it has received. It's difficult to dive too much into the plot of the film. That's not
because it's hard to follow, but it fares better the less you know
about it. Henry (Lieberher) is a kid genius. Inventive and constantly
thinking, Henry is the man of the house. He looks out for his little
brother Peter (Tremblay) at school and even provides guidance for his
video game playing, picture book creating mother Susan (Watts), and
going as far to even take charge of their financing. When he suspects
that his next door neighbor and fellow classmate is being psychically
abused by her stepfather, he takes it into his own hands to save her.
And that's all I'm going to say, because the less you know the better.I'm quite surprised by how many critics have trashed this. Naomi Watts
is on top form here and carries the emotional weight of the film, and
Jacob Tremblay (of last year's excellent Room) is again fantastic
albeit playing a smaller role. Lieberher completely sells it as Henry
and is likable as the title character. Michael Giacchino (composer of
films like Inside Out and Rogue One) creates a beautiful score that
fits the film perfectly, and Trevorrow's direction keeps the film
afloat despite a few screenplay misfires. For the most part, the script
works despite its somewhat unconventional narrative, but I found it
continuously unpredictable and responded heavily to the performances,
especially Watts. There are a few small misfires but on the whole, it
works in its own peculiar way, and the film is beautifully shot. Whilst The Book of Henry is certainly not for everyone, it had me from
the get go. I was at first concerned with Trevorrow being the director
for Star Wars Episode IX, but now I'm intrigued to see where he takes
it. I'm grateful not to have known anything about this film before
letting myself become absorbed by it, and I thought about it for a long
while afterwards. On this rare occasion, ignore the bad buzz and give
it a go.
