4
End of Watch Movie Review

www.TheMovieFrog.com End of Watch -Writer/director David Ayer was only really familiar to me before I saw
this film for writing the script to Training Day. That, and positive
buzz from the festival circuit, gave me some measure of hope that I was
really going to enjoy End of Watch but it just didn't quite do it for
me. Unfortunately, both of the big problems land squarely in Mr. Ayer's
lap.Can fake found footage film making be finally finished? I, for one,
have had it. It was revolutionary in The Blaire Witch project.
Today...blase, blase, blase. This movie actually takes it to a whole
new level, where the cops are making videos while on the beat and the
crooks are making videos as they commit the crimes. If they'd put down
their own cameras for a second they could probably watch their
opponents' every move on YouTube. This gimmick (I won't even call it a
directorial flourish) plays about as ludicrously as I've made it sound.
Again, I ask: Since the found footage snake is obviously eating its own
tale, can we just stand back and let it finish its meal? Thank you.So, besides coming off like Cops meets Lethal Weapon live tweeted, the
other problem is with the script. End of Watch is SUCH a stereotypical
buddy cop movie. I spent almost the entire run time going, "Oh, that's
just like in _________, only shot on much lower quality film". The
screenplay's only saving grace lies in the dialogue between the two
main characters as they ride around in their squad car. Fragments of
that are actually quite witty.Which leads to the real bright point of the film: Jake Gyllenhaal and
Michael Pena's performances. They have great on screen chemistry, and
their interaction is THE reason to check out this picture (once). This
should be a real breakout role for Pena, who actually manages to
upstage his far more famous co-star. Together they are able to overcome
the predictability of the movie and make it enjoyable for scant
moments...but only moments...3 of 5 stars.additional movie reviews and more can be found at
http://fb.me/1RYJhMyPN
