10
A Beautiful Tragic Epic of Karma and Decisions!

I am a fan of "The Gos"(Ryan Gosling). I admit I even tried to emulate
him in "Drive" and "Crazy, Stupid, Love". He is a great actor and he
always seems to make great movies whether they are mainstream or
independent. He has already received recognition with an Oscar
nomination for "Half Nelson". I was excited to see what character he
would bring to life next when I heard about this movie. I saw the
running time of 140 minutes and saw the trailer. I wondered how they
were gonna make a movie of Gosling and Cooper last that long without
dragging. Then I found out that Gosling is only in the first third of
the movie despite him being the face of the movie. At first I felt
disappointed, but I got over it because I know that isn't a way to
judge a movie. So I went in after hearing mostly praise for this gem of
a film.If most of you haven't already figured out, the movie is divided into 3
acts. The first follows Luke(Gosling) a motorcyclist from a traveling
carnival who quits upon finding out he has a son. He struggles to
provide for the son Jason, who's mother Romina(Eva Mendez) is now with
another man. He resorts to robbing banks. These actions lead into the
Second act which follows Avery(Bradley Cooper) after he has a traumatic
run in with Luke. Avery, a cop who also has a son, is struggling with
corruption within the police station. Soon he finds a job as the
Assistant DA. The third act takes place 15 years later. Now Luke and
Averys sons Jason and AJ are teenagers. Soon they become frenemies. All
of the actions from the first two acts collide into a dramatic finale.
That is just the gist of the plot.The first act was emotionally tense. This was also the best of the
three acts in my opinion. Each act was like a mini movie. But this act
could have been expanded into a separate movie if possible! It was
intense, the dialogue with Ben Mendelsohns character was great. Ben
Mendelsohn should really be recognized for Best Supporting Actor here.
Gosling gives a great performance as an Outlaw type, but also a caring
man who just wants to provide for his son.The second act featured less of the emotion from the first act and more
of the crime aspect of the movie. For a second I thought Martin
Scorcese had taken over the script. That is a compliment. Cooper also
does great acting here! At first you will hate his character, but as
you realize what is going on, you will almost forget about the first
act and now focus on the story of Avery! The third act seems to be getting the least praise. I am confused with
that. Some are saying it was unneeded. I strongly disagree with those
opinions! This was the perfect way to end this story! Many people are
complaining that it was too cliché to include this part. It wasn't as
good as the first two acts, but it was still great. The fact that the
two sons meet and become friends is intriguing. It makes you wonder
what will happen scene after scene. Great climatic ending to the movie! The directing is top notch. This movie is beautiful to watch. It did
what movies that use an overload of CGI mostly can't do. It told a
genuinely good and tension filled story. I do like some movies with
some good CGI, but I love movies that don't rely on special effects
even more! The acting was stunning from all members of the cast. Its
hard to choose a best actor between Gosling and Cooper, but there is no
doubt in my mind that Ben Mendelsohn did a magnificent job in his
supporting role! The story of this movie is gut wrenching. Its a drama.
Its a crime drama. Its a thriller. Its even a R rated High School movie
in the final act at times. It is a modern epic tragedy. It is a tale of
karma and decisions. I personally think it is much better than Director
Derek Cianfrances last film with Gosling "Blue Valentine". This movie
had me on the edge of my seat throughout, especially in the third act.
Again regarding the third act, I think most people aren't too keen with
it because of the way one of the teens talks throughout. I got used to
it within 5 minutes though as I thought it was actually a nice touch.
The music of the movie is brilliantly placed too. The musical score by
Mike Patton was haunting and beautiful. The track "Snow Angel" is one
of the most beautiful pieces of music ever created for film. The main
theme cuts deep especially the way it was used in the film! Stay with
the credits to finalize the experience because the song "The Wolves" by
Bon Iver that plays is a true emotional masterpiece that goes well with
the movie that preceded it! I recommend this movie to anybody that loves a genuinely good original
movie. This movie does demand your full attention though. If needed,
you might have to put on the subtitles to fully understand some of the
less audible dialogue. But that is your personal choice. This is a
great movie for men particularly, whether you're a father, a son or
both. This movie is great for women too, but men will have a more
personal experience! This movie will stick with you either way!
