7
Horreur technologique

In this day and age, horror is getting more and more creative by demand
since the psycho killer in the woods-scenario has pretty much run its
course. A consequence of that is the incorporation of contemporary
technology and concepts appearing in the genre; "found footage" films
have replaced Jason and Michael, and while these films do have
potential (this year's indie "V/H/S" had some neat ideas), even they
are beginning to lose steam. Enter "Sinister", which is an amalgam of
timeless supernatural horror themes and "found footage" technique that
has proved to be a consistent box office draw."Sinister" follows a true crime author, Ellison (Ethan Hawke) who moves
his family (unbeknownst to them) into a house where an entire family
was hung to death in a tree in their backyard, save the youngest
daughter who vanished without a trace. Upon moving in, Ellison finds a
box of 8mm footage and a projector in the attic; contained in these
reels of film are various murders dating from the 1960s up to present
day— one of them is the filming of the hanging murder that occurred in
his backyard. As he furthers investigation into the footage, he finds
more than he bargained for when connections are made to an ancient
deity who takes the souls of children.On a surface level, "Sinister" appears like every other horror piece on
the market, but I was surprised by the substance the film had.
Conceptually and thematically speaking, it's not painfully original,
but director Scott Derrickson makes up for that with striking visuals
and a daunting soundtrack. The opening of the film is particularly
disturbing— the movie begins with the family hanging murder, which sets
a damned unsettling tone for the rest of the film.In terms of the supernatural elements at play in the script, they
almost seem fairytale-ish (a Pagan deity who feeds on children— c'mon),
but it does add a unique element to the film. I have to say though that
the most frightening thing in this movie are the actual murder tapes
themselves. It could be just me, but the notion of filmed murders
unsettles me to the core, even if I know that the footage is faked; as
if the act of murder itself isn't awful enough, documenting it is
downright... well, sinister. The footage utilized in the film is
unsettling, shocking, and above all, it's realistic, so the audience
gets the same unpleasant feelings shared by Ethan Hawke's character.
Truly macabre stuff.Another major positive for this film is that the acting is far above
par for what most genre fans are dealt. Ethan Hawke is a quality actor
and newcomer Juliet Rylance proves her chops here; their scenes
together are particularly strong, and much more than any horror fan
could dream of asking for. The film's ending can be seen from a certain
distance, although it doesn't necessarily make it less shocking in this
case. If anything, it adds to the sense of dread pervading the film.Overall, "Sinister" was a pleasant surprise for me. It doesn't offer
heaps in terms of originality, but it's a stylistically stunning film
and takes steps in the right in direction very gracefully. When it
comes down to it, I can't say that I was even really "scared" by the
film so much as I was unsettled by it. It has its share of orthodox
jump scares, but I was more bothered and rattled by the grim nature of
the film as a whole, which is a nice feeling to walk away from the
theater with as a thick-skinned genre fan who has become increasingly
harder to unnerve. 7/10.
