3
The Anti-Life Equation...

I'm on to you, Sandler. I know who you really are.Are any of you DC fans? You know, Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman and
all the rest of the Justice League? In case you're not, I'll give you a
brief history lesson on one of their most powerful opponents, Darkseid.For all intents and purposes, this guy is Satan. He rules a planet with
fire pits so massive that they can be seen from space where people are
enslaved, tortured, brainwashed and even murdered on a daily basis.
Darkseid's subjects have only ever known tyranny and precious few
manage to escape. In the interest of fairness, he wasn't always like
this. He had a wife and son at one point, but his own mother had this
woman assassinated. TV Tropes calls this a Moral Event Horizon and he
pretty much decides that if he can't be happy, then nobody will.As such, his goal in every iteration is the complete subjugation of all
life in the universe. He wants everything and everyone remade in his
image, which sounds like a tall order for someone who isn't exactly a
god. The means to this, though, is the title of my review: the
Anti-Life Equation. He obsessively seeks this thing to the very ends of
the universe, which I believe has brought him here to Earth. At first, Adam Sandler baffled me. His declining quality of films seems
to only bolster the fan base he has. Most of his jokes are shock humor,
funny only on the most superficial of levels to children who don't know
any better in the vein of Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer. Somehow he
keeps lowering the bar and his audience remains fiercely loyal to him.
How? I watched this movie to find out, disturbed by my own silence and
stillness throughout. And then it hit me...Adam Sandler is searching
for the Anti-Life Equation and by god he is getting close. If you sit a
rational human being down and show them a double feature of Jack & Jill
and Grown Ups 2, you will break them in such a profound way as to
render them a drooling vegetable. Don't let him succeed. DO NOT LET
ADAM SANDLER ACQUIRE THE ANTI-LIFE EQUATION. We will all pay a terrible
price if he does. Worse than indoctrination at the hands of the
Reapers.
