9
One of the most stylish and fun thrillers of the decade.

It's a bold statement but I stand by it. This movie had everything I
wanted and a hell of a lot more. The plot in a nutshell is that a guy
named David (Dan Stevens) goes to the house of a soldier who was KIA
and claims to have known him personally, so the family invites him to
stay. Then things start happening, secrets come out, and sh*t goes
down. Simple premise, and if it sounds familiar it's probably because
it's been done many times, but never quite with as much finesse as The
Guest. The writer and director are the same team that brought us You're Next
and a few segments from V/H/S and V/H/S/2. Personally I loved You're
Next - it was a straight up horror comedy with little to no surprises.
Here, the duo hone their strengths into their magnum opus so to speak.
The Guest is an action thriller, but there are a lot more elements at
work. It's dramatic, it's funny, it's intense, and it gets pretty
frightening at times. The scope seems very wide but it all flows
together without a hitch, and each emotional reaction keeps your eyes
glued to the screen waiting for what happens next. The Guest is held together by its lead, Dan Stevens. I haven't seen him
in anything before this but he was flawless in this role as an
enigmatic, seemingly charming family friend. David is immensely
likable, even when questionable things start happening you still want
to root for the guy. He just has a badass aura around him. Dan Stevens
plays him with such conviction that you can't see through him and you
have no idea what is going on in his head, but you know that there's
more to him than meets the eye.When I say sh*t goes down in this movie, I mean it. Sh*t. Goes. Down. I
won't spoil anything but The Guest has one of the most stylish,
suspenseful, colorful, and downright invigorating third acts in a movie
I've seen in a while. It's f*cking magnificent. Some people are split
on this opinion but honestly, I thought it was an absolute blast. It
takes place in a Halloween fun house; as soon as it began I turned into
a giddy schoolgirl. Yeah, it's just that much fun. The first two acts
are impeccable as well, building up the tension and suspense to a level
of tangibility that you can cut with a knife. The characters surrounding David are all great as well. They're your
typical family, and although it may seem like they're just caricatures,
they are completely convincing in their roles largely due to the
realistic dialogue. Everything progresses believably and exactly how
you'd want it to, and the predictability is a strength in this case
because it gives the filmmakers a chance to make the simple premise as
shiny and creative as possible. I was not bored for a minute of this
movie. The soundtrack is phenomenal too - it has an '80s thriller vibe
and a lot of dark electronic grooves similar to those in You're Next
but even better.The Guest is an action-thriller buff's wet dream, and it even throws in
some horror for good measure. It really is one of the most underrated
movies of 2014 and an experience that no thriller fan should miss out
on.
