10
Chemistry of the Best Kind!!!

When I was about to give up on modern comedies, here comes a sequel
that outdoes the original ten times or more. Tatum is excellent as the
slowest of the pair, proving he's a very good comedian, both physically
and delivering some of the funniest lines in the movie, and his
partner, Hill, redeems himself from the depths of "Wolf" with a turn
that shows how talented he can be. His multidimensional geek fully
forms a perfect whole with the physical and sweet jock turn by Tatum.Before we can catch our breaths, the leads are back in school, this
time in college trying to stop the viral distribution of a new drug. We
all know how it will turn out, but the set up is to put these two in an
environment where they will not fit because of the obvious. Hill, well
spins his character in a different dimension and takes on a romantic
and bromantic persona. His romance and break up scenes rank way up
there with the zaniness of "Some Like it Hot", and we are not prepared
even in the more open times for some of the exchanges between the two
actors when every other lines has a double meaning. This is classic
comedy. In particular, the scene in the psychologist office had the
audience laugh out loud because absolutely no one on screen was tuned
to the same channel, and it kept getting funnier and funnier. For a
moment, I thought I was watching "Tootsie" and some of its best bits
when the main character was having a nightmarish experience. This time,
Hill and Tatum do an amazing job by taking their bromance into new
levels.Tatum is definitely having the time of his life, as he finds his soul
mate in school and apparently his destiny in life. Here he is living
his dream, succeeding at every possible endeavor, being popular,
sharing every moment with his newly found friend. This is serious
competition for his undercover buddy, and the writers take flight with
it when we see the reactions in Hill's face and their further
exchanges.The silly action scenes and the vulgarity that peppers and ruins much
of what they call comedy nowadays take a second seat to the development
of characters here. We're not sitting listening to boring expositions
or innumerable descriptions of bathroom humor. Yes, those elements are
carefully placed, and what comes out is the silliness, the naivete and
stupidity of how the characters deal with their relationships with each
other. What might have been vulgar in another film, here ranks with
some of the best comedy in the movies. There are many tributes and
references to those films throughout "22". Be ready to acknowledge the
talents of Allen, Benny H., and a few others as winks are given to the
audience. This might not be highbrow comedy, but it is beautifully
delivered. Much of the credit once again goes to the incredible work by
Tatum and the fine support Hill gives him. You will be laughing out
loud over and over.There is one scene that has the explosion of a parent in a visitation
day, and Ice Cub's outburst is one of the funniest ever on film. His
rantings and reactions to a sudden realization about something one of
his undercover agents has done was a moment to treasure because of his
excellent timing and the rest of the cast's facial reactions. Whoever
wrote the screenplay did his homework and made sure that the skeleton
didn't go in without every other element to make a fantastic comedy. So
many times we have been given trash, full of unnecessary and stupid
jokes that are more shocking than funny. The recent "Neighbors" being a
prime example of everything that can go wrong with miscasting, misfired
lines, and lazy direction.To close, there is beauty in all kinds of art. We have incredible
harmonies in rock and heavy metal anthems. Class and perfection doesn't
only occur in historical and pretentious comedies. Those are bound to
be disappointments because they appeal to people who think only a
particular type of productions should be considered fine entertainment.
Some of the classics surprised us because we didn't expect much at
first, but we felt pleased, entertained, and we were moved with the
depth of what lied behind the the facade. "22" is a whole piece to be
savored and enjoyed, and to laugh out loud, too.HAVE FUN!!!!
