7
As dark as it gets

I have read a few reviews regarding this movie and all of them have
said it's dark, violent and not for the faint of heart. Those
definitions are fine, however I still do not think this is enough to
describe the tone of the movie. I would describe it as ruthless and
depressing. This does not mean I didn't enjoy it, as you can tell by my
rating, however the point of a review is to warn a potential viewer of
what they are getting themselves into and this movie is as dark as I
have seen. It is unlike any western that I have ever seen as it is not
traditional. It's so unique that I would have given this a bit of a
higher rating if it wasn't so hard to watch. I do not want to ruin any
of the plot as it made the movie more interesting for me just based on
what I had seen in the trailers. I can see why it was set in the
western time period due to the realism of the material. A movie like
this set in our times would have been impossible to make, and if they
did it would not have been executed as well as this. The acting was
quite impressive. It truly feels like each actor really threw
themselves in their roles, which is incredible for some as there are
some twisted characters in this film. Which brings me to Guy Pearce who
played the role of 'The Reverend'. He plays such an awful man that I
have no idea how he would have been able to shake this off after
filming was completed. I cannot remember the last time I hated a
character as much as a despised him. Dakota Fanning was also amazing in
her role. She was convincing from start to finish with many different
emotions throughout the movie. She also needed to use facial
expressions more than dialogue in the movie, which cannot not be an
easy task to complete, but she nailed it! When I had first seen the
length of the movie I was concerned it would have major passing issues,
it did not. The story grabs you from the beginning to the end, I
couldn't stop watching. I had no idea how it would end and could not
wait to find out. The most impressive part is it really did not have a
lot of action, just characters that grabbed your attention whether good
or bad. It was well written. So if you are not of the faint of heart
and can handle a very dark, ruthless, depressing story that is still
entertaining from start to finish see this movie, you won't regret it.
