10
It Follows breathes new life into a dying genre

This is probably the best horror movie I've seen in the past decade. It
Follows is a throwback to classic late '70s - '80s horror films and
draws many comparisons to John Carpenter's style, from the music to the
cinematography, and rather than appearing like a carbon copy or rehash
of Halloween, director David Robert Mitchell executes this odd premise
with such flair and finesse that you can't help but be refreshed by its
cleverness. Everything about it works, from the brooding pace to the
relatable characters, effortlessly sucking you into this gloomy world
where STDs can pass on entities that follow you around no matter where
you are. This is where most of the suspense comes from, because instead
of relying on blood and shock value, It Follows is subtle and thought
provoking - you never know where this thing is and it moves so slowly
that you don't know when it will appear, and this uncertainty in
waiting is what real suspense is all about. One aspect that stands out, apart from the brilliant writing and
directing, is the musical score by Disasterpeace. It's absolutely
gorgeous in the most ominous, haunting way you can imagine. It's retro
but not dated - heavy on synths and low on bombast, it sets the eerie
tone of the movie right from the get-go and elevates the film's
effectiveness into the stratosphere. Even as a standalone listen the
music is brilliant, but when juxtaposed with the bleak imagery and
unnerving atmosphere, it's downright masterful.It Follows is not an overtly scary movie. It's a slowburner, and the
emphasis on mood over jump scares makes it all the more terrifying. The
acting is spot-on, the cinematography is glorious, the pacing is
perfect - it's a breath of fresh air into the horror genre that has
been on life-support for a while now. I can go on and on, but the thing
to remember is that It Follows is not for everyone. If you're expecting
this to be a paranormal slasher or something of the sort then you
probably won't enjoy it. It's purely psychological, and these days,
psychological horror is making a huge comeback. Last year we had The
Babadook and this year the movie to beat is It Follows. Both movies are
by new directors - Jennifer Kent and David Robert Mitchell respectively
- which means they have their entire career ahead of them to rejuvenate
the genre to the heights it used to reach. It Follows is a masterpiece
in every respect and an absolute must-watch for horror fans that
thought the genre was completely drained of originality. I can only
imagine where horror will progress from here.
