2
A Ghost Story

Despite all the negativity many associated with 2016, and rightly so,
it brought a special gift with it that I have not stopped embracing. I
still talk about Manchester by the Sea, I'll probably endlessly sing
this film's praises. Since seeing Manchester by the Sea five times in
theatres, I decided to check out more from its writer/director Kenneth
Lonergan. I also began to eagerly anticipate Casey Affleck's next
project. I was even more excited when I read about A Ghost Story. When
I read about this modest film tackling the biggest issues of existence
and life's unanswered questions, I did the kind of happy dance only a
student of philosophy would do. The 2017 film directed by David Lowry
promised to be a simplistic yet grand look at love and loss, and how to
endure when we lose someone prematurely. Everything about it sounded
right up my alley, I even traveled nearly two hours away to be able to
see it so to say I was invested would be an understatement. Needless to
say, I obviously took a wrong turn, because I didn't see A Ghost Story
fulfill what it promised, nor did the film speak to me in an impactful
way. I experienced a complete lack of emotion as the lights came back
on in the empty theatre and was left pondering, not the meaning of
existence or its meaninglessness, but just how self-important a film
could appear without ever actualizing its vision. C (Casey Affleck) is killed in an automobile accident. Unable to leave
behind his love M (Rooney Mara) he hovers between the living and the
dead, maintaining some level of existence as a ghost, white sheet and
all. He witnesses M readjust to her life of day-to-day menial
activities, and even witnesses her possibly move on in her love life
with another person. Desperate to maintain a connection with her, he
spends his time trying to obtain a personally meaningful piece of her
that she left behind in the house they shared together. As he attempts
to recover the last piece of his love he has access to, he sees the
world change as he is catapulted through the years. Not only does the
ghost see far into the future, but he sees far into the past, as well,
and is shown the family responsible for the first fence post put in on
the land where his house would eventually be built. An exploration on
the grandiose scale of the world often ignored by our own
self-interest, A Ghost Story attempts to construct a fresh look using
many borrowed pieces from philosophy and literature that never quite
materializes.Few things make me happier, cinematically than a "little film that
could". A minimalist story with modest sets and sparse dialogue is
almost certain to endear itself to me. I should have loved A Ghost
Story. There is only one scene in which we see more than two people on
screen together and one of the main characters is dead throughout most
of the film's runtime, yet, the film still fails to achieve its
self-professed "smallness". Perhaps my main gripe about the film's
alleged simplicity lies in the heavy-handed way it delivers its
message. There is not a single bit of this film that gives the audience
enough tools to arrive at the desired conclusion on their own. Instead
of subtlety, David Lowry presents images and statements that drive home
his message hand-over-fist. I get it, and I got it about 30 minutes
into the movie that life is meaningless and much greater than our
individual lives that most people remain focused on throughout their
day. I didn't need a stroll through the past or to be jolted into the
future to understand that there are more people than me in the world
and we're all going to die. That lesson is one that I would have much
rather experienced in a philosophy course than to see in a film using
such a blatant method. Granted, I minored in philosophy during my
undergrad so these are themes I consider often, but the change in pace
the film underwent switching from its initial egoism bent to its
collectivism was disengaging and disingenuous. It seems as though the
film is attempting to make a grand philosophical statement while
maintaining an infantile view on life and its meaning. I also have an
aversion to stylistic decisions that don't seem to serve a purpose. In
A Ghost Story, the aspect ratio chosen seems to only exist as a
self-serving gesture meant to remind the audience that it is an art
film. A Ghost Story hardly treads new ground, as it promised, and left
me in a cold emotionless state. A technical achievement, A Ghost Story
would have left me far less angry if that was all it wanted to be, but
the intellectualism it attempts while showing no regard for the
intelligence of the audience sours me on its product completely.
