9
Move Over... Chloe has arrived and she is very good

"If I Stay" is a meditative story of what we do when we have to make
the ultimate choice. A teen finds herself revisiting important moments
of her life at a crucial time, and by the conclusion of the movie has
to decide whether she should which one of her beloved she will follow.
Chloe is nothing short of sensational here, giving a very sweet,
strong, and sensitive performance as the girl who has lived a very good
life but finds herself at odds when she meets the young man who could
be her soul mate. There's a lot of love and affection in this movie,
and it is very painful to see that there are times in life when pain
rears its ugly head, and there's not much we can do about it.Mia (Chloe) is born to a loving pair of free spirits. These two Denny
and Kat (Mirelle Enos and Joshua Leonard) are remarkable in their
portrayals of two very sweet and loving parents. They show hints of a
wild and fun past, but they are able to transition into a mature and
nurturing set of individuals who are willing to do everything they can
to support their children. It's heartbreaking to see their fate, and we
immediately miss them because the characters are probably two of the
most wonderful creations of the last decade. It's not that we believe
them incredible because we recognize their flaws. It's just that in
this film we see their good side, though we recognize they have fears
and broken dreams, too, but here the children are the important part of
their lives.The film is about choices and growing up. Mia finds herself a bit
insecure and can't see herself getting into Julliard. It's obvious to
everyone she has the talent and the passion, the fire and the craft is
hers, but she's slow to recognize much of what's obvious, and this
includes the arrival of the man who might be her perfect partner, Adam,
in a great turn by Jamie Blackley. He loves music, he loves life, and
most importantly, he loves her.Most of the film is spent in the hospital, as Mia watches everyone's
reaction to her family accident. She wavers between staying or going.
She hears people express their vote of confidence that she'll be able
to pull through, and that it's up to her to decide. She's loved by all
the people who come in await the turn of events, and things become more
intense as the hours pass by, and while she looks back at her life, we
understand that this is not an easy choice. The family she knows is now
for the most part gone, but there are others who also have plenty of
love and affection for her. It's just that if one knows those parents
are not going to be around anymore, faith in surviving dims pretty
quickly, and it would take a very special individual to give you hope
again. So we keep on hoping, waiting, and trusting that the ultimate
decision will be the right one, and that no one will be disappointed.Waiting is painful for all of the parties involved, including us, but
we are fortunate to see a great director and some very good actors
working on this story. Most impressive is Chloe who can say so much
with those expressive eyes of hers. She has already proved herself a
physical performer who is not afraid to show the dark side of humans. I
can recall her amazing part in "Kick Ass", and she's the one element in
"Hugo" that kept me from running out of the theater. Indeed, she's
grown up in front of her eyes, but this girl has taken on a very
difficult role, and she's given us a full performance, an innocent at
first who grows in front of our eyes as she experiences life, and she
is lucky to have her immediate family provide her with strength, love,
and support, only to have her suddenly, face a cruel turning point in
her life all by herself. We know she can handle because there's inner
strength and intelligence in this young lady. The question is whether
she'll play it safe or she'll continue to meet the challenges of her
special life.This is an interesting film and demands a second viewing in order to
fully appreciate it. I want to go back and see more of the quiet
moments. To listen to the dialog and the messages in the superb line up
of songs, to see the choreography of those family and neighbors
reunions long gone from the movies and very welcome in here. Enos'
performance is like watching flowers bloom and the rainbows in full
display. She's life herself and her eyes are great conveyors of
emotion. We believe Mia and her are fully related. She's the muse that
inspires love, confidence, and strength. It's a wonderful piece of
acting.We now know that "Carrie", "Kick Ass", and her other turns were not
flukes, that she's the real thing. I'm glad she's not involved in any
of those silly trilogies, that she's moving on to serious film making
and will be able to see more of this young actress. Here's someone who
can project real emotions without the need of contrived action
backgrounds and silly story lines.
