9
Happy Death Day Triumphs with its unoriginal originality

Happy Death Day (2017), directed by Christopher Landon who is famous
for his Paranormal Activities franchise, has created its own genre and
performs way over my low expectations regardless of its seemingly
"familiar" plot from Groundhog Day (1993). The protagonist Tree, a
sorority girl, has found herself stuck living in the same day over and
over again ending with her being murdered every night by the same
killer repeatedly. Tree thus goes on a personal adventure, in attempt
to discover the true identity of the killer to hopefully one day
prevent the murder to happen and thus get out of the loop. She thus
began a journey of self-discovery and self- redemption with the help of
her only friend through recognizing the consequences of her own actions
in order to try and solve her own murder mystery. The film consequently created its own genre of horror rom-com, scary
but yet heart-warming and funny at the same time. Some of Tree's ideas
upon discovering she is living in the same day over and over again are
silly if not laughable, since there will be no consequences the next
day whatsoever due to her eventual seemingly inevitable death at night,
until one point where her actions suddenly do matter and she has to
make a life or death decision in order to survive and have future that
she desires. Being a veteran horror movie director, Christopher Landon succeeds in
showing off his skill of dropping settle hints right in front of the
viewers alongside with a surprising twist in the end. Shots of settle
hints are shown since the beginning of the movie, providing the
audience an opportunity to try and solve the murder before the ultimate
reveal of the killer's identity on screen. A typical college campus
setting, anyone could be the suspect, thus Tree makes a list of
possible suspects alongside with the audience who are creating their
own lists, and debunks every single possibility until there is no more
suspects and making the murderer almost as someone who possesses
superpower, but yet with a sole purpose of killing Tree. But in the
end, everything makes perfect sense. The film raises questions on causality and consequences, especially by
setting the story on a college campus; it rings the bell for students
with a warning that even tiny, everyday actions could have detrimental
consequences, similar to the idea of The Butterfly Effect (2003) or
just the theory of the butterfly effect itself. With a familiar theme
and a nearly identical plot (if one could imagine Bill Murray being
murdered by a groundhog repeatedly in Groundhog Day), the film still
does not fail to impress the audience of its beautifully written,
heartwarming story; Jessica Rothe's incredible performance of Tree
could also crown her the title of a future scream queen. If you are
looking for the perfect Halloween movie this year, Happy Death Day is a
must watch for its unoriginal originality in its story line and genre,
without too much blood and gore that is seen in almost every other
horror movies of 2017.
