7
Fast-Paced Tale of the Devil Inside

A struggling painter (Ethan Embry) is possessed by supernatural forces
after he and his young family move into their dream home in rural Texas
(just north of Austin), in this creepy haunted-house tale.First and foremost, this film deserves credit for working in the
metal-horror connection. You don't have to enjoy metal to enjoy this
movie, but I think it helps. One reason the 1980s were a great decade
for horror is because it was also a great decade for punk and metal.
"Devil's Candy" doesn't try to be an 80s throwback, but does offer
something of a modern equivalent.Leading us through the film is Ethan Embry. Like many others, my love
for Embry is strong. Not to pigeon-hole him, but he has been in a
number of horror films in the last decade (such as the brilliant "Late
Phases") and as part of the horror community I'd like to claim him as
one of ours. Fans of "Grace and Frankie" may fight me, but we would all
agree he is a great actor and truly underrate. Casey Affleck an Oscar
contender? Really? Embry emotes with his eyes in way that few others
can -- we have seen him sensitive, petrified, terrifying, and
everything else. Some of that we see in this film (though luckily for
us he is more on the good side this time around).And countering Embry is Pruitt Taylor Vince, who unfortunately is
probably best known as a "character actor" who has one of those faces
you have seen 100 times but don't know the name. If this is you, make
this the movie you start remembering Vince for. Holy smokes. He has had
a handful of "idiot" or "incompetent" roles, but he really turns it on
here, making us wonder just how much he is tormented inside and having
pity on him, even though we know within the first five minutes that he
is a tool of the devil.The plot is thin, but not necessarily in a bad way. Rather than get
bogged down or become too cerebral, "Devil's Candy" prefers to keep the
pace moving so we can get punched in the face over and over again in
its relatively short running time. You like cerebral horror? Great, we
can watch "Frailty". This is not that film. But it is one filled with
rich atmospheric cinematography and a dark, yet vibrant color palette
(if such a combination is possible). With all due respect to
writer-director Sean Byrne, it is cinematographer Simon Chapman who
sold me on this film.The only thing that left me wondering, is why did the film take so long
for a proper release? Beginning in 2015, it was floating around film
festivals, receiving praise. The journey continued throughout 2016, and
we finally see a release from IFC in March 2017. I suspect maybe it was
securing the music budget, as getting the rights to put Metallica's
"For Whom the Bell Tolls" on DVD is probably not cheap. But what do I
know? Regardless, IFC must be thanked for getting this out to the
masses. Perhaps not the best horror film coming out on home video this
year, but I assure you it is far from the worst. Any horror fan who has
90 minutes to spare would be investing their time wisely with "The
Devil's Candy".
