8
A rare worthy entry into teen Dramedy genre

Greetings again from the darkness. Coming-of-age teen dramas with a
comedic flair that speak to that tumultuous period of life are rarely
worthy of discussion. The exceptions hover film greatness: Rebel
Without a Cause, Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Dazed and Confused, The
Breakfast Club, and Say Anything ... Along comes young director James
Ponsoldt and his adaptation of Tim Tharp's novel. While not perfect and
falling just short of the level of those classics, it is nonetheless a
welcome addition and quite interesting.It's tempting to call Sutter (played by up-and-comer Miles Teller) a
happy-go-lucky kid. He's the frat boy type - quick with a quip, smooth
with the parents and girls, and the envy of the masses. That term would
be misapplied to a kid who not only is never without his flask, but
also gives them as gifts. He uses his wit and booze to dull the pain of
his aimless existence. We see his lackadaisical efforts at completing a
college admission form, and it's used as a plot device to track
Sutter's progression through the film.Brie Larson is terrific as Sutter's perfect match ... right up until
she decides that his philosophy of living in the now (even
spectacularly) doesn't leave hope for much of a future. After an
extreme night of drinking and partying, Sutter gets awakened while
laying in a neighbor's front yard. Shailene Woodley (The Descendants)
is Aimee Finicky who recognizes the popular Sutter, even though he has
no idea who she is. Slowly, the two connect on a level previously
unknown to either ... some good, some not so wise (just like real
teenagers).This couple of opposites learn much from each other, and soon enough,
Sutter is confronting his long last father (Kyle Chandler). No real
surprises what he discovers, but it's a life lesson that must be
learned. Sutter seeks more from his remaining family - a big sister
(Mary Elizabeth Winstead) who escaped the grind, and a workaholic mom
(Jennifer Jason Leigh) doing her best to provide hope for Sutter.The script is co-written by Scott Neustadter and Michael Weber who also
wrote (500) Days of Summer. John Hughes and Cameron Crowe proved they
could present teen dilemmas in an entertaining way, and this one
follows the same structure. This is a dialogue-heavy story as Sutter
and Aimee struggle alone and together to figure out life's next steps.I will say that for the first few minutes of the movie, I found Sutter
to be the kind of guy that I would typically have no interest in. Tip
of the cap to the filmmakers and Miles Teller for turning that around.
It should also be noted that Shailene Woodley is so naturally
affecting, that her character never comes across as anything but
sincere. Given the state of today's mainstream coming of age stories,
this one definitely deserves a look and could gather some attention
come awards time.
