10
Excellent. Ignore the Comic Nerds.

I enjoyed the first Iron Man film and the Avengers. The second one was
alright. This one is just excellent.A lot of the negativity here seems to stem from the fact that the
'Mandarin' is meant to be some kind of evil wizard in the comics and he
is not in this. That sounds completely ludicrous. If that genuinely is
the plot of the comic books then it only reinforces the reasons I have
never got into them. The portrayal of his character in this film is
genuinely clever and touches on some proper world issues. If he had
'magic rings' it would have been a total joke and if it stuck to what
he apparently is in the comic books then this film would be quite
dreadful as a result.Another complaint appears to be related to the film focusing more on
Tony Stark than Iron Man. Personally this is the reason I found the
film so good. Superheroes are kind of silly and I never had any
interest in the subject until the modern films which bring them down to
Earth a bit. You only have to watch an old Batman film where they are
just running about in brightly coloured spandex and compare it to the
more modern ones to see this much.In this film Tony Stark feels like a genuine person. He overcomes
weakness before he can triumph as Iron Man and it is ultimately his
creations which save the day and not him. In this way it feels like the
story has grown up and come full circle. I actually found it
surprisingly poignant at times whilst still being a clever and
enthralling story.If this were just two hours of Iron Man flying about the place shooting
at stuff as so many people seem to have wanted judging by the reviews
then it would be pretty boring. This is sort of one of the issues that
the second film had. You knew he would win out and he essentially had
an arsenal of super weapons to hand so there was no question as to how
that would play out. This film has him facing genuine adversity.I cannot find fault with this film. People are ticking off a huge list
of issues with writing, acting and even the music. In reality they are
just hurt because it is not true to their precious comic books. I can
understand that to a degree. I hate the Hitchhikers Guide film because
it simply does not live up to the books or radio series. However when
your complaint is that the super villain isn't some kind of genie I
think you have to reassess your stance. If the Mandarin was the same as
in the comic books then this film would have been dreadful. Seriously
dreadful. I mean properly ridiculous.As it stands I would say this is the best film of the trilogy and
easily on a par with the Avengers.
