2
The Worst Film Of The Year. Loud, Obnoxious and All Over The Place.

Go ahead and find this review not useful. But listen to me. I love
Marvel films. The Original Spider-man Trilogy was amazing and The
Avengers was awesome. But when I saw Iron Man 3 I was bored out of my
mind and I felt it was not good. So I lowered my expectations for this
movie and hoped it would be better right? Because from what I learned,
the lower the expectations, the better the movie. Big Mistake.Thor The Dark World is all over the map with scenes of badly
choreographed action scenes to bad comedy to laughable acting.I really wanted to like this film because I liked the original Thor. It
was really good and it was directed by Kenneth B. who is the man who
made The best adaptation of Hamlet Ever. But the movie suffers from
production troubles to a bad script.The Film begins with this super magic thing called the Ether... I think
which causes destruction. They find it and this one guy says "Lets
Destroy it." but this other guy says "ITS TOO POWERFUL! We must put it
in a place where it is easily touchable!" I knew this was going to be a
bad film because the beginning suffers from cliché after cliché.Thor returns to Earth because Jane gets the Ether in her and they must
heal her. The Dark Elves who are the bad guys for the film attack
Thor's planet and the main baddie tries to line up the main 9 planets
and cause darkness everywhere. Thor gets Loki from Prison and they go
stop the evil baddie.The script and direction are extremely weak. The script sucks because
the dialogue is horrendous. The acting is hilarious from Anthony
Hopkins as Odin as he overacts a lot in this movie.The action scenes are poorly choreographed and make no sense.Also, Heroes should have weaknesses. Thor nearly throughout the whole
Has none. Why should we care if they are unstoppable without any
weaknesses, that takes away the credibility of the character.Also, this teleporting plot line makes no sense. They go nearly
everywhere in this movie. In the final fight scene fall everywhere
going back from place to place. They never explain why these teleports
are randomly put all over the map but it really annoys me.The jokes... oh my god. They are so unfunny. Who cares if the Professor
guy's pants are not on? Bad comedy has to be understood and this movie
doesn't understand comedy. The character of Darcy is obnoxious. She was
alright in the first but she always has to say HOLY SH*T 500 times a
scene.The special effects are alright but its not always about the effects.
One effect actually hurt my eyes and I didn't know if it was the 3D or
if my eyes just hurt.There are very few good things about this movie. The guy who plays Loki
is one of the only redeeming qualities of this movie and he is very
convincing. The Stan Lee Cameo is also great and funny like always.
There is a awesome twist I wont spoil. But that's about it.This movie is just super loud in its bad action scenes are poor acting
and ear bleeding sound effects.Thor The Dark World is the worst movie of the year without a doubt. I
was disappointed severely. Marvel can be much better then this and I
hope Captain America The Winter Soldier does a better job at being a
better superhero movie.25/100 D
