7
Starts great but loses steam

The trailer to this film is rather misleading. It's the equivalent of
advertising the whole of Disneyland with just clips of Space Mountain
again and again. There's a lot more going on here than Ryan Gosling
robbing banks and being a general badass in The Place Beyond The Pines.
There are in fact at least three main characters all with their own
story. And while the Ryan Gosling section is, a bit like Space Mountain
at Disney, the best bit of the package he is only one part of a much
bigger picture. A motor bike stunt rider finds out he has a son so packs in his day job
and takes the logical step of robbing banks to provide for him. The
story deals with the family life of the man as well as a rookie cop who
exposes his police department to be corrupt. I found the film very absorbing from the start with Ryan Gosling's
character development on fast forward so at least 3 massive life events
all happen in the first 20 minutes of the film. There's not a lot of
action scenes but when there are they're very tense and exciting. The family life aspect is quite heartwarming and you do believe that
his character does love his son and wants to provide for him. There are
fantastic believable acting performances all round here with Ryan
Gosling and later on Bradley Cooper really showcasing their acting
talents. It's engaging and I really cared what happened to both of
their characters. The main problem with the film is it's length and not knowing when to
stop. The first part of the film is constantly engaging and would be a
nine out of ten if the film stayed like that the whole way through.
When the focus shifts from characters however it really doesn't feel as
exciting and almost feels like the start of totally different movie. A
movie that isn't bad but is nowhere near as good as the one you've just
seen.Every story told is linked obviously but sometimes it feels a tad
loose. There is a dramatic time shift when the film reaches the 100
minute mark and what follows really seems to drag. It never really felt
like it was going anywhere. It was by no means boring however, it just
lost a bit of steam towards the end. The Place Beyond The Pines is
worth a watch but just be prepared to have you're socks blown off and
then have them planted firmly back on your feet as the film continues.
