10
Thrill ride par excellence

For motor-heads, the Fast and Furious franchise is pure sin, the sins
getting bigger and badder with every sequel. But the franchise is more
than just car flicks. They have established an instant connection with
today's youth culture gorged in hip hop, street cred and video game
violence, spanning continents. While many thought that the previous
installment Fast Five was the very pinnacle the series could aim for,
out comes Fast and Furious 6, breaking all previous boundaries, and
shattering myths that a 6th installment cannot be creative, and is one
too many. Before we talk of the movie though, let us take a moment to
absorb the legend of the sullen hero- Vin Diesel."If you rearrange the letters in Vin Diesel it reveals his credo: "I
End Lives." "Vin Diesel invented black. In fact, he invented the entire spectrum of
visible light. Except pink. Tom Cruise invented pink." "The eternal conundrum "what happens when an unstoppable force meets an
immovable object" was finally solved when Vin Diesel punched himself in
the face."Part espionage thriller, and part testosterone fueled race track, the
movie starts off in first gear though, with the gang dissipated across
the world spending their 100 million heist that they had carried out in
Fast Five in their own ways, though a mountain road race between Diesel
and Walker portends of things to come. Things shift gears once federal
agent Hobbs (The Rock) enlists the help of the Furious gang to bring
down a terrorist (Luke Evans) who has skills to match the Furious. An
old member of the gang previously presumed dead returns too. The
motivations matter little, what matters is that they are loud, ooh-aha
inducing and, with the addition of MMA fighter Gina Carano, extremely
brutal. And if you thought that the highway mayhem with the tank that
is featured in the trailer was the maximum director Justin Lin was
attempting, you are so very wrong. He has in store a shattering climax
which involves the Furious gang battling the villains in a cargo plane
the size of an island, with a dozen supercharged sports cars with
harpoons trying to stop it from taking off. What is customary though is
the ball of fire in the end, and Diesel walking out of it, unscathed,
smiling. Some more homage to the man, then- "When Vin Diesel goes to donate blood, he declines the syringe, and
instead requests a handgun and a bucket." "Vin Diesel played Russian Roulette with a fully loaded gun and won." "In an average living room there are 1,242 objects Vin Diesel could use
to kill you, including the room itself."Director Justin Lin has conjured up a movie that makes you forget all
other F and F ones. Never mind that there is a plot to boot, most of
the films budget and time is aptly dedicated to high speed dueling,
massive explosions, inspired stunt-work and creative property damage.
The actors don't have too much to act about, but you would expect this
to be a Diesel, Rock or a Paul Walker movie. But no, it is an out and
out Romano (Tyrese Gibson) movie. Every Romano moment is a LOL moment,
and he more than makes up for the forced seriousness of the other cast
members. Luke Evans as the villain is a bad choice though- he has
absolutely no personality in front of these towering hunks, but he does
seem to have x-ray vision when he points at Diesel and says "Look at
his face. He is so angry"- meanwhile Diesel remains as impassive as
ever. Can't have enough of him?"The word "lesbian" derives from an old Latin phrase that roughly
translates as "She who has not yet been introduced to Vin Diesel.""There is no theory of evolution, just a list of creatures Vin Diesel
allows to live." "Vin Diesel once ate the entire cake at a bachelor party before anyone
could tell him there was a stripper in it."Love cars or hate cars, critics and reviews be damned, just go and
watch Fast and Furious 6, popcorn in hand. This is a shamelessly
entertaining, guffaw inducing, and awe-inspiring thrill ride. Wait till
the end though, and we are introduced to what will come in part 7.
Perhaps the only real competition in Hollywood to Diesel's racing
skills. Any guesses? Or you would rather like to be transported
somewhere.10/10
