8
Very Good Drama/Suspense/Prison Movie

"Shot Caller" is a tense, mostly terrifying story of a high ranking,
prison gang member (played by Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau) out on parole. On
orders from his boss to spearhead a major score of illegal guns, Waldau
has no choice but to see it through. To refuse would mean his
execution, as well as his family's. Omari Hardwick plays a cop who is
also Waldau's parole officer. Somehow, Hardwick is tipped off to the
illegal guns; and he puts Waldau on surveillance, gleaning as much
information as he can in order to prevent hundreds of fully automatic
rifles going out into the streets. Two men on opposite sides of the
law, and only one winner will emerge."Shot Caller" is told from two timelines: the present, and the past
which reveals how Waldau became the ruthless gangster that he is. It is
the past timeline that is the most gripping, showing us a drastically
different man who made a mistake that led to a devastating, downward
spiral of his life. But years in prison has not fully transformed
Waldaucarefully hidden deep within the monster, there is a bit of
humanity left.My most memorable, movie moment of "Shot Caller" is the scene when
Waldau butchers a fellow gangster in the man's home. No fancy
choreography, just someone getting stabbed multiple times until his
life ends."Shot Caller" would have received a higher grade but for the
shenanigans near the end of the movie. **SPOILER ALERT**Waldau hides a
weapon in his anus, and from the time he is captured to the time he is
sent back to his old prison, the weapon is still there? No law
enforcement personnel ever looked up his butt to see if there were
anything hidden there? Also, when Waldau attacked his boss because
Waldau's family were threatened with execution, how does Waldau know
that the hit wasn't already in place? These are big shenanigans, but
the rest of the movie is so good that they didn't damage the movie
much. For those who enjoy a good drama/suspense/prison movie, this one
is definitely for you.Mannysmemorablemoviemoments
