3
Slow and a far cry from furious

Clearly timed, in fact rushed, for the upcoming Halloween holiday (no
big revelation here), this horror-schlock is resembling a typical
holiday souvenir stand: an assortment of cheap, popular items, all
mixed up together without taste or general concept, but everyone that
stops by will find something to one's liking. Vin Diesel and his
helium-soaked voice are sleepwalking through the main role just like
the stand employee, who is in his mind at home with his family, but he
just has to make it through the shift somehow.Diesel makes it, in some sort of brooding, drab performance, thinking
that this is how one portrays a tired old man, which is what his
character is supposed to be. The story that revolves around him is a
convoluted mixture of popular horror motives and ideas from bigger and
lesser films, and first that come to mind are "Highlander", "Blade",
"Underworld", "Mummy" and "Constantine". Really, if you've seen any of
those five - don't bother with this one, it will bore you to untimely
death.If you, however, do wish to pay tribute to the Halloween by seeing a
suitable film, prepare for one that is unevenly and uninspiredly
directed and acted, filmed in a generic, overly dark cinematography
that will from time to time be interrupted by jarringly kitschy and
colorful dream-shots. There may be some art in all that but it is as
nonsensical as all the complicated rules the film throws at the viewer
in many boring expository scenes - which then itself forgets to follow
(the script must have come directly from some goth kid's diary). There
is a couple of twists thrown in to atone for the absence of a proper
culmination. There are some history lessons, just to try to make the
story relevant. There are also Michael Caine and Elijah Wood, making
underwritten and probably expensive cameos. There's the predictable
ending and a set up for the sequel.If they promise the Plague wins the next time, I'm up for it all the
way. Meanwhile, I'm thinking of buying a witch mask and trolling
policemen on the block in it, just to make up for the seriously
underwhelming experience of seeing this.
