10
Laugh out loud funny movie filled with many touching moments that will make you cry!

Guardians Of The Galaxy Vol. 2 is such a glorious celebration of all
that's enjoyable about going to the movies. It makes you feel you've
gotten your money's worth, from the ticket price to all the expensive
food and drink items. Everyone in the theater walked out chatting and
laughing about the movie. I can't think of a way to make a more
enjoyable movie than GOTG 2.From the beginning, the MARVEL STUDIOS logo has changed. While it's
slowly creeping on screen, we used to see comic pages flipping. That's
now replaced with movie footage, and the music is now epic, making the
MS logo feel more classy and majestic.The opening credits scene is just so creative, and a scene like that
could very well be one of the best ending scenes in another movie. But
in GOTG 2, it's just the opening! Looking back on the entire film, I
can't believe in this age where we're all so used to seeing flashy
space and combat action scenes, everything gets better and better as
this movie rolls along towards the ending.This is a really character-driven movie, and every single main actor
gets fantastic screen time. No one is in the background. They all
shine. Jokes are non-stop, and there are WAY more jokes in this sequel.
Some of the humor is so unexpected and wacky that you'll just burst out
loud laughing! You'll hear other people in the theater continue to
laugh as the movie rolls on and you'll laugh again just thinking about
what happened on screen.As funny as this movie gets, you'll be pleasantly blindsided with some
extremely heartwarming scenes between characters. How can a movie make
people laugh so hard, then the next minute have everyone sobbing, or at
least fighting back tears? If you're the type of movie-goer who likes
to brag that you didn't cry through an emotional scene, prepare to get
tested. GOTG 2 has many emotional scenes, and they happen at the
weirdest, most unexpected times. My bet is, you WILL cry at least once.
There's just too many good scenes coming at you and you'll stumble.
This movie is such a rare roller-coaster of emotional ups and downs.
Enjoy the ride! The end credits are filled with things to keep you sitting in your
chair. Don't make the mistake of walking out. There are something like
5 or 6 end scenes dispersed through the credits. You'll see people in
the theater standing to leave, then sitting. Standing again, then
sitting down. There's just so much going on in the end credits!From start to finish, this movie has everything and the kitchen sink
thrown in. It's all bigger, better, funnier and way more emotional than
the first GOTG, and easily the most entertaining thing you might
witness this year in the theater. Don't miss this movie!
