7
Micheal Bay restricting himself to deliver a straight forward, focused movie. A Thrilling and Entertaining watch.

This movie is based on a true story about the attack on an American
embassy and a secret CIA base in Benghazi, Libya, on the 9/11
anniversary in 2012. And how a few numbers of of Ex-Soldiers managed to
repel the attack. Directed by Micheal Bay, I was surprised to see him holding back his
Bay-ism and deliver a straight forward focused film. The story got a
long build up at the start, setting up the location, the characters and
the situation. And then chaos. What I liked most about this film was
the fact that you felt just as lost as the soldiers and people in this
movie. The confusion, the chaos, the uncertainty, it was delivered
quite nicely, creating tension and thrill. There are a lot of characters in the movie, but ultimately it is
focused on these soldiers, and while the movie could have done a better
job developing them, what it did was good enough in a sense that it
worked for the movie. I liked em. Acting varied, with some delivering
pretty good performances. Also, again with Micheal Bay restricting
himself, there were no stupid side plots or cringe worthy romance for
any of the characters. They all had families back home and we got some
moments with them, humanizing the soldiers more. The action was solid. It felt raw and realistic. There were the
occasional Micheal Bay's firework explosions and some exaggerated RPG
moments, but that's about it. Everything else was great. And this is
the movie to watch on a home theater if you own one because sound
effects were terrific. The explosions, the guns firing, the bullet
impacts, it all sounded really great. Soundtrack was good. And the
cinematography was great, it was a good looking movie. The movie strayed away from political stuff, and just focused on the
incident, which made me appreciate it more. The underlying message it
was trying to give might have been too heavy handed at times,
especially at the end, but it was a good one. My issues with the movie, other than the ones already mentioned, were
that the movie was too long. It took about 40 mins for things to get
started and while the build up created the anticipation for what's
about to happen, it got too long and slow in some areas. 20 mins
shorter and it would have been a much tighter and cleaner film. Also,
there are some, few, but some cringe-y scenes attempting to add humor,
which stand out like a sore thumb considering most of the movie has a
serious tone. All in all, it was an entertaining watch and shows Micheal Bay still
can control himself. I hope the dude gives up on Transformers and does
other things, like this, more. Shame that this turned out to be his
least grossing film. Definitely a recommended watch. 7.8/10
