10
Such a powerful film!

Missing child cases are ones that really do send a shiver down the
spine, the uncertainty of the child's whereabouts or whether in fact
they are actually still alive being the major worries. You can't
possibly understand the effect it must have on a family. In Garth
Davis' Lion, we see the effects of such a case on the child rather than
the family left behind. Saroo (Sunny Pawar) is a five-year-old child living in a remote Indian
village with his mother, brother and sister. Spending his days helping
his brother steal coal from trains, Saroo joins his brother for a job
one night but finds himself lost and on a train to Calcutta, nearly
two-thousand kilometres from his home village.Surviving many challenges and meeting various faces, Saroo is
eventually adopted by an Australian couple, John and Sue Brierley
(David Wenham and Nicole Kidman). Twenty-five years later, Saroo (Dev
Patel) decides to track his lost family down.I must start by saying that I absolutely loved Lion, a film that deals
with such a traumatising true story in such a delicate manner. Garth
Davis splits the film into two halves, the first focusing on Saroo as a
five-year-old lost in such a densely populated city and the second
looking at Saroo as a grown man, so far away from the life he left
years before. It is quite tough to watch at times, particularly some
scenes of a young Saroo trying to survive on the streets of Calcutta
however, Davis' film builds to a truly beautiful conclusion that left
me emotionally destroyed.I think the fact that this is a true story played a massive part in the
conclusion having such an impact on me. Davis plays it out brilliantly
and the inclusion of real life footage in the end credits, along with
startling facts about how many children go missing in India, just added
more power to the already powerful film.Lion doesn't just get its power from the story but from the tremendous
performances also. I have always liked Dev Patel as an actor but this
is the first time I've watched him give such a powerhouse of a
performance as a grown up Saroo struggling to cope with tracking down
his lost family. From here, Patel could really go places, starting with
awards recognition in the early new year.Sunny Pawar deserves a special mention for his performance as a young
Saroo, lost and alone in such a unfamiliar place. It's always a risk to
have such a large portion of the film led by such a young actor but
it's ultimately one that pays off greatly in Lion. There's also fine
support on offer from Rooney Mara, Nicole Kidman and David Wenham,
ensuring the quality runs right throughout the film.Lion is a film that I urge you to go and see because a film like this
needs the coverage and its subject matter is something people need to
be made more aware of.
