6
"Pure of heart, dim of wit"

"Pure of heart, dim of wit" is exactly what you get. One-liners and
slapstick comedy galore. I couldn't stop from laughing out loud in
several scenes as these morons continued their idiotic ways. But
idiotic stopped at stupid with some fairly clever lines. I had expected
the Farrelly directors to bring the Stooges into modern times in more
creative ways (at times successful) than they had. A lot of the
expected happened when of lot of the unexpected could have. But that
doesn't stop the "close to the heart" Stooges from making us laugh.I enjoyed how the Farrelly directors included a comparison of today's
crap television to good ol' American traditional television. If you
watch either of the shows compared, be embarrassed. You deserve it!You can't ask for much more when it comes to acting by the Three
Stooges, honestly it was brilliantly executed. Although Will Sasso has
to be shaking his head wondering, "Why do my hands curl up in every
scene?"The cinematography could have used some love, just a little extra to
add to the quality of the film. We could have used some aging, some
finer scenery, and maybe some variety in set.The PG rated comedy brought humor for all ages. From making the old
ladies next to me snort to making the kids behind me kicking my seat
laugh, it had a little bit of everything. But the broad audience appeal
also stretches its ability to deliver a memorable performance. Watch,
you will all forget about it until Blue-Ray (or DVD, no offense)
release and then easily pass it up on the shelves.But was this humor for all ages comedy worth the admission? By the hair
of Curly's chin. You can't roll your eyes because you know what you are
getting into. You will have no choice but to let the Stooges take you
over. Price of admission, sign me up. Anything more, I'm out.Cinematography: 4/10 Writing: 7/10 Acting: 7/10 Overall: 6/10***Take great grandma, she will put you in the will for letting her
relive her wonder years! Ike -Rehash Critics
