2
A Gothic Soap Opera (Spoilers!)

This movie is terrible. It seems like it was made for the sole purpose
of being as weird and as twisted as possible. "You know what's dark? A guy who marries women and kills them for their
money." "You know what's even darker? A guy who does all that because
he's in an incestuous relationship with his older sister." You get the feeling early on that there's something strange between the
brother and sister, and in the back of your mind, you're thinking, "I
really hope this doesn't end up being one of those weird brother-sister
things." And then it does. The most original twist in the movie is that
you're supposed to believe that the sister has killed not only three of
the brother's wives, but also one wife's child--it turns out that the
child is actually the sister's and died from being malformed and sick.Regarding the horror, this movie is not remotely scary. The visuals of
the ghosts cease to be scary when the first one appears. There is so
much CGI put into them that it looks overdone and super fake. Ghosts
need to be done with a light touch because familiarity with monsters
takes away their scariness.As for the acting, it wasn't bad but the only one worth mentioning is
Jessica Chastain, who plays Lucille Sharpe. She's really good as the
creepy, twisted, and perverted older sister.And as for the writing, I never believed that the characters Edith and
Thomas were in love because the courtship part of the story seemed
rushed. And the awkward and dry sex scene did nothing to convince me.Oh, and normal people can't bleed as much as these characters did
without dying. So, is there anything good about the movie? There a few small things:1. Wardrobe: The filmmakers wanted Edith to stand out, not only from
the villains, but also from the side characters. Edith was usually seen
in bright colors and has blond hair; everyone else was in dark colors
and black. 2. Literary References: During the film, there are three references
made to some of the best novelists of the 19th century: Jane Austin,
Mary Shelley, and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Which is strange, because
writing seems to take center stage early on, and is then swept aside
completely in the second act. 3. Paranormal Theory: Early in the film, the character Dr. Alan
McMichael (Charlie Hunnam) discusses how he believes that ghosts are
tied to certain places because of stone or mineral deposits in the
earth. This is an actual theory in the modern ghost hunting community,
but I'm not sure if they were aware of this fact in the Victorian
period.In conclusion, I cannot recommend this film to anyone. It is daytime TV
tripe. Don't go see it.
