8
"Found footage" films have the tendency of being awful, predictable, and nothing but a cheap money grab; Chronicle, thankfully, is different.

Chronicle is a "found footage" film that is similar to Cloverfield, The
Blair Witch Project, and - the infamous - Paranormal Activity series.
Those kinds of films (mainly Paranormal Activity) have a tendency of
being awful, predictable, and nothing but a cheap money grab; Chronicle
,thankfully, is different.Andrew (Dane DeHaan) is a high-school teenager who has decided to make
videos of his life. Through these videos, we find out Andrew is a total
outcast and doesn't have an easy life. Andrew's father is an abusive
drunk, his mother is dieing of cancer, and his cousin, Matt (Alex
Russell), barely tolerates him. One day, While Matt is driving Andrew
back from school, Matt urges Andrew to go to a party with him. Matt
then pleas Andrew not to bring his camera; Andrew doesn't listen. After
being punched in the face by a drunk raver, "the footage" then cuts to
Andrew sitting outside the party crying. Steve (Michael B. Jordan)
walks up to Andrew and tells him that he and Matt have found something
they want him to film. What they find is a huge hole. As Andrew is
filming the hole, an odd sound is being produced from the inside.
Steve, Matt, and Andrew both climb into down hole to see what is. What
they find is ______________________________. Some time later, Andrew,
Matt, and Steve are then shown that they've developed telekinetic
powers (that's when the fun begins). Instead of using their powers to
fight crime, the three - now friends - use their powers to play
practical jokes on people. As their powers get better, so do the camera
angles. Andrew is eventually able to levitate the camera anywhere
imaginable as he's doing anything. It's pretty cool.What amazes me about Chronicle is how well everything has been written.
The writing is very well thought out and so are the three main
characters. It's rare that you see this in any film. It's even rarer
when you see this in a "found footage" film. I'd advise any writer that
plans on writing anything about high-school teenagers to watch this
film; These are how real high- schoolers act. They're not too immature,
they're not too mature. They're teenagers. simple. That's one of the
reasons why I love these characters, I can relate to them. Regardless
of who you are, you can relate to at least one of the three main
characters. As for the other two, you probably know/knew someone who
had similar personality traits. It doesn't hurt either when the three
form a strong friendship with one another. The first hour or so is a
great bromance filmThe effects are pretty good, for the most part, considering Chronicle
is a low-budget thriller. Most of the effects are practical with uses
of some green screen technology. The stunt that looked a little odd to
me was the flying, but you get used to it after a while and accept it
for what it is. Even though some of the effects looked a little
awkward, I have no choice but to respect it, for the fact Chronicle
didn't rely solely on CGI.Dane DeHaan, Alex Russell, Michael B. Jordan give great, convincing
performances. These characters feel real, so you have to give credit to
the three main actors for making them come to life.In case you can't already tell, I really enjoyed Chronicle, and I think
anyone that likes superhero movies will too. Chronicle is the
definition of a great "found footage" film. Chronicle is a fun,
thrilling movie with simple, yet great dialogue that comes with a great
story. Chronicle does a brilliant job at making you feel like you're
part of the movie (I really felt like I was the fourth member of the
crew), and that means something. I give Chronicle a very enthusiastic 4 out of 5.
