7
Gyllenhaal impresses as the least likable character you've seen in a long time.

You leave the movie theatre with a slightly sick feeling of guilt after
watching Nightcrawler. Guilt that you actually enjoyed this rather
original movie-making set in an ethical and moral vacuum. In that sense
the movie is entirely ironic. You shouldn't be enjoying this stuff.It's an exposition of entirely greed-induced (financial and ego driven)
naked ambition that rivals Wolf of Wall Street for it's blithe abandon
of normal ethical practice.Gyllenhaal, as Louis Bloom, almost cadaverous after his dramatic weight
loss for the part, is as unsympathetic a movie character as you've seen
in a very long time. His back story, which is precisely zilch, renders
him a character in search of a meaning. A loner, a drifter, a thief,
unemployed (unemployable is the truth) and entirely without remorse -
emotion for that matter - stumbles upon a freelance career as an, at
first hapless then really rather good, ambulance chasing 'scene of the
crime' news cameraman.Starting with motorway crashes and graduating to suburban crime scenes
(where the threat of middle America being intruded upon by 'Hispanics'
and other Liberal American ethnic minorities) he captures more and more
challenging newsreel material that feeds the sensation-lust of an LA
loser News Station's News Editor, Nina Romina, played deliciously by
Rene Russo.Romina's sponsorship of, and belief in, the expert blagging of Bloom
feeds his desire for greater success and indeed for Romina herself. In
a toe curling 'date' at a camp Mexican restaurant Bloom lays it on the
line with Romina in a scene of toe-curling embarrassment. It's as if
Gyllenhaal is playing for laughs, but he's deadly serious.Throughout, Gyllenhaal commands the screen. The Nightime lighting
constantly picking out his skeletal, eye bulging look that makes him
look like the devil incarnate. This truly is an evil character and
Gyllenhaal's trademark smirk only adds to the perverse sense of evil
pleasure he is gaining as his success mushrooms.A recurring theme in the movie is his watering of a pot plant in his
flat. It's as if it's the only living thing he cares two bucks about.
Certainly his hapless sidekick/assistant Rick, played by Riz Ahmed, has
next to no chance in this little hothouse world of emotion-free
ambition.Gyllenhaal's faux management style 'development' of Rick is at times
darkly amusing but usually just plain vacuous and ironic given that he
draws from real world self help and management lingo that's bad enough
in the corporate world, but downright bizarre in this micro universe.The car chases are gripping edge of seat affairs, the plot, although it
has holes in the final reel (quite big ones I felt) is nevertheless
highly original and unfolds at a steady pace.The conclusion was, to my mind at least, a little disappointing, but
aside from this a good, dark, star vehicle for Jake and possibly a step
towards another best actor nomination.
