3
"We're trudging through the slush..."

Unlike its animated namesake, "The Snowman" is not a good film.
Frustratingly it has all the right ingredients:- A story by bestselling Nordic writer Jo Nesbø; - Gorgeously photogenic snowy scenes of Oslo and Bergen; - A stellar cast (Michael Fassbender ("Alien: Covenant"); Rebecca
Ferguson ("Mission Impossible: Rogue Nation"); J.K. Simmons
("Whiplash"); Toby Jones ("Dad's Army"); Chloe Sevigny ("Love and
Friendship"); Charlotte Gainsbourg ("Independence Day: Resurgence",
very sexy as Fassbender's ex-squeeze) and even Val Kilmer ("Top Gun",
whose mother – interesting fact – is actually Swedish).And while these elements congeal in the snow together quite well as
vignettes, the whole film jerks from vignette to vignette in a most
unsatisfactory way. I haven't read the book (which might be much
better) but the inclusion in the (terrible!) trailers of key scenes
that never made the final cut (where was the fire for example?, the
fish? the man trap?) implied to me that the director (Tomas Alfredson,
"Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy") and screen writing team – Peter
Straughan (also "Tinker, Tailor"), Hossein Amini ("The Two Faces of
January") and Søren Sveistrup (TV's "The Killing") – either didn't have
(or didn't agree on) the direction they wanted the film to go in.Nesbø (and indeed most crime writers these days) litter their work with
damaged cops…. you have to question whether the detective application
form has a mandatory check-box with "alcoholic and borderline psycho"
on it!. This film is no exception. Fassbender plays Nesbø's master
sleuth Harry Hole: an alcoholic insomniac well off the rails between
homicide cases. "If only Oslo had a higher murder rate" bemoans his
boss (Ronan Vibert). He joins forces with newby officer Katrine Bratt
(Rebecca Ferguson), who has her fair share of mental demons to fight,
in investigating a series of missing person/murder cases. The duo
unearth a link between the cases – all happen when the snow starts to
fall and to particular types of women, with the protagonist leaving a
snowman at the scene.The plot is highly formulaic – I guessed who the killer was within
about 20 minutes. But what makes this movie stand out, for all the
wrong reasons, is that it has one of the most stupid, vacuous, flaccid,
inane, ridiculous … (add 50 other thesaurus entries)… endings
imaginable. My mouth actually gaped in astonishment!There are also a surprisingly large number of loose ends you ponder
after the film ends: why the "Snowman"'s fixation with Harry?; what was
with the "Vetlesen cleaner" subplot? How is Star Trek transportation
possible in Norway? (But wait a minute... "Telemark"... "Teleport"...
coincidence???? :-) ).On the plus side, there is some lovely Norwegian drone cinematography –
(by Australian Dion Beebe ("Edge of Tomorrow") – that immediately made
me put "travel by winter train from Oslo to Bergen" on my life- map.
The music by Marco Beltrami ("Logan") is also effective and suitably
Hitchcockian.If you like your films gory, this one is definitely for you, with some
pretty graphic content that (for those who like to cover their eyes) is
cut to so quickly by editors Thelma Schoonmaker ("The Wolf of Wall
Street") and Claire Simpson ("Far From The Madding Crowd") that your
hands won't have time to leave your lap! I remember this being a
feature of a previous Nesbø adaptation (the much better "Headhunters"
from 2011) but here it goes into overdrive.Overall this was a rather disappointing effort that was heading for a
5* rating. But just because of that ending I'm knocking a whole two
stars off!(For the graphical review, please visit bob-the-movie-man.com or check
out One Mann's Movies on Facebook. Thanks.)
