8
Realistic, bleak, but ultimately life-affirming.

Disaster films have an odd reputation, often merely dismissed as
popcorn fodder, so it's strange to have a film billed as such but to
put character and drama over spectacle. Then again, as it's based on a
true story, it's probably unfair to label 'The Impossible' as such a
movie because the plight of the characters is at its heart throughout
the entire duration. Perhaps this film is best described as a family
drama with elements of disaster, then.The Boxing Day tsunami was one of those events that put our lives into
perspective, and the film achieves the same feat. Ewan McGregor and
Naomi Watts play the parents of three children who decide to spend an
exotic Christmas in Thailand. Suitcases are unpacked, presents are
exchanged, but the sense of impending disaster is overwhelmingly
unsettling. When the inevitable does happen, the following 15 minutes
are intense, realistic and terrifying; an onslaught of terrific
practical effects and incredible sound design. However, after that
concentrated outburst, the drama shifts down a gear to a more intimate,
personal level, which is no less frightful. That is why this film shines; it's about the smaller picture. By
focusing on the survival of this one family rather than the scale of
the event itself, a better, and more human, representation of the
disaster is displayed. The performances from the central cast are
nothing short of spectacular, especially Tom Holland, who carries the
film for a hefty chunk of the running time with a gravitas that many
older actors would fail to achieve. Many criticisms have been made in the press about the anglicisation of
the story; in reality, the family was Spanish. To me, that seemed to be
a decision to globalise this story to the maximum amount of people, a
decision that was warranted in my eyes. Thus, the main issue with the
film was the score to be unnecessarily overriding in certain scenes,
adding an unwanted sentimentality to the film. The scenes which worked
best were confrontational, uncompromising and, you guessed it, without
a swelling orchestra. Nevertheless, this is a minor gripe considering
that this is a film where tears are wholeheartedly justified.My Blog - Celluloid Ramblings . blogspot. co . uk
