4
It's like they deliberately screwed up the science

I can forgive the unanswered questions about the motives and biology of
the aliens in Prometheus. After all, they're aliens! What I can't
forgive is the awful, awful protocols shown by the human scientists,
technicians, and spaceship crew throughout the movie.To begin with, a legitimate scientific expedition would have started by
releasing weather and observation satellites to orbit the planetoid for
weeks, perhaps months before Prometheus ever landed. This would
determine the most likely places to hunt for aliens, rather than just
luckily finding alien structures. Then, the small, remote-controlled
probes would be sent into the alien installations to map them
thoroughly and take air and soil samples. When pictures of the dead
aliens came back, the scientist would spend many hours determining
likely scenarios and procedures to avoid a similar fate before setting
a foot inside.The biggest mistake the movie makes, though, is something I haven't
seen discussed anywhere. People have written about the folly of the
crew taking off their space suit helmets without checking for microbes
or other contaminants. It's not just the air quality that could cause
illness or injury. What hasn't been mentioned is the danger of the
humans contaminating the alien environment. Good scientists are
concerned to the point of paranoia about destroying a pristine
environment and invalidating their results. This is why Mars rovers are
sterilized before they leave Earth. Once an alien planet is
contaminated, there's no way to know what's alien and what's not. The
crew of Prometheus would have to undergo rigorous decontamination
procedures both when exiting the ship and on their return.Another question that I haven't seen discussed elsewhere is why would
an expedition as well-financed and equipped as Prometheus not have more
than one robot? Weyland would want to have as much redundancy as
possible to maximize success. Moreover, the humans would need to be
cross trained, just as astronauts are now, so that in case of injury or
illness there would be someone to fill in the gaps. This goes for the
scientists, flight crew, security, and every other function.Wouldn't Prometheus be crewed with the absolute best people in every
role? People who knew what the mission was and who had trained together
for months before leaving Earth. There is no excuse for second-best in
a first-contact mission that's exploring a dangerous alien world.It's one thing to have a haunted-house movie filled with naïve
teenagers, but it's quite another to see supposed top scientists do
dumb things. With a little more thought, Prometheus could have
addressed the plot holes I and others have noted, and as a result been
a tighter film with more tension and surprises.
