1
If I wasn't with company I would have walked out

*This review contains spoilers*Im genuinely unsure how this is being rated so high, nothing in the
film is original, and it would sit quite well in the musical sing along
section on.. Awful from start to end.. To start with barely any of the casting was a good choice. Casting
Spacey was a huge mistake, while I couldn't fault his acting his script
and role *literally* could have been lifted from his 2001 lead as Micky
Rosa in '21' Why on earth he was he cast again for an identical part Im
unsure.Such classics like: Gone in 60 seconds, Drive, Transporter.. these have
older,gritty more experienced actors as the lead role, this I
understand. To have baby faced Ansel Elgort was the biggest negative
thing for me.For a character which has struggled with personal loss, is being forced
to drive, even in emotional scenes, non of this shows, it only further
emphasises his incompetence as for the lead role. His whole role was cringe worthy, every that came out of his mouth was
either poorly acted or sits well in a musical. Dire script. The opening
scene set the scene for the whole film, I loved-up flick
romance/musicale.WIth regards to the driving aspect of the film, the whole thing is just
shot for the purpose of product endorsement in a way which isn't
noticeable or existent in genuine driving classics.I literally can go on,the film try's to be funny but fails at every
step, the fight scenes and choreography is basically ripped, the scene
where Eiza González whips out her gun has been done a thousand times,
and better, in other female roles such as Trinity in the Matrix or more
notably by Angelina Jolie her films.Heck it just feels nothing is original, just the usual Hollwood, I mean
even the typography of 'Driver' is pretty much ripped from Ubisofts
game franchise Driver.Jon Hamm's death scene draaaaggggssss ooooon for a good 40 minutes,
jeez its about as crass as a transformer action scene.I cant write a review without mentioning the music, the music score is
an integral part of any film, and is there to compliment, or to set the
scene or emotion. Here the film is basically the music with actors
signing and dancing along to it for 2 draining hours. Music score
should compliment a film not be an overly in your face feature of the
film. This is where the likes of Drive excels, incredible, how this is
scoring higher is a phenomenon I don't understandWouldn't be surprised if there was an adaptation to Broadway where it
should burn in its own awfulness.Baby Driver coming as a singalong to your nearest cinema.Maybe I'm being cynical and more critical of films these days, I mean
the countless of 10* reviews leaves me in the minority here, but
really; that was an appalling, unoriginal attempt of a driving film
which I hope flops the test of time among genuine classics.
