5
Relatively Mild Horror With Awesome Creature Effects

Spring starts off as a pretty standard travelogue romance, in which we
find ourselves following our protagonist- Evan- as he flees to Italy
after nearly killing a guy in a bar fight back in California.In a similar vein as Afflicted (less the found footage element), Evan
(like the main character of the aforementioned film) meets a girl at a
bar while travelling, picks her up, and will never be the same because
of it.At first things go great. Their romance flourishes and he remains
unaware of her true nature as...well...some sort of beast. A succubus?
A vampire? A werewolf (or cat)? A combination of all three perhaps?
Hard to tell exactly what she qualifies as at first.All we know is that she is a genetics student who seems to transform
into something sinister, unless she can inject herself with a substance
that wards off the transformation into her bestial form- which renders
her insatiably carnivorous and averse to sunlight. At times, she even
goes through an elaborate ritual that seems to cause her to molt. Yet
what she actually is remains unclear.Eventually he walks in on her at the wrong time and discovers her
unbelievable secret. He sees her in her true form...and...well...it's
not like anything you would imagine. Let's just say it's Zulawski
inspired (was that a Zulawski DVD menu screen on the TV at one
point?!?).Despite happening upon her in such a bizarre form, Evan manages to keep
his cool and injects her- returning her to her human form.His reaction to this whole incident manifests in a similar way as it
does for us viewers- an insatiable curiosity about what she actually
is. Yet he doesn't flee in terror. He sticks around and tries to help
her- or perhaps just figure out what the hell it is he just witnessed.--SPOILER-- She comes clean and reveals to him that she is, in fact, a
creature that is thousands of years old; who will return to a previous
evolutionary form if she is unable to consume or inject herself with
stem cells that will ward off the bizarre transformation process.Hilariously, despite being privy to all this...he still wants to keep
her around as his girlfriend- especially after figuring out he has
impregnated her. That's true love, I guess.Throughout the remainder of the film, she breaks down the nature of her
existence; details some of her past experiences; and describes what he
has to look forward to granted they decide to go through with the
pregnancy.There is a slight twist to all of this, but it never fully culminates
before the film ends...so it leaves you wondering...or sets itself up
for a sequel.Either way...as far as horror films go, this one is pretty mild. The
lure here is definitely the creature effects- which are excellent. The
main creature (when he first discovers her in her bestial form) is
pretty f*cking awesome; and at one point there is a transformation
scene reminiscent of the one in American Werewolf In London (which is
badass). The rest of the film keeps you entertained enough- if only
because you retain a curiosity about the nature of her existence as a
monster. But overall it's nothing particularly special, and gets a meh
from me.5 out of 10.
