1
Teenaged gallows humor rated for adults, soaked up by kids

Fiction is a vehicle capable of transporting the reader, the viewer
across spaces fantastic, gulfs of the never before expected - indeed on
a journey limited only by the fuel of storyteller's imagination. As
readers of novel's, watchers of movies we fiction addicts have crossed
some strange territory, toured places dark as they were fascinating.
Thanks to the minds of writers and film makers, we've transcended death
and lived scores of made-up lives alongside countless characters of
every stripe and in doing so, often found some small unpolished gleam
we'd overlooked in our own realities waiting for us after we've put
down that page turner or exited the theater.Despite the wild turn of the writer's imagination which so often
effectively convinces us to abandon the laws of our mundane world for a
temporary belief of the one he's created for us, the best fiction
anchors itself to, firmly grounds itself in the real and in doing so
makes those crazy daydream flights of the impossible we take with the
storyteller, all the more impactful because before dropping us off in
Metropolis or Gotham City, the best fiction makes us first journey
through the world we live in everyday to get there.'Kick Ass 2' barrages the viewer for one hundred and three minutes with
scenarios so implausible, the world it is set in - an actual city -
serves only to mock its take after take on the ridiculously imagined
capabilities of its characters and both theirs and its minor players'
reactions to just about every hysterically nonsensical act of violence
committed.The writer without realization gives his work a life of its own, an
ability to transport those who consume his story again and again to
places glazed with reality or wholly fictional, to meet people who only
exist within the confines of those realms and thereafter within us, his
audience. Unfortunately, these days and perhaps since storytelling has
been around to some extent, the story strives hardest to justify
itself, to celebrate its own existence and to quickly hammer down its
justification for mass distribution.What a given lover of fiction finds amazing will indeed often vary from
viewer and reader to viewer and reader - such goes without much
thought. However, certain themes and depictions stories intimate to us,
show us can be universally judged as good or terrible. Perhaps not so
in a generational context as what one age group celebrates, another
will find disgusting.In 'Kick Ass 2' most every theme and visual intimation is arguably a
turn-off - unless you've while viewing it - turned of your wits,
intellect and moral compass. The violence in and of itself is not the
issue ... this reviewer is a horror, science fiction, action film
fanatic which requires a hardy appetite for tragedy and violence. The
problem with 'Kick Ass 2' is its exploitation of the innocent as
vehicles for its smut, and depiction of kids as engines of homicidal or
bone breaking destruction.The message 'Kick Ass 2' tells its viewers (millions of kids out there)
that slaughtering other human beings - if they're the bad guys - is
morally acceptable and cool. The film has its main characters break
oaths, take new ones and break them as well and then its narrative
attempts to justify the lies, deceit and misdirection as a setup for
bloodshed by adolescents.That's all pretty heavy, right? Most would defend the message or the
plot of the film as being just for fun. Unfortunately the movie takes
itself very seriously despite the ceaseless gallows humor, and it
really adores itself for what it is - a knock-off of a gory action film
targeted at teens and even younger kids.Sure, I watched all the R rated horror and action movies I could rent
and sneak into the VCR when I was a kid. Did all the gore and violence
really scar my young mind? Probably not. However the vast majority of
the gory, nasty Hollywood output of the eighties was not targeted at
kids, nor did it depict kids carrying it out. It's a new thing, and I
don't much care for it.Yes, 'Kick Ass 2' will entertain you to a varying degree and based on
your age, will either feel like a guilty glimpse into the tactless
future of the action genre and film making in general, or will look
really awesome, dude.Give this one a pass, unless you want gawk guiltily at a movie
equivalent of a grisly car accident.
