5
Hugely disappointing compared to the classic TV show, and is hugely problematic as a standalone film

While it had a bit of a slow start, with technical limitations being
obvious and the characters not being as interesting, from the moment it
switched to colour and introduced its most iconic character Barnabas
Collins (unforgettably played by Jonathan Frid) the 1966 'Dark Shadows'
is a classic.It is easy to see why it was so popular back in its day, and it is
equally easy to see why it is remembered so fondly now. Despite its
flaws (which were forgivable in a way), this reviewer spent many days
and hours watching it with sheer joy, it really helping me get through
many stressful and mentally straining times this year at music college
(though there were many great times too, and saw a huge progression and
several seemingly impossible achievements).Sadly, this 2012 film version of 'Dark Shadows' was hugely
disappointing. As an adaptation of the show, it just doesn't compare
and understandably can (and has been) be seen as a travesty to die-hard
fans. Tim Burton and Johnny Depp apparently claim to be fans of 'Dark
Shadows', but to me that wasn't obvious at all. There was more of a
sense that Burton hadn't even seen the show, seeing as the tone and
spirit feels completely wrong, or he thought he could improve upon it.On its own as a film, it has its good points but several major flaws
that to be honest for this reviewer were more obvious. It is a shame as
I am a fan of Burton's 80s and 90s stuff, especially 'Edward
Scissorhands' and 'Ed Wood' which are two of my all-time favourites,
but after his career low-point 'Planet of the Apes' he became
hit-and-miss. While it is better than 'Planet of the Apes', along with
'Charlie and the Chocolate Factory' and 'Alice in Wonderland' 'Dark
Shadows' is very much a lesser effort from Burton.There are good things. It does look great, with splendidly Gothic and
vibrantly colourful sets, wonderful and atmospheric use of colours,
effectively ghoulish make-up and appropriately kooky costumes that
suited the characters very well, while it's beautifully and stylishly
photographed as well. The music score is groovy, rousingly
orchestrated, haunting and a long way from forgettable or generic, if
not one of Danny Elfman's best or most inspired scores, with some
clever song choices. There are some amusing, well-written lines in the
script, loved the line about Alice Cooper and it is most successful
when Barnabas is struggling to fit in, and a few of the cast acquit
themselves well.Johnny Depp is no Jonathan Frid and he has given better performances
(though also much worse, it is one of his better performances in any of
his later collaborations with Burton), but he is clearly having a lot
of fun as Barnabas without overdoing it and is one of the most involved
members of the cast, he also is very charismatic. Michelle Pfeiffer is
one of the most successful at injecting a genuine and faithful
personality, while Eva Green is both sexy and intense. Cameos by
Christopher Lee and Alice Cooper are well-utilised.Unfortunately, a number of the cast don't come off well. Jackie Earl
Haley, who is very good at being menacing and sometimes low-key if he
needs to be, looked bored in a role that is so much in the background
that there was almost no need for him. Helena Bonham Carter overdoes it
and comes over as out of place, while Chloe Grace Moretz is irritating
in a negatively stereotypical role. Much of the acting is either
over-compensated and bland, being able to do very little to nothing
with their dull and often unrecognisable in personality characters, and
while it was interesting to see Frid his appearance is far too short to
leave a lasting impression. The chemistry between the characters, one
of the show's biggest strengths, is barely there.'Dark Shadows' script has its moments, but these moments are too
sporadic. Tonally it is very unfocused and muddled too often, it rarely
seems to know whether to be eccentric comedy or full-blown melodrama.
It attempts to do both (amongst others) and never completely succeeds
at either, the comedy is too sporadic and can be childish and overdone
and the melodrama is unmoving and overwrought. Story-wise it's a mess,
it never really comes to life, has twists that come out of nowhere and
are completely misplaced (especially the werewolf subplot), parts that
drag endlessly and contribute very little to the plot and parts that
looked alright on paper but executed in a half-baked way.As a result, the Gothic atmosphere is almost completely lost, with it
only being obvious in the production values, while the sex scene
choreographed to Barry White is too broad and overly-wild and the
ending is overblown to ridiculous extremes. Burton's direction does
well with the style is but severely lacking in the story and the
substance, where there is a complete lack of heart and soul.Overall, not awful but disappoints hugely both as a standalone and
especially as an adaptation of a classic show. 5/10 Bethany Cox
