10
The Big Sick

I think that it can be safely said that pulling off a great, or even a
good comedy takes a lot of talent and a lot of hard work because you
not only have to appeal to a small base, but in order to make a
successful film work, usually it has to be fairly accessible and you
have to have strengths within the film to propel it along such as great
comedic delivery by your actors as well as having a razor sharp script,
or a least a script that knows how to both tell a good story and yet be
very humorous in the meantime. There have been many great comedic films
over the decades and some would probably fall into my own brand of
comedy that I personally favour which would tend to be a bit drier, or
have a least some kind of observational, or even neurotic, or self
deprecating humour involved in it. Unfortunately a lot of the comedies
today, or at least what is considered to be on everybody's radar, or
considered "the next big thing" usually escapes me as today's sitcoms
on television I can't stand and it leaves me missing the great comedic
legends such as the television productions of Norman Lear in the 1970's
such as All in the Family, Maude, Good Times and One Day at a Time.
These were shows that knew how to tell a good story, were downright
hilarious at times and also what I think was really fascinating was how
those shows captured both the mood and events of the times that they
were portraying. Such as political opinions, racial attitudes, poverty
and the list goes on and on. I wish today's shows and movies too would
learn, or take a page from these old shows and make a biting yet
fascinating look at today's world and the events going on instead of
just endless jokes involving profanity, scatological humour, or things
involving, or around perversity. This new film, The Big Sick proves to
be the new reigning champion in today's comedy film because it works so
successfully on a number of different levels. It accomplishes the task
of being a comedy because it is at times very funny and there were
several laugh out loud moments during the film and also some small
moments where I laughed inwardly and probably had a big smile on my
face. The film kept the crude jokes and language to a minimum (yes,
they are still there, but not thankfully the main goal of the movie)
and instead it uses these very witty jokes alongside telling a story
that when you come right down to it is a story of great depth and a
truly insightful and yet honest look at modern relationships and just
love in general. The film tells a good comedic story and has lots of
laughs, but yet it also pulls off the tricky balancing act of adding
drama and even some sadness into the mix with this comedy and yet it
all feels so natural and like these events could be going on in our
very own lives (probably with a few variables here, or there), but the
film successfully allows us not just to laugh at these characters, but
also allows us to empathize and feel their sadness, joy, grief and a
whole gamut of emotions throughout the course of the film's running
time. The film is based on a true story of it's main star Kumail
Nanjiani and he also co-wrote the film with his wife, Emily V. Gordon
and we cheer for these two during the course of the film and even if we
have a sneaking suspicion of how it will all turn out, it still allows
for plenty of moments of both laughs and sometimes coming close to
tears as well. The Big Sick also commendably shows relationships and
finally gets the message across to audiences that today people truly do
take relationships too flippantly where there really sometimes does
need to be some effort involved and when we as people engage in one
night stands, or brief affairs, is that really love, or does it just
end up hurting us and making us all the more vulnerable in the end? We
as people need to evaluate our relationships and what we think about
love and what it truly means to have a healthy and functioning
relationship. As with anything worthwhile this can take work and a fair
bit of effort, but I think most people can tell you that the end result
is worth it. The acting by the main stars and supporting are amongst
the best if not the best performances by an ensemble cast I have seen
so far this year and the writing by Gordon and Nanjiani has depth,
laughs, sadness and true heart to it that not only makes it a true
winner as a comedy, but in a range of different categories and one of
the most perspective and yet also effective looks on relationships and
love to come out in awhile. Truly one of this year's best films.
