6
It is funny, it is action-packed, it makes not much sense

"Ant-Man" is a nice change of pace from all the Marvel Universe movies
that we have been getting in this 2010s. Instead of being a serious
movie, or one packed with superheroes fighting against yet another city
that is falling on their heads, it centers on a very simple idea: a
heist. And it does a good enough job in making it fun, but it also has
a very uneven tone and doesn't make any sense throughout the whole
movie.Dr. Hank Pym was Ant-Man many many years ago, but decided to give up
and hide his suit behind a safe in his house. But when his former pupil
Darren Cross comes close to creating something similar with a new suit
called Yellowjacket, he knows he has top Cross. And he decides to get
the help of Scott Lang, a former convict, to steal the new suit. Will
Scott Lang help Dr. Hank Pym and become the new Ant-Man? And will they
be in time to stop Darren Cross?The movie follows the 101 heist book from beginning to the end, but
mixed with the superhero formula. You have the rag-a-tag team of losers
that helps the hero, the old person with the info and the mission, the
other one that wants to be the hero (in this case Dr. Hank Pym's
daughter Hope)... It is not very original, but it is fast-paced enough
that you won't even notice. And the acting is good enough (even if the
direction comes and goes). The plot development is OK, and as it
doesn't have so much overlap with other Marvel movies, it can stand on
its own two feet without much problems. And it tries to be funny (too
much), and has some nice jokes to keep things easy and not very
serious.On the other hand, it makes no sense whatsoever (it looks as it had a
half-baked script), and as said, as the direction come and goes, it
falls into some empty moments that distract from the movie. The worst
sin, though, it is its over-reliance on special effects, especially in
the third act, with way too much CGI that wasn't necessary. It is a
problem many of the superhero movies seem to have: an overlong third
act with just explosions, punches and things flying around. At least
this time they put some humour, but it is still way too long.All in all, not the greatest superhero movie ever, but one fun and
totally enjoyable.
