9
With the Action of Marvel, Emotions of Disney, and Comedy of Both, Big Hero 6 is a fantastic film for anyone.

Back in 2009, Disney purchased Marvel Comics for four billion dollars.
Shocking and surprising the world, many fans of both sides were curious
whether Disney would make an animation film based on a group of
characters from the comics. Three years later, Director Don Hall
approached John Lasseter on making a film with Marvel Characters and
found the Big Hero 6, a comic book series that even the most well known
of comics didn't know who they were. In fact they were so obscure that
Marvel themselves even forgot that they had the characters.Marvel gave Disney the liberty to change the characters so that they
could be seen as a Disney Animation Film. And the result is simply
refreshing.Big Hero 6 is a beautiful film, showcasing how much animation has
become. The east and west coast mash up of San Fransokyo combines to
make such a spectacular scenery, that the city may as well be a
character to the film.The cast is also fun to watch. One annoyance films try to do is by
shoving the diversity of characters in your face. Big Hero 6 doesn't do
that, instead the focus is on the characters themselves and not the
diversity, making it enjoyable to watch. One of the biggest highlights
is the girls of the cast. I took my 3 nieces with my friends and I, and
they loved how they were smart, enjoyable and didn't need to fall for a
man. The cast is truly relatable, whether you are precise like Wasabi,
positive like Honey Lemon or just a guy who loves media like Fred.Of course the star of the film is the robot of Baymax. Any scene that
he is in steals the show, whether it is his introduction or his care
for Hiro and Company.The Villain by far is one of the best villains in recent Disney
history, he doesn't sing, dance or monologue, he simply gets the job
done.The film showcases the action greatly by giving large scopes and music
that fits exceptionally well. Emotionally, the film captures the
audience by showcasing the bond of brotherhood between Hiro and his
older brother Tadashi, as well as his friend Baymax who is like a
Surrogate brother to our main hero.A strong lesson in this film, is that family can be more than blood
related, you have friends, who become part of that. That really showed
how much I cared for the loved ones around me, especially my older
brother who is in the military, creating robots and fixing medical
equipment.If there was one complaint I would give, I would've like to see a
little bit more about the rest of the team. Other than that, Big Hero 6
is a heartwarming tale that captures something for the entire family.Big Hero 6 is another showing that Disney can continue to make great
films after the juggernaut that was Frozen. This film showcases that
the Disney Revival (Films such as The Princess and the Frog, Tangled,
Wreck-it-Ralph and Frozen) is not over yet, and I cannot wait to see
what the next film has to offer.
