4
Not Vaughn & Wilson's best work together by a long stretch.

Vince Vaughn and Owen Wilson have starred together in classic comedies
such as Starsky and Hutch and Wedding Crashers. Director Shawn Levy has
reunited them again in the latest American comedy The Internship which
centres around two salesmen (Vaughn and Wilson) whose careers have been
torpedoed by the digital age. Through enrolling at a University, they
find their way into an internship opportunity at Google where they must
compete against some of the brightest young students in the country in
order to get a shot at employment.The Internship's running time is 119 minutes and it ran in 3 stages.
The first half an hour struggled to get you engaged in the film or the
characters at all and was lacking the crucial element: comedy. Even a
cameo appearance from the brilliant Will Ferrell was just a desperate
attempt to get a laugh but the scenarios just didn't work. The second
stage is where the film picks up some credibility as you do begin to
get into the story and the tempo picks up along with the humour. It's
typical Vince Vaughn comedy when he's picking apart the head of the
Internship program Mr Chetty (Aasif Mandvi) or interacting with his
designated group to complete the assignments that are all social
outcasts yet, ironically, have an unbelievable night out filled with
hilarious antics. Owen Wilson, meanwhile, is trying to woo executive
Dana (Rose Byrne) in his usual charming ways. Unfortunately though the
comedy doesn't last and we are back to a slow, dragged out finish.Certain characters in The Internship are spot on however in how society
works today. The group consisting of our two main stars also has an
Asian American named Yo-Yo who is home-schooled by an overbearing
mother, an Indian girl called Neha who is into nerd related fantasies
(and that's all they are), Stuart who is just constantly on his phone
and rarely speaks and the team leader Lyle who overcompensates for his
insecurities by trying to act hip and cool.Yet again another reasonable idea for a comedy but it falls miserably
short of the classics that we all love. The incredibly complex industry
that is Google offers too much of a formulaic script for Vaughn and
Wilson to thrive.
