1
How is MI5 not rated a zero?

This is the first review I have ever done on IMDb...not because I don't
like watching films..in fact, I adore films. Rather, I normally don't
review just because I put a premium on my time, and don't want to spend
time repeating what others may have already said about a given film;
until today, that is. In my inaugural review, I was very motivated (I
mean incensed) to write this review now having come back for the
cinema, freshly infuriated in the realization that I can't get 2.5
hours of my life back after watching MI-5. I read glowing reviews
before going to the film, to which I am now wondering if I saw the same
film others who reviewed this film as "highly enjoyable". I am beyond
puzzled how this film got good reviews, unless it is from reviewers who
get easily bamboozled by special effects to forgive the need for a
plot, or work for the makers of the film, or who are not of this earth.
The planet to which these people who did liked this poor excuse for a
"film" I do not know. Yes, I knew it would be an action film, and yes I
knew one has to suspend disbelief to enjoy a film like this, but
despite these prerequisites being in place in my mind going into the
theater, this film content was so vacant and vapid it boggles my mind
that I sat through its entirety and didn't walk out mid-film. The plot
was not in the slightest way possible to follow, and the reviewers
shouldn't confuse plot complexity (which a good story can have)with the
nonsensical incongruity of this film. Tom Cruise--who was truly
outstanding in Jerry Mcquire,the Firm, Vanilla Sky and Eyes Wide Shut--
was hardly that as an international spy. Mr Baldwin--another
outstanding actor and wonderful in the Royal Tannenbaums and Blue
Jasmine--but his role in this film was completely under-utilized. The
other actors were alright, but its just that the plot and its
presentation was just insulting to any intelligence. Endless product
placements for BMW, and then when the locale of different places were
indicated when they showed in an areal pan shot its a bit much to say
show the US Congress and Washington Monument, combined with the need to
type in the upper right corner..."Washington D.C.", just to make it
look official and inform us that we are in Washington D.C. just in case
one didn't know..I can't remember if the pan shot of Big Ben was
accompanied by the words "London, England". If you are looking for a
similar action/conspiracy spy film with slick international intrigue
with believable characters, I highly recommend "The International" out
a few years back. In sum, please, save your time, stay at home and
watch paint dry for a more redeeming experience.
