1
Pew, Pew, and with a dash of boredom placed on a pedestal

Such an awful wreck! There I said it. These marvel films are becoming a
huge bore and nevertheless have disappointed anyone even bothering to
consider that maybe one day Hollywood will create a stellar film. But
this?! This!? Garbage? Filled, to-the-lid with CGI! The typical
stereotypes blown over proportions and yet people still go to these
theaters and pay for this crap and still LIE to themselves and honestly
say that it was a "fantastic" and "great" and "awesome" A film that
would put a psychologist laughing maniacally in their leather armchair.
The "Ten out of Ten" reviews are being given out like candy from these
people. Were the characters bad? Yes. How many? Out of the guardians,
it's obvious out of the five, there's Groot, the tree humanoid
incapable of having a conversation, but don't worry it can understand
what you're saying until of course, the record of the Idiot starts to
play and Groot marches off and ruins your pitch perfect plan. He's the
cgi character crutch. Crutch? How exactly? Simple when there's a break
in the scene, here comes Groot and then we say..."okay Groot, perform
your thing and then maybe even add a homage to the Hulk?" Rocket
Raccoon, what a mess isn't he? Both as a character and the fact that
most of the emotion in this film came from the animated Raccoon. How
many scenes will star him seething at the audience? As if his problems
are towards everyone? What's even worse is the fact everyone is
laughing at him in real life, there's no respect for him outside the
film. Oh, and where's his real accent? Though I would have to say he's
not the character that ruined the movie, what a surprised. In the fight
of Man versus CGI, cgi wins in having a character outperform it's
humanoid actors. And what of Quill, Gamora, and Draxx? David Bautista
as Draxx was actually the better of the three, in the overall
performance (if any) Why? Well, you'll be sharing this characters
maniacal laughter once you've realized you wasted valuable devotion for
a franchise whose focus is better spent on a festival of explosions
rather than a film focusing on Quality. Oh, but wait! Quill and his
quirks and Gamora as the feminism object! Dun, Dun, Dun! The perfect
trio nowadays are the idiots and the friendly brutes and the
threatening but soft spot woman! Chris Pratt and Zoe Saldana... WHAT
COULD GO WRONG...oh I don't know... Let's start predicting before we
start watching the film... Is there a sex scene? It's PG-13, so no, but
is there a RomCom kiss scene? You BETCHA! Ah, what a romanticism of a
film! Please let me just change my rating from 6 to ZEROIf you expect a disappointment, you're welcome. If you're an oblivious
fanatic that just loves hearing and reading the same regurgitated
lines, you're in for a whirlwind!Good Luck Marvel in your festival of delusion! May the farce be with
you!
