9
An incredibly intense thriller

Fede Alvarez just gave Green Room a run for its money with Don't
Breathe, an incredibly intense film and glorious exercise in suspense.
It's one of the best studio-produced thrillers I've seen in years. The
premise is simple: A group of teens plans to break into a blind man's
house to steal his money. Only thing, the old man is more adept than
they realize. While the setup is a little too pedestrian, albeit
economical, once the story gets rolling, the film doesn't let up,
running at a lean 88 minutes. Other than that, Don't Breathe is best
viewed going in knowing as little as possible.This is Alvarez's first film in three years since his violent and solid
remake of Evil Dead, and it is with this sophomoric debut that
solidifies the genre filmmaker as someone with obvious talent.
Inspirations are drawn from the best - Hitchcock, Fincher, and Wait
Until Dark are a few - but Alvarez provides his own unique vision that
truly makes the film his own. Like the masters before him, Don't
Breathe is purely cinematic, relying less on dialogue and more on
visual storytelling and sound to drive the film. The cinematography is
amazing as well as the creative sound design, so much so they are
characters within the film themselves.The cast, while small, is great too, including Jane Levy, who can
pretty much be titled this generation's scream queen after this and
Evil Dead. Dylan Minnette is good in his role as well, providing enough
sympathy for his character. Both young actors are put through hell, and
their physical performances sell their tumultuous ordeal convincingly.
However, it is Stephen Lang who is the film's shining beacon. As the
antagonist, Lang is instantly memorable and frightening, an
intimidating force that permeates throughout the film even in scenes
without his presence.If there's one gripe about the film, there's a plot twist that doesn't
quite work, but that itself is a minor complaint compared to the many
things the film gets right and does so well. I won't say more. Don't
Breathe is a technical achievement, the rare studio film that actually
pushes what film can do as a medium. However, like with Green Room, try
not to get caught up in the hype, even with my glowing review. Set your
expectations appropriately, and remember to avoid watching the trailer.
