2
No charm, no wits, no drama, nothing

This is one of my most boring and horrible experiences in cinema. At first I thought it was just going to be a little generic and
predictable, but mostly harmless. A sub-par version of "Driving Miss
Daisy" and "The Devil wears Prada". Then, it entered the second part, and everything went to hell.
Seriously, the last hour of this film felt like 4 or 5, easily, with
stupid situations going absolutely nowhere, horrendous dialogues, no
character development, no change at all in any of them, and lots of
cryngy moments. To summarize it, this film had so many sub-plot going on all at once
that it couldn't decide what type of film it was. It was not a comedy,
it was not a drama, it was not a romance, it had no meaning, no pay-
off, nothing to say about old people working and their impact on their
life and the effect on the younger generations, except for a few jokes
at the beginning. De Niro character was way too happy to need to work
there in the first place, and was this "angelic" character that
everyone loves, and Hathaway was at most a stressed-out woman, nowhere
near as a bad person or someone rude to her employees. In the end, the
characters almost didn't change at all. At most, Anne Hathaway got to
relax a bit, but that's pretty much it. There were no character arcs
for any of them, and no one learns anything or changes in any way. The
husband/boyfriend (don't remember if they were married or not...) is a
terrible person at the beginning and was just exactly the same at the
end, the little girl "struggle" to not see enough of her mom went
absolutely nowhere, neither how the younger interns dealt with their
lives... This movie was horrible, with its stupid music underlining every little
moment, with its horrible pacing that made the last hour feel like at
least four, with its horrible message about relationship, with all his
terrible cliché on old people and working women, and people in the
larger sense. There was no heartwarming moments at all, no character felt vulnerable
in any way, or relatable at all. The dialogues were tremendously bad,
going absolutely nowhere, bringing us nothing, no wit or enjoyment or
comedy. Which is very bad for a film resting entirely on people
talking.One of the worst piece of trash I've seen in my life. PS: I love Anne Hathaway and respect De Niro, and I enjoyed "The
Holyday" from this director, so it has nothing to do with any prior
prejudice against anyone in this film. If anything else, Hathaway and
De Niro are the ones that made me going to this movie. Thank you, guys,
really. Still like you though, actors still got to eat. Still...
