7
The Man with the Iron Fists

Before I entered the theater to watch Rza's movie "The Man with the
Iron Fists", I had a couple of expectations for it. From only seeing
the trailer and no review on the movie, It seemed to me that this was
going to be a throwback to older martial arts/kung fu style of fighting
movies. After seeing that Quentin Tarantino produced the film, it made
me even more excited and could not wait to find out where this movie
might go. From what I know this Rza's first film he has ever directed
by himself. So, I was interested to see what he brings to the table.As the intro of the movie starts playing I get this weird feeling that
this might turn out to be a wreck. But, as it plays on I find out what
kind of goals they were going for in the making of this. The overall
art style through the movie ended up blowing me away. This movie looks
astounding almost the whole way through it. I think that is one of the
main things they were going for and you can definitely tell it has a
Quentin Tarantino feel to it. The Characters and scenery have great
originality and a overwhelmingly awesome feel to them. Most of the
acting was actually pretty good and had some big name actors like Lucy
Lu and Russell Crowe. I had a little problem caring for the main plot
but, each characters stories were interesting to say the least.The thing that made this movie even better was the soundtrack. It is
mix of slow jams, rock, Chinese oriented, old west, and hip hop. It
just gave the movie an over all great vibe and was satisfying. The
sound effects were overall decent and did not sound to fake or stupid
to ruin my experience. Most of the acting was great and only a few
actors were noticeably bad.Now I know what most people are wondering about is the action and
violence in the movie. I can say that it is a great action oriented
movie and has plenty of great fighting scene. The first half of the
movie to me is the better half when it came to the fighting scenes. It
was thrilling to see them flying through the air kicking each others
asses. The problem I had with the second half though, was the amount of
CGI they used and I'm not saying CGI is a bad thing either. It just
felt that they used to much of it towards the end and it seemed
different from the first half.Most people are probably expecting a gore fest of a movie sense Quentin
Tarantino has his name on it. Which is definitely a bad thing in my
opinion. But, after watching it I did not feel that it had as much as I
was expecting. Don't get me wrong though, it is still a violent movie
and there is scenes where it gets particularly gory. There is plenty of
blood to enjoy and I think they did a great job.I got a lot of joy out this film and that is good for being Rza's first
main stream movie. The overall main plot was unfortunately not that
good of an experience for me and they did kind of veer off into another
direction then I wanted it to when it came to the ending segment. These
things did effect my personal opinion for the movie but, it definitely
was not bad. I do recommend this film for at least a one time watch and
maybe even a second if your friends have not seen it. I give it a 7.5
out of 10 and remember this whole review was opinion based so, don't
yell at me! Hope this helped out a little and I hope you enjoy!
