1
Unbearable to watch if you still has any common sense

It is rare for me to do a complete password reset to write a short
movie review. I do hope that my little effort and many others' effort
can alert the Hollywood that this world, the audience, still need a
well written script that make sense.This movie is a total loss and is unbearable to watch. It lacks the
very basic (minimal) scientific reasoning about almost every single
scene. I will list them as follows:1. NASA and other space agency across the global are completely out of
their mind in selecting astronauts. Every single people in the
international space station (ISS) seem to be extremely emotional,
unprofessional, and lack the very basic science knowledge. It is awful
to hear that many of them have the "Dr." title. It is such a decry to
the scientific professionals. These characters do not represent the
people with a Phd, and the diligent people working on sending people to
Mars, for real.2. The ridiculous lab setting is a failure even for researching known
disease on earth soil. There is a character who is from CDC in the
movie. However, I wonder any CDC expert would ever consider attending a
mission that is so cutting edge and full of unknown, with the knowledge
that the lab is not as good as the ones they used to treat ZIKA in
Africa. Those ZIKA labs(tents actually) has better breach protocols and
protection than the 200 Billion ISS described in the movie. 3. The life form is too ridiculous. If the producer wants to make a
"Alien" like creature, then please do not make a movie that uses the
real life as story background. The life form consume water and is
carbon based. Yet, it does not boil or explode in the bare space? I do
not know if such creature exists, but it is definitely not carbon
based. So, please get a scientific consultant before even considering
make this movie.I like watching super hero movies, since they just don't try to hint
you to attempt making sense of the movie. It is OK to make a movie that
is nonsense, as long as you do not try to deliver it as if it make
sense.I like watching science fictions, since they will at least follow some
basic rules. Martians and Interstellar are pretty stretch on scientific
mind. However, there is a way for you to at least explain the story. It
is very boundary case, but it can make sense. I think this is the very
basic principal for a science fiction movie that try to use real world
as context.The final word is that "how did this movie end up getting the
ridiculous rating?" When I check the rating, even the rotten tomato
puts it to 61%. This is too beyond my sense.
