1
Terrible. Maybe the worst Spider-Man film yet.

Spider-Man: Homecoming is probably the worst Spider-Man movie yet. I
would have to go back and watch the terrible Amazing Spider-Man reboots
and compare to really give a definitive answer. There is so much wrong with this movie that I don't even know where to
begin. Sitting in the theater I kept thinking and sighing to myself
going "Man this movie is horrible". I kept waiting for it to pick up
but it never did. One of the main problems (like I see some have posted on here) is Iron
Man. There is absolutely no reason for him to be in this movie to me. I
hate that he gave Spider-Man his suit, which is basically a spandex
Iron Man suit. Spider-Man or Spider-Boy can't save a ferry boat full of
people, Iron Man has to show up and save everyone. We have to watch
Spider-Boy whine and complain to his fat annoying friend about Iron Man
throughout almost the entire movie. Iron Man is here to substitute
Uncle Ben basically and help Spider-Man get back to making money at the
box office again.The characters in the movie are annoying as HELL. Peter's fat annoying
friend who is constantly asking him stupid questions. Flash Thompson,
who I hope they aren't planing on turning into Venom because the actor
they have here is worse than the one from Spider- Man 3. Flash Thompson
is weirdly obsessed with Peter, there is a scene where he runs past
Peter and slaps him on the ass...you do the math. Mary Jane or MJ or
Michelle (I guess she is the new Mary Jane) is a weird, hipster like
chick who hates everything and is also weirdly obsessed with Peter.
Michael Keaton is cool as the Vulture but they give him little to do
really up until the end. Even Spider- Man himself was annoying. This is a typical MCU movie so you pretty much know what you are going
to get. All these different superheros, with different stories and
backgrounds to tell and Marvel continues to keep this same, tired and
overdone formula they have been using forever. Full of cheesy and
unfunny FORCED jokes that are extremely overdone. Somehow critics love
this and rate these movies high as if they haven't seen it just a few
months ago in Guardians of the Galaxy 2. No memorable action sequences
like from Spider-Man 1,2, or even 3. A villain or villains that aren't
worth a damn (typical MCU) and a basic story that never really goes
anywhere. A twist that even Stevie Wonder could have seen coming. A
very weak Spider-Man movie that doesn't get me excited to see the next
chapter or even the Spider-Man character anymore because they just
can't seem to get him right anymore.
