6
Simply disappointing

Quickie Review:After the massive success of Ted, director Seth MacFarlane returns to
make another comedy feature film, in which he is also the star. His
character, Albert, lives in the West where everything and everyone is
deadly. He loses his love Louise (Amanda Seyfried) to Foy (Neil Patrick
Harris). With the help of gun-slinging Anna (Charlize Theron) he must
duel Foy in a gunfight to win his love back. A Million Ways to Die in
the West, is a satirical comedy western that unfortunately does not
deliver consistent quality of jokes. You will chuckle a few times sure,
but as a whole this is not MacFarlane's best work. Quite frankly this a
poor movie that has been advertised in the trailers with all the best
jokes.Full Review:I enjoy MacFarlane's work in Family Guy and I especially loved Ted. So
going in I was quite excited to see A Million Ways to Die in the West.
However, by the second half I realized I was actually bored. It pains
to me to say this because I really like Seth MacFarlane's sense of
humor, but this was just not a good movie.This is the first time we see MacFarlane in a live action lead role. We
know he is good with voice work for animated characters but as a live
action actor he's not at the same level of quality. He actually feels
out of place, it's more like he is in some skit show. In fact, the
whole movie feels like a series of skits, each scene is just set up for
a gag. It gets so lost in making all these gags work that there is no
coherent flow to the story. This makes an already 2 hour long movie
feel longer because you just don't know where it's going, and more
importantly the jokes aren't even that funny.This brings me to the biggest let down of this movie, the jokes. Yes of
course there are few chuckles here and there, but even the worst
comedies has those. At no point was I bursting with laughter. Later on
in the movie, it starts to rely on the dick, fart and poop jokes. Sure,
once in a while I can enjoy those jokes, but if the whole scene is
depending on that to get some laughter, then I'm switching my brain off
because clearly the writers have too. You know they ran out of ideas
when they resort to the laxative gag. Dear Hollywood, stop it with the
laxative joke, it was funny when I was kid.Apart from the scenes from the trailer, there is one cameo and a bar
fight that I quite enjoyed watching. I think anyone going in with big
expectations based on Ted will be sorely disappointed. There are
definitely worse comedies out there than this. Still, considering the
team and cast involved, A Million Ways to Die in the West should have
been so much better.Check out more on my movie review blog The Stub Collector:
http://thestubcollector.wordpress.com/
