3
Nothing you haven't seen before.

I wanted to like this. I really did. I love Denzel Washington and Ryan
Reynolds is good enough not to be type-casted while still holding onto
his own style.Unfortunately, nothing works here.This movie is incredibly simple to summarize, due to it's simplicity.
Ryan Reynolds plays a caretaker of a Safe House. He's a CIA agent
trying to prove himself, and that chance comes when Tobin Frost (Denzel
Washington, and the only character who's name I can even remember) is
caught through some suspiciously specific circumstances comes his way.Sounds cool, right? It's not.Specifically? It's nothing we haven't seen. Corrupt government,
predictable plot points and you'll figure out who the bad guy is
halfway through the movie, which takes away some of it's sting. It
predictably tried to make us think the woman-agent (I don't even know
their names) was working against the office but it wasn't, because the
movie pressed to much into her "hardass" attitude. It wasn't
believable.The biggest disappointment was the whole plot point, the MOVIE'S TITLE,
was barely utilized. I went in expecting a psychological thriller,
maybe 60-75% of the movie taking place in the Safe House as Tobin Frost
messes with the minds of everyone around him. That's what the trailers
implied anyway. I got no such thing.Instead, the Safe House is broken into within minutes of Frost entering
the building. There's a second safe house later in the movie and it,
too, serves little point except the placeholder of the climax. All in
all? I doubt we get 10 minutes worth of what is supposed to be the
movie's title. Frankly, the movie should have been renamed.Let's not forget that Frost barely proves his reputation, which we get
in a quick scene of exposition as it explains that he "rewrote
interrogation protocol" or something. At most, he says about four
mindscrewing lines to Reynolds' character, and not much happens with
it.It just felt everything this movie was supposed to be was abandoned.That's what I didn't like. The fight scenes were fine, the actors were
fine, even (some of the) writing was fine. But when I left I found it
difficult to like this movie.
