1
Ridiculous nonsense.

WARNING: LOTS OF SPOILERS.Synopsis: Two archaeologists find some old drawings of an alien and a
star map. They "choose to believe" that the aliens created human life.
So they travel to the planet identified in the drawings. When they
arrive at the planet, the members of the expedition all work against
each other even though they all want the same thing. Each member then
repeated does really stupid things until most of them are dead. The
film ends before we see the final stupid decision actually kill the
last surviving members.Nothing the characters did made any sense: > The robot without feelings falls in love with a woman. > The robot then risks her life because he wants to preserve the
parasite inside her. Why? No reason. > The expedition is searching for life, but the biologist wants to
return to the ship when they find a 2000 year old corpse. > The geologist also wants to return to the ship rather than look at
rocks. > The geologist then gets lost despite being in charge of the mapping
device. > The top boss pays for the expedition, but pretends he's dead and
hides on the ship. Why? No reason. > The leader of the expedition refuses to cooperate with either the
robot or the archaeologists - even though they all want the same thing.> The alien tries to kill everyone, so the surviving characters decide
to go to the alien's home planet to talk to them.Another issue that kept annoying me was the inaccurate terminology
used. There was no reason for it - it was just wrong. For example, at
one point the archaeologists talk about abiogenesis and the biologist
weirdly starts talking about evolution. Later on, a head exploded (like
in Scanners) and the scientist says "Why did that head combust?". I
don't expect screenwriters to have degrees, but they should at least
look up words in the dictionary.The CGI is good and the acting would be fine if the actors had been
given something worthwhile to do. But every other aspect of the film
was a disappointing waste of time.1/10
