9
Real Cinematic Art

Cinema has always been a gloried artwork and we have much more
authentic proof in astounding Loving Vincent.An animated construction entirely brought to life by oil paintings, is 
quintessential proof that cinema has still barely scratched the surface
of its reaches. Loving Vincent is landmark event for animation and even
biographical storytelling through its majestic vision at the last days
of Vincent Van Gogh.Set a after the death of fabled painter, Armand Roulin (Douglas Booth)
is possessed with a letter from Van Gogh to his brother Theo before his
death, and begins the journey to deliver it. While on call, Roulin
encounters all the people close to Vincent before is death gradually
trying to put the pieces of what cause his sudden suicide. From this we
are taken back to key moments of Van Gogh's life mesmerizingly
displayed through the living oil paintings.Generated by 65,000 paintings by over a 100 artist, Loving Vincent is
living work of art. First shot as a live action depiction then adapted
into paintings, the immersive gallery of scenes is a first in new
format of animation. Directors: Dorota Kobiela, and Hugh Welchman take
Van Gogh's own artistry into his own biography (almost), from Citizen
Kane style narrative, assessing and celebrating the life of one of the
worlds if not the most famous painter. From this production becomes
transporting cinema experience into the world of Van Gogh and an
enchanting watch of magnificent painting and animation.Of course what is the fundamental strength of Loving Vincent is its
captivating artwork which for every moment is spectacular, and then you
have the real narrative of Van Gogh's last days which on its own is an
affectionate journey. Even if you don't not much about the life of Van
Gogh this is an enthralling experience.The monumental presence of the paintings is consistently exceptional
with wonderful detail and creation put into it. One of the sensational
efforts for the film is its sketch of the real actors, making them
instantly recognisable on screen, bringing their performance into the
art. Although our eyes are set on visual presence, Clint Mansell's
score is also a tear-jerking atmosphere throughout the film, capturing
the melancholy as well as joy of Van Gogh.Loving Vincent is a visual sensation, proving the amazing talent that
animation brings to the screen. This is by far one of the most
significant films of the year and is must see experience, especially
for art students.
