6
Big  Eyes

After various mediocre attempts (Dark Shadows, Alice in Wonderland,
Sweeney Todd) to recover the visual magic which made him popular in the
'80s and '90s, director Tim Burton came back to reality with his most
recent film, Big Eyes. Well, that "return to reality" is very relative,
because this film offers us a very "Burtonesque" version of the '60s,
full of beautiful colors, magnificent cinematography and a gorgeous
production design. I could write various paragraphs about the visual
richness of Big Eyes, but I won't do it because I'm running out of
positive adjectives, and I still have various negative ones to say.
Unfortunately, the screenplay of Big Eyes isn't as captivating as the
images. Co-screenwriters Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski drive
the story on a bland way, focusing on the most basic aspects of the
"true events" (I suppose so... I'm not even interested in confirming
them in Wikipedia), ignoring all the elements which would have made the
film deep and substantial. For example: one of the reasons why Margaret
Keane accepts to yield the credit of her paintings is the fact that
nobody would take a female artist seriously. That simple fact could
have initiated an interesting reflection about genre equality and the
sexual policy of the '60s, just before the detonation of feminism...
but that's completely abandoned. Alexander and Karaszewski also wasted
the opportunity to examine the ridiculousness of artistic underworld,
always searching new trends and techniques to make them fashionable,
without caring about their genuine artistic value. The characters
played by Jason Schwartzman and Terence Stamp comment a bit about that
topic, but it's too brief, and both end up being relegated to "comic
relief" and elitist villain, respectively. Another negative element of
Big Eyes is that Amy Adams and Christoph Waltz don't have any chemistry
with each other in the leading roles. They don't feel credible as
husband and wife; they seem two strangers who work together. Even when
their characters fight with each other, their performances feel cold
and distant. In conclusion, Big Eyes is a well made film which offers
various visual attributes; but I didn't find its screenplay very well
raised, and the more dramatic they tried to make it, the more trivial
it feels.
