4
"Jobs" is a biopic with a very narrow focus, and without any sense of risk or adventure.

Joshua Michael Stern's "Jobs" is like an assembly line for the best
moments in the career of Steve Jobs, but seriously lacking in depth,
and without much significance. It is a truly unremarkable biopic of the
"master of innovation" as you could possibly imagine. "Jobs" follows an
overly safe, unimaginative course that clocks in at a tiresome 122
minutes. The storytelling is painfully straightforward, covering only
the principal events of his professional trials and tribulations, and
providing little else beyond what is already public knowledge.Developing his imagination for computer programming at Atari, Steve
Jobs (Ashton Kutcher) brings in his friend Steve Wozniak (Josh Gad) to
help with the hardware aspect, forming a partnership that would soon
lead to the founding and development of Apple Computers, a force within
the industry throughout the 1980s. Steve is not prepared for the
financial demands and the ruthless business mentality, and is
eventually forced out of the company he began, only to return in the
1990s with a fresh game plan on how to bring Apple back into the public
consciousness, and to dominate the industry once again."Jobs" is a biopic with a very narrow focus, and without any sense of
risk or adventure. It is so intent on covering Jobs' entire corporate
career, that it simply reduces his personal life to a footnote. Stern
completely glosses over Jobs' personal life, which is essential to any
self-respecting biopic. The entire production feels rushed and slapped
together simply to benefit from being the first one out of the gate.To his credit, Kutcher puts forth a good effort, and he undeniably
looks the part of Steve Jobs. Unfortunately, Ashton always looks like
he is trying too hard to play the part, and never fully becomes the
character he's portraying. His limitations on the big screen prove to
be a major liability. He has developed a screen persona as likable
character, which has served him well with numerous TV sitcoms. Not so
much with movies.What emerges is a movie that has "a made for TV" feel, which depicts a
self-absorbed creep who stabs everyone in the back to simply to get his
way that goes on for two plus hours. A thoroughly unsatisfying tribute,
and we are still left none the wiser as to what made "The Father of the
Digital Revolution" beyond what we already know.
