3
Rise of the 300's B-Team

1. The back story of the villains in this film is more interesting than
the story of the 2-dimensional leads in it. 2. The cartoon blood was
distracting. I half expected to see some ACME Anvils land on some
Persian dude's head. 3. The slow motion to fast motion gimmick was old
5 years ago, and if we want to see 300 style action sequences, we will
watch 300. Beautiful imagery, but I'd rather see paintings of it rather
than 2 hours of slow- mo. 4.Under explained stakes and characters. I
still have no idea why anyone was fighting and what they were fighting
over really. And furthermore I felt more sad for the lead villain who
was raped repeatedly as a slave child rather than the leading men who
think it's cool to have sex with the enemy. And the other heroes from
300 are a culture of people who not only beat children but discard
BABIES if they are not born perfectly. These are our heroes? The
Persians at least didn't mention that in their back story. 5. This film
is almost all exposition. Nearly 80% of the dialogue is either
Braveheart style speeches to 10,000 soldiers who somehow can hear one
man without a microphone, or two over-acting characters speaking in
inconsistent British accents to remind the audience of what's going on
and what they're going to do. 6. If you can't get Gerard Butler to
perform ANY speaking lines in the film, just cut him out completely. It
was laughable how many times they did the "OH, Your favorite character,
GERARD BUTLER, JUST left..you JUST missed him..so here is stock photos
from the last movie of him...and oh his wife and this guy were in the
last movie...and you know them...so they will speak on his behalf" 7.
King Leonidas' wife is just as skilled as any Spartan on the
battlefield and leads them from the front lines? OK. 8. If Hollywood is
going to only make remakes, reboots, and adaptations of earlier works,
they should at very least think a bit more on the script before pooping
it out. There is no substance in this film, no real story, no stakes,
and worst of all, no serious supporting actor. 9. On a positive note,
the extras in this film are HILARIOUS. Comedy gold. 10. I cannot take
this movie seriously, and I am their target audience. Worth a DVD
rental for some fun, but even in 3D it gets old.Try again Hollywood cash-cow Inc.
