4
Overstuffed and Undercooked

The WINTER SOLDIER is the best MCU film, but its sequel has a serious
identity crisis. Captain America: Civil War wants to be great. But for the most part it
isn't. The film is an overstuffed 2 and half hour film that has one too
many ideas thrown into the mix. It is essential a cash grab of the BVS
variety. But why can't people see this? Now this is a Captain America as the title suggests. But in the end a
more fitting title would read: Bucky VS Ironman: Dawn of who's the
Captain's Bestie. The reason I say this is the film felt disjointed to
the point of it being a joke. It felt like two separate films weaved
together to try and make a film that makes sense. But it didn't It's
one half a Captain flick/ the other half a mini Avengers film. But they
both drown each other. It's clear this is a film Marvel wanted to make, but why on earth rush
into it? One film could never service this iconic plot line. It should
have been gradual, and while we did see Cap and Tony tense up in
Ultron, this is where a strain in their relationship should have been
definite and it should have still been in effect at the beginning of
this film.For the most part of the Airport sequence there was no real danger. It
was a carefully orchestrated scene that showed these films are for
young cinema-goers. Even when one character is looked to be written off
"BAM" they are back, giving everyone some cheep laughs at the end of
the film. Now from a writing and filmmaking point of view and dare I say it, this
film has worse interconnecting scenes then The Amazing Spiderman 2.
Re-shoots are obvious, editing is sub par, cinematography lacked style
and was evident to be a "quick" point-and-shoot at the action affair.
Such a disappointment. But yes this film has it's fun moments (the same can not be said for
BVS). But they can't help a film tailored to a certain demographic that
leaves out those looking for a film that doesn't kill a few braincell
upon leaving the cinema. The laughs are hardly inspirational writing
and forced, so forced.sidetone: ONLY SOME OF THEM HAVE SUPER POWERS, SO WHY DO THEY ALL
RECOVER FROM HARD HITS AND KNOCKS? it's just makes the stakes so much
lower and less respectable.
