8
Bonnie and Clyde for the Old Ranger

Greetings again from the darkness. A good guy doing bad things for a
good reason. A bad guy doing bad things for a good reason. A good guy
whose make-up doesn't allow for bad things by anyone for any reason.
Director David MacKenzie (Starred Up) and writer Taylor Sheridan
(Sicario) serve up a quasi-western featuring a crusty old Texas Ranger
doggedly pursuing two bank robbing brothers. If not for the numerous
destroy-the-flow screaming political statements, this could have been a
near instant classic – just a tick below No Country for Old Men.Chris Pine and Ben Foster play brothers Toby and Tanner Howard. Details
eek out slowly about each … most importantly that Toby is a divorced
dad and Tanner is an ex-con. Toby has meticulously planned out their
bank robbery spree. The goal is to save his family ranch so his boys
can escape the "disease" of poverty. Tanner is along to support his
brother … and probably because he enjoys the adrenaline rush.Soon enough, Texas Ranger Marcus Hamilton (Jeff Bridges) is on the
trail of the boys, and his highly developed instincts and gut feelings
annoy his partner Alberto (Gil Birmingham) almost as much as Marcus'
incessant and insensitive racial teases – a reminder of the days when
buddies would verbally jab each other without the risk of class action
lawsuits.The performances are all excellent. Pine is the quiet guy resigned to a
life without happiness, but refusing to give up on his boys. Foster is
the wide-eyed trouble-maker who long ago realized he would always be
one careless moment from the end. Bridges literally becomes the Ranger
being forced into retirement (age) but intent on remaining somewhat
relevant. Additional support work is also quite colorful in a west
Texas kind of way. The wonderful Dale Dickey gets an early sequence
with the boys, the great Buck Taylor is always a pleasant presence,
Margaret Bowman adds yet another memorable character to her resume as
the T-Bone waitress, and Katy Mixon ("Eastbound and Down") gets to
stand up for the little people.West Texas is a character unto itself with massive poverty, oil pumps
on the horizon, dusty streets, rickety fences, and gun-toting citizens
everywhere. Each of these elements is beautifully captured by
cinematographer Giles Nuttgens (Dom Hemingway), as are the actual bank
robberies and the quiet moments between brothers and Rangers partners.
To cap it off, Nick Cave and Warren Ellis add a nice score and even
better soundtrack … the best of which is an opening song from Townes
Van Zandt.Mixed in with the impending gloom are some terrifically witty exchanges
and some downright funny moments. Exceptional acting, a spot on
setting, wonderful photography, and superb music are only slightly
offset by the previously mentioned obnoxious and too obvious shots
taken at big banks and oil companies. Sometimes a good story can be
just that … and not a political statement.
