7
Very Well-Acted, Although Flawed!

Tom Hooper's 'The Danish Girl' is a brave story, about brave people, in
a time where their bravery must've been counted as mental illness.
Hooper chooses the correct actors to portray the parts & directs the
film with dignity. However, The Writing doesn't always engage & is
flawed in places.'The Danish Girl' is A fictitious love story inspired by the lives of
Danish artists Lili Elbe and Gerda Wegener. Lili and Gerda's marriage
and work evolve as they navigate Lili's groundbreaking journey as a
transgender pioneer.'The Danish Girl' salutes the courageous lives of Lili Elbe & Gerda
Wegener. Both of whom who died too early, had the courage to be
themselves, especially Lilli, who chose to express rather than being
repressed. And Gerda, a women who had to face the reality, was a women
who respected her husband's truth. That was True Romance!But, 'The Danish Girl' isn't as tightly Written it should have been.
Lucinda Coxon's Screenplay, which is based on the 2000 novel of the
same name by David Ebershoff, is powerful, but in doses. The first-hour
works wonders, but the second-hour slows down & the flaws in the
Writing show up. The final-act, to put it bluntly, isn't half as
emotionally moving as it deserved to be. In short, the Writing lets
'The Danish Girl' down, at some parts.Tom Hooper's Direction is dignified. He has handled some of the most
dramatic scenes, with great conviction. Danny Cohen's Cinematography is
nicely done. Melanie Ann Oliver's Editing is perfectly sized. Art &
Costume Design are fabulous. Alexandre Desplat's Score is enchanting. A
Special Mention for the nearly done Make-Up.Performance-Wise: Eddie Redmayne as Lili Elbe & Alicia Vikander as
Gerda Wegener, deliver brilliant performances. Eddie, fresh from his
Oscar-Win this year, strikes back with a yet another winning
performance, thats both, brave & heartbreaking. Vikander is splendid as
his wife, who conveys her pain, with concern & sensitivity. And the
on-screen chemistry between the two, is wonderful. Ben Whishaw & Amber
Heard are terrific in supporting roles.On the whole, 'The Danish Girl' isn't as good as one expects it to be,
but its well-directed & very well-acted nonetheless!
