7
light on scares

So I went and saw IT, and came back unimpressed. I mean it was a good
movie, no doubt about that. A bunch of kids, outcasts in their own
right, being terrorized by an ancient demon that plays upon the fears
of its victims is pretty much the standard in Hollywood horror movie
territory. All the kids are well cast, the script is funny and tight,
and there are plenty of monster shots. The cinematography is great, the
pace is even and the CGI is flawless. But is more funny than
terrifying- it's R rating more a justification of teenage slang in the
script, rather than for true scares. But that is what typically Stephen King is all about. His stories are
studies on relationships rather than all out horror. In IT, King
reversed Spielberg's E.T, and explored everyday monsters of childhood-
abuse, violence and neglect. Juxtapose that with an eternal evil
shape-shifting entity who wakes up every 27 years to prey, and you have
a shawarma of a plot. The book is scary, the movie isn't. Probably so
because today, we are used to Stranger Things. We are used to kids doing stupendous stuff these days- whether running
billion dollar companies, or bringing back lost souls from other
dimensions. It all seems very easy for today's generation to figure
things out- most of IT establishes this narrative. A wonderful group of
actors face off against Bill Skarsgard's Pennywise the Dancing Clown,
and they all nail their parts. The movie takes place in a town where
all the adults are essentially villains- so its not just the kids
versus the clowns everyone else. But for sheer impact, IT never reaches
the highs it achieves in its first sequence. It is a great example of how strong marketing can make mediocre movies
look a billion bucks. Other reviewers are putting IT right up there
with other Stephen King adaptions such as The Shining and The Thing. Oh
please, that would be laying it too thick. Director Andy Muschietti's
earlier take on the genre- Mama, is a far better contender.No good horror movie can get away by being light on scares, however
good the characters and the script are. So look at IT as an extension
of Goonies or Stranger Things, a PG-13 romp, not an iconic horror
movie. 7/10
