8
Exactly what kids love....

This has been a huge week for "Wonder Woman", as it set a record for a
female-directed movie with over $100,000,000 at the box office.
However, in all the excitement over this film there is another
superhero movie that debuted as well that deserves our attention as
well"Captain Underpants"! And, after having seen both films, I have to
admit that I enjoyed watching "Captain Underpants" more because it is
something few superhero movies are these days.it's fun! Please
understand meI am not saying it's necessarily better. However, it is a
lot of fun and lightheartedthings you'd almost never associate with
today's very dark superhero filmsand reasons you might not want to
take kids to see most of the pictures in this genre.In order to enjoy the Captain Underpants movie it sure helps if you are
a childor if you are a bit childish. My daughters grew up reading the
Captain Underpants books and Dav Pilkey's character certainly has been
a hit among kids. Why do kids love Captain Underpants? Well, it's
everything serious literature is notit's filled with potty humor, bad
jokes and silliness because Pilkey wrote and illustrated the books as
if they were really created by mischievous childrenthe same George and
Harold who are the stars of the film. And, having been a middle school
teacher as well as a man who adamantly refuses to grow up, I had a
wonderful time seeing it with my 22 year-old daughterwho also loved
the movie.The story begins with George and Harold being called into their very
grouchy principal's office. As usual, they are up to no good and as
usual the mirthless man is about to throw the book at the boys sending
them to separate classroomswhich is horrible since they are best
friends. However, in desperation, George tries out his cheap hypno-
ring he got in a cereal box and amazingly it worksturning the
principal into the boys' slave. They decide to make him become Captain
Underpantsthe hero in the comic book the boys have created. And, like
this character, the principal begins running around town fighting
crime.in his underwear! Little do the boys realize that they'll need
his help when the evil Professor Poopypants arrives with his latest
weapon!OkayI'll admit this does not sound like Shakespeare or Jane Austin.
You've got Professor Poopypants, comments about Uranus and fart jokes.
But these are exactly what kids really loveand I heard lots of kids
laughing throughout the movie. And, even though I am supposed to be
sophisticated and above all this, I found myself laughing too.I also appreciate how the Canadian team who made the film managed to
capture the look, style and spirit of the Captain Underpants books.
While the CGI is not the most complicated I've ever seen, it matches
the characters perfectlyand even offers a cute added sock puppet show!
Funny, well written and a lot of fun, this is NOT a good date night
movie but a perfect film if you've got kids (young or even grown like
mine) who grew up with Pilkey's creation. Not to be missed.
