1
How did this even get close to a 7?

Let me start off by saying it doesn't deserve a 1, but i have to do
what i can to balance out this undeserved rating. did we all forget how
awesome the first one was? kick-ass 2 doesn't even come close. the
entire film is one giant, ridiculous, cheese ball. the terrible one liners, the petty high school drama, the cheesy
writing and plot elements which at times were just plain embarrassing
to watch. not to mention how they managed to ruin hit girls
character/essence with the sudden need to "fit in" with the high school
crowd.im sorry but the "real" hit girl, a highly trained killer since the age
of 5, wouldn't give a flying f*** about fitting in with a crowd of
fake, self absorbed teenagers. and while we are on that note, i just
want to say that i absolutely refuse to believe kids today actually act
the way they did in this film.all of those great elements from the original are gone. when kickass
stuck up for the guy getting jumped in front of the diner. when hit
girl made her first appearance in razuls apartment and flawlessly
butchered everyone in the room. when big daddy cleared out the
warehouse full of goons in such amazing style that it gave me the
chills. when hit girl showed up during the unveiling of kickass and
murdered everyone in an awesome display of flashing lights while big
daddy burned alive.all of those feelings, all of that greatness, is just nonexistent in
the sequel. the one good thing kick-ass 2 had going for it self was "colonel stars
and stripes". as usual jim carrey did an awesome job with his character
and he was the only one i had an actual connection with.i hear kickass will be a trilogy, that there will be one more to wrap
up the series. i expect the third to be even worse, as is the norm with
most trilogys that start off great then take a turn for the worst. but i will still hope, until the day it is here, that they return to
the originality and sheer awesomeness that was the first kick-ass. we
will just have to wait and see...
