5
Very unrealistic

A girl is found in a dumpster fully clothed, but the girl has been
raped and bleach has been poured on her and inside her to eliminate DNA
evidence.Anyone with a background in criminology will tell you that the whole
scene would have been highly unlikely. The guy had no real connection
to her. The only reason a perp would put clothes back on a female after
murdering her - cover up her body - is if they had some kind of
connection to her (family, friend, partner). For example, Amber
Hagerman, a nine year old taken off her bike in broad daylight was
found with one sock on face down in a creek behind her apartment
building. Similarly, Kristen French, a 15 year old after being held
captive for days was found nude on the side of the road. Her head was
even shaved to eliminate any potential evidence of carpet fibres. These
victims are discarded like trash. A perp is not going to put clothes
back on them, especially since clothes always has some kind of evidence
on it (head hair,dog hair, feline hair, clothing/carpet fibre, pubic
hair, the kind of forensic material that cannot be bleached away). Many
people have been convicted of similar crimes on weak evidence, such as
carpet fibres in a car matching fibres found within the inside of a
girl's pants, for example, even after being submerged in a lake for
some time. This is NOT always the case. Some girls are found partially clothed,
but that is only because the unsub was in a hurry and didn't bother to
remove all the clothing during the assault. In the case of this movie, the unsub bleached the girl on the inside
and out. If he went to all that trouble, he would not risk putting
clothes back on the girl, since clothing always carries some carpet,
hair, clothing fibres on it. Also, he did a bad a bleaching job, since
the clothing was not even bleached. The forensics in the case were pathetic, it looked the case was taking
place in some poor country like Columbia, Mexico or the Philippines
with no forensic team of specialists. She went into the dumpster and
completely contaminated the scene and all the evidence at the scene.
Any evidence on the daughter was contaminated at that point with fibres
she brought on herself. (That is why investigators wear special
clothing prior to going into these types of scenes.)They are detectives in a joint force on terrorism and yet they are
asked to investigate a rape and murder of a female. This is also
unlikely. There are HOMICIDE INVESTIGATORS for that, not the same thing
as homeland security. Whoever wrote this movie really needs to watch some crime dramas and
forensic files episodes because even in the 1980s, when DNA had NOT
been used in court yet and was at its most early stages of development,
there was still a lot of forensic data collected at a scene. The acting was good, but the movie was boring, jumped back and fourth,
and was inaccurate/unrealistic.
