7
Kroc took their lunch money

Greetings again from the darkness. How you define success will likely
determine your interpretation of this film that is every bit as much
about the humble beginnings and explosive growth of McDonalds as it is
a biopic of Ray Kroc, the self-professed "founder" of the golden arches
empire. Capitalism and its corresponding businessmen have not typically
been favorably portrayed by Hollywood in such films as The Social
Network, Wall Street, Glengarry Glen Ross, Steve Jobs and The Wolf of
Wall Street. This latest from director John Lee Hancock (Saving Mr.
Banks, The Blind Side) and writer Robert Siegel (The Wrestler) is no
exception, and it's obvious why.It's 1954 when we first catch up with Ray Kroc (as played by Michael
Keaton). He's the type of travelling salesman who totes around his
latest widget (a multiple milkshake machine), rehearses and polishes
his spiel (via extreme close-up), and listens to motivational record
albums that preach the importance of persistence, while he stays at
roadside motels that act as his home away from home. Kroc doggedly
pursues the American dream, and optimistically bounces from one project
to another … convinced that he's found "the next big thing".When circumstance leads him to a crowded little octagonal burger shop
in San Bernardino, Kroc becomes fascinated with its simplicity and
success. Over dinner, Dick (Nick Offerman) and Mac (John Carroll Lynch)
McDonald detail the Spee-Dee kitchen design and unique focus on
quality, consistency and speed that today is considered the starting
line of the fast-food industry. The tennis court sequence is especially
creative and fun to watch. While the brothers prefer to keep the
business small and remain in control, Kroc pitches his vision of
franchising … a pitch with emphasis on "Crosses. Flags. Arches".The full story is likely one most people don't know … despite the fact
that McDonalds now feeds 1% of the world population each day (a
statistic posted on screen). The relationship between Kroc and the
McDonald brothers was never a smooth one, and it's a perfect example of
dog-eat-dog, or unprincipled vs idealistic. Kroc sees himself as a
"winner", while it's likely most will view his actions as unscrupulous,
even if legal.Keaton's performance accurately captures a man who is impatiently
ambitious, and whose confidence and ego grow incrementally as it
becomes inevitable that the decency of the brothers is actually a
weakness in business. Offerman and Lynch are both excellent, and other
support work is provided by Laura Dern as Kroc's first and mostly
neglected wife who is tossed aside when something better comes along;
BJ Novak as Harry J Sonneborn, the key to Kroc's power move; Justin
Randell Brooks as Fred Turner and Kate Kneeland as June Martino, two
trusted employees; and Patrick Wilson as a key franchisee. Linda
Cardellini (Mad Men, Bloodline) plays Joan, Ray's wife (she was
actually his third) and business adviser from 1969 until his death in
1984. The film shortchanges her importance – at least until the closing
credit recap.Bookending that opening extreme close-up sales pitch, is a
near-conclusion zoom on Keaton's face as he prepares for an event where
he will tell his story … at least his version of the story. The film
does a really nice job of capturing the era. Of particular interest is
that the cars don't look like they rolled right out of a classic car
show, as happens with most movies. It's nice to see some faded paint
and a dented fender on screen. The early McDonalds locations are
beautifully and realistically replicated to provide a nostalgic look
for some, and a first glimpse for others. Carter Burwell's score is
complementary to the proceedings, and director Hancock deserves credit
for not just making this the Michael Keaton/Ray Kroc show. Rather than
serving up a Happy Meal movie, the film instead provides a somewhat
toned-down historical view of ambition and drive, and the birth of an
empire … one that changed our culture.
