10
Harrowing, emotional portrayal of a devastating event

It would be impossible to try and capture the widespread loss and
destruction of this horrible, devastating event. The scope was so large
and far too many people lost their lives to even attempt to portray on
film. Instead, director Juan Antonio Bayona and screenwriter Sergio G.
Sánchez focused smartly on the true story of one family's struggle for
survival amongst all that had happened on December 26th, 2004. This allows the film to be much more intimate, and the audience is
quickly able to connect with the Bennett family, starting simply with
their arrival to Thailand. While the audience was filled with dread in
anticipation of what was to come, the Bennetts were blissfully unaware
and enjoying themselves over vacation. However, everything soon takes a
terrifying turn as the tsunami hits their resort in a horrifyingly
realistic manner, sweeping up people as they attempt to flee before it
or protect themselves from its awesome power.At this point, I, too, felt like I was drowning. The camera bobs in and
out of darkness, in and out of the water, as the family's matriarch,
Maria, struggles for breath. Then, clinging hopelessly onto a palm
tree, she screams all too realistically for anyone who could possibly
help her in a desperate, surprisingly shocking moment. It is at this
point where she spots her son, Lucas, floating in the fierce waves, and
I held my breath as the struggled for what seemed like an eternity to
reunite in the water.In a way, Lucas, brilliantly portrayed by newcomer Tom Holland, carries
the film from this point forward. He takes on the role of protecting
his stubborn yet badly injured mother, and in the process he's forced
to mature far too quickly. During every moment, his emotions and facial
expressions convey more than any words ever could, as she shies away
from and is frightened by his mother's injuries and nudity, all the
while attempting to deal with the scope of the pain and devastation.However, it is his mother, Maria, whom the film truly centers around.
Naomi Watts gives quite possibly her finest performances to date,
portraying harrowing desperation, stubborn determination in the face of
incredible pain and agony, and, ultimately, a sense of love and care
despite her deteriorating state. True, she is bedridden for about half
the film, but it is during this time where there are these small
moments of tenderness and humility which undoubtedly makes Watts's
performance one of the best of the year.In fact, the entire cast was exceptional, including Ewan McGregor, the
father desperately trying to put together his family again, and the two
littlest sons, Thomas, played by Samuel Joslin, and Simon, played by
Oaklee Pendergast, both of whose innocence prevented them from
thoroughly capturing the extent of this tragic event. The story of
these three is intertwined with that of Maria and Lucas, as they all
struggle for survive amidst the destruction and reunite amidst the
chaos. Ultimately, this is a touching and heartwarming film, as the true
kindness of humanity can be seen in this time of great loss. Yes, the
tsunami is terrifying, the injuries gruesome and shockingly realistic,
and the pain and suffering visible on just about everyone's faces.
However, the Bennetts' story is a remarkable one of love,
determination, and hope, and it simply cannot be missed.
