1
beautifully filmed non-existent plot and unrelatable characters plus a bunch of nonsense

I enjoyed the first few minutes of fighting in the forest and the rest
of the movie is just insufferable. Nothing makes much sense and the
pacing is so slow that I almost dosed off for a while. The good
cinematography and CGI does not make up for the lack of a decent plot
and forced character build-up. One example is that the little girl did not give a sh*t when she
discovered that her father (who supposedly risked everything escaping
from the military to protect and care for her) had been killed by the
apes but later was clearly moved to tears by the death of one of apes
who's been round and for a few days and gave her a flower one time
(maybe daddy just never put flowers in her hair and that's like her
thing?). I guess the writers' reasoning is that Caesar and the apes are
the good guys, and the girl's father tried to kill them, so he must be
a bad guy, so no sympathy for him, oh no no no, not even from his own
daughter, who needs to be on the good side later, because plots! So you
can see how this kind of character development successfully makes me
unable to empathize with any of the characters in this movie (to be
honest, I did feel for the girl's dad, poor guy). Perhaps the most irritating thing is the messy way the apes communicate
with each other. While most of them seem to be fluent with sign
languages and occasional 'O-O-' noise that makes them 'apish', Caesar
and a few other main characters can also speak some English with broken
grammar. Sometimes Caesar speaks English to apes that only do signs and
they seem to understand it (then why don't they just speak English
themselves or why don't Caesar just use sign language which others are
more comfortable with?). I know these things are there to make the
movie more 'realistic' but they don't work and only add to more
confusion and unnecessary suffering for the audience. Sometimes other
apes sign to Caesar behind his back and he totally gets it without even
looking at them! This kind of mixing up nonsensical things just makes
my OCD explode, not to mention 90% of the movie is listening to this
slow and boring enunciation of infantile broken English or reading
subtitles. I can go on, but I don't want to. I wish I had the courage to walk out
of the theater half way through the movie but I was a coward and
instead I weep for the future of cinema.
