6
Nonsensical plot accompanied by visual splendor of world's most extreme corners.

Imagine the intense stunts from energy drink commercial or Youtube
extreme sport montage while music from Mad Max blares on background.
This is where the second coming of Point Break truly excels. When it
hits just the right velocity, it's bloody breathtaking. Unfortunately,
the narrative is not only poor, it nearly sabotages the movie like a
broken parachute.Story revolves around Utah (Luke Bracey), an FBI trainee as he
investigates a series of heists and their connection to a group of
athletes led by Bodhi (Édgar Ramírez). As one might expect, it follows
the same trail that Keanu Reeves and Patrick Swayze has placed. The new
leads do what they can, although it's better to watch this without
comparing, because it certainly doesn't have the same caliber of star
or chemistry.The plot then dives head first into uncharted territory. It's littered
with so much "save the planet" preachy acts as the writing struggles to
place FBI agent in the hippie nirvana angle. The motivation is just a
mess of random vague one-liners, even the on-screen characters are
perplexed by it. There's a romance subplot, but this is mainly to show
the attractive Teresa Palmer as eye candy for several short scenes.The movie is actually better when they just show the crazy sequences
instead of forcing its lackluster story. It has plethora of impressive
feats, from high heaven wingsuit flying, the climb on hazardous urban
streets and natural cliffs, to the surfing of gigantic waves. This is
the level of stunt choreography xXx and Fast and Furious wish they had.When camera pans into the right angle and lighting, as the sounds is
muffled by throbbing tune of the fast music, Point Break reaches the
zenith. It's miles beyond what typical action flick could offer, but
sadly it's repeatedly interrupted by the shoddy story, which feels like
an excuse to fly across the globe to do random cool tricks.If viewed only on the grand mix of cinematography and choreography,
Point Break is exquisite, this would have been a great documentary of
extreme sport. However, as action movie, the story is so pretentious,
it simply serves as speed bump to hamper the thrill.
