1
Warning: Disappointed fan girl venting below

I love Marvel. Whether it be X-Men, Thor, The Avengers, Spider-man,
Iron Man... most of the commonly known ones, of course, but I always
loved them. But to put this as simply as I can -though that doesn't
mean this will be short-, this film was filled with 1,000 of the most
common clichés extracted from these great films and stories and crammed
them into one mashed-up, jumpy, unreserved, ridiculous, abnormal,
spiteful, detestable, idiotic, moronic, absurd, ludicrous, senseless,
meaningless, pointless, terribly-written, unbelievably- unrealistic,
super-super-super-hero-wannabe movie that very desperately AND
obviously AND obnoxiously attempts to special-effect everything -and I
mean everything- to simply gain some big bucks because, hey, it's
Marvel, what could go wrong? It's sad to see how successful their
attempts were; I fell for it... for me, it's all due to The Avengers
because that was freaking amazing, even though it had a lot of
commonplace stuff. And boy, do I regret wasting my two hours on this
extremely disappointing collage. Basically, it's a film made of
collages because everything just had to be colorful in outer space. No
seriously. Of course everything is colorful there. It's not like the
galaxy is filled with 96% dark matter that is called DARK for a reason.
So yeah. Totally makes sense. And your skin also starts rotting in
outer-space, too. Serious case of leprosy then? I liked Elektra more
than this. I'd rather have watched that five times. Kind of feel like
that says something. The only reasons I smiled or laughed was because
the directors and script writers were decent at making corny jokes,
puns, and lines funny enough that giggling is impossible prevent unless
you are emotionless. They should have gone with comedy, rather than
action-adventure, though, since I sincerely thought the rest of the
moments were just junk. Call me a spoil-sport if you must, but I was
literally whispering what would happen in the next minute to my friend
beside me. Usually I'm not very good at predicting what happens in
films -unless they are seriously full of clichés...which this film is-,
but I said them anyway. I was right 8 times. Out of 9. I counted.
Anyway... though the beautiful graphics did rival that of Avatar, the
plot of "saving the people from the evil mastermind only this time it
involves the whole galaxy instead of just one planet so it's not just
Earth that's being targeted this time so ha we are different" never got
THIS tiring. I was so close to sinking in my chair and dreaming up a
nightmare because of how stupidly predictable this film was. Maybe that
was intentional and Marvel fans just wanted to see some new, more
unique heroes this time, and also to see the visuals, and maybe to see
Chris Pratt and Zoe Saldana's pretty butts...but whatever. I had half
that mind prepared for a cliché-turned- awesome movie when I walked in
the theater. I came out with my whole mind filling up and overloading
with shame and displeasure.So, plot: Would have been old and good but it wasn't. Protagonists: I
would have cared for them more if the filmmakers didn't blow up almost
everyone's favorite guy and kept alive some people's least-liked
guy(s). So, yeah. Villains: ... oh my gosh, no, seriously? What even
happened to the evil robot woman? Did the filmmakers just completely
forget her? Music: Louder than Inception's horn. And I loved that even
though it had no tune. Couldn't stand this though. But still, be ready
for some rocking 80s and 90s music that I would have downloaded if they
didn't play those songs during totally inappropriate moments. Comedy
relief my butt. The only relief I got out of the soundtrack that isn't
even their soundtrack -hopefully they didn't violate any copy rights...
I mean, if it's these filmmakers, I wouldn't be surprised- is that I'm
glad Groot enjoyed himself. Visuals: Stunning. That wasn't sarcastic at
all. At all. What else? Oh yeah, unless you pay me a million dollars, I
would never watch the sequel. So sorry I can't contribute ten dollars
for Marvel next time. Tough luck.Don't let this review stop you though. Most of my friends liked it. And
of course, most people who reviewed this movie liked it, so I guess I'm
just a jerk. I'm betting you readers agree, and that's totally
understandable since I am totally venting. But hey, three out of four
of my friends never watched a Marvel movie so... call me bluffing, but
I sincerely experienced one of the deepest disappointments I have ever
dealt with in regards to a movie franchise in my entire life.... I'm still going to watch X-men though. Dang you, Marvel.
