7
An interesting take on AK marred by pretentiousness

I adore the novel, so I will be discussing Joe Wright's take on it and
where it ranks amongst other adaptations but I will of course look at
its merits as a film aside from the novel.As a whole adaptation, this version falls somewhere in the middle. Even
without all the metatheatrical trappings, it still took an interesting
and valid approach to the novel, proving that the novel could be
adapted until infinity and it would still be fresh each time. As
readers of the novel would know, there is much more to it than Anna's
affair. Tolstoy did not write vague types: he wrote fully-fleshed
characters, and Tom Stoppard's screenplay acknowledged Tolstoy's style.
Therefore I don't want to condemn the film outright because that would
overshadow the things that it does get right.Keira Knightley's version of Anna is not nearly as bad as you would
think. She has the sense to restrain herself a little so that the many
other elements of the novel shine through. She goes for the
unsympathetic approach and it works. All her mannerisms that I
generally find annoying- the schoolgirl smirking and rampant
nymphomania- actually work for this role. This Anna takes Vronsky just
because she can, and then ultimately regrets it. We can feel her
frustration: she's young and wants to have fun but she's tied down to a
stuffy older husband. In that sense, it's quite a modern
interpretation, but not hideously so.Aaron Taylor-Johnson as Count Vronsky was just miscast. If the novel
had been about Anna seducing a schoolboy, he would have been great, but
Vronsky is meant to be a dashing man. The styling is atrocious- he
looks like a seventies Scandinavian Eurovision entry. Wright seems to
have told some of the actors to act realistic and some to play up to
the stylised setting. Taylor-Johnson plays the artifice so much that he
just comes off as camp and sleazy. The scene where he is about to ride
Frou Frou is like a production of Equus and there's a love scene with
Keira Knightley that brought to mind an old advert for Philadelphia
cheese. Their revelation of love is also poorly dealt with. Anna has
some kind of fantasy dream where the two have an "erotic ballet" and
suddenly they're banging away, presumably now in the real world.Jude Law as Karenin. A bizarre choice when he could have played Vronsky
five years ago and might even get away with it now at a push. However,
he gives a performance that is probably his best. His Karenin is a
bureaucrat through and through. Other adaptations have still made
Karenin an attractive option. This Karenin is certainly not going to
develop any great passion soon. We also see how he is manipulated by
moral guardian Countess Lydia. If Law is trying to make a reputation as
a serious actor, he's on the right path.And what about all that pretentious theatre stuff? It seriously slows
down the pace in the first third but once you get used to it, you can
just enjoy the film. The ending is rather abrupt (no, that famous
ending is not the last scene) but quite poignant.
