2
Another worthless love-in.......

Every Christmas Eve for the last decade, best friends Isaac, Ethan, and
Chris have reunited for a wild night on the town in New York City. But since getting older and having to face new responsibilities, their
tradition is about to come to an end. As a result, they plan one last epic night together, which includes
finding their way to a legendary party called the Nutcracka Ball......Goldberg and Rogen must be going down the same route as Garry Marshall
with his seasonal big cast story. Take an important date, Christmas,
and interview, or the end of the world, add a plethora of star cameos,
get Rogen into some drug induced paranoid state, and you have instant
comedy........just add spite.And here it's no different. We get our three 'heroes' dawdle through
the New York streets on one of the most important days to be with your
family, trying to deny the fact that they are getting old, and need to
calm the partying down a little.And when you think about it, the three are literal heroes in a sense.
Any film starring Robin, Falcon, and The Green Hornet, should spark a
little interest. But no, it's just another excuse to make a film about
how much money they can get from the studio to make another comedy,
because the writer and the stars are not afraid of a little
controversy.Oh, and they also use the Colombia sign from the early eighties, so not
only are they slightly controversial in a cheeky way, they are also
meta!!! Win win!!.No.This stuff is starting to become really tiring, and it really irks me
when Rogen is so good in something like Steve Jobs, and then just runs
back to his safety net with this sort of unfunny tosh. So he's the obligatory goofball in the film, getting high and then
getting paranoid, Levitt playing the desperate romantic, and Mackie,
looking for a Civil War poster somewhere subliminally in the film.And then there's a weird cameo from General Zod himself, as some sort
of Christ/Santa/Jacob Marley type character giving each of the three
some sort of message about life lessons.And then there's the obligatory cameo from James Franco.Leave it. There's no Christmas spirit in this filth.Desperately unfunny, and quite miserable.
