8
Thrilling character study

As Asif Kapadia's gripping and extremely moving 2010 documentary Senna 

proved, cinema audiences have a thirst for the larger-than-life 

characters that inhabit the Formula One track. The sport itself is 

frightfully dull (although I'm sure plenty will disagree with that), 

but the sportsmen willing to lay down their life for a kick and a 

trophy are infinitely more fascinating, especially in the days of lax 

safety rules. The sport nowadays is little more than advertising on 

wheels, but when the likes of James Hunt and Niki Lauda battled it out 

on the track, epic rivalries were created, and no matter how talented 

these men were at driving these "coffins on wheels", every race could 

spell out death.



Rush portrays the clash of two opposing personalities. The long-haired, 

dashing Englishman James Hunt (Chris Hemsworth) was all about the 

adrenaline, embracing the post-race parties and lying with the many 

women that would throw themselves at him. He was reckless, willing to 

risk his life and others in order to win, but, as described in the 

film, there was no better driver in the world in terms of raw talent. 

His rival, Austrian Niki Lauda (Daniel Bruhl), was focused, clinical, 

and even helped design the cars he would drive. He was the early-night 

type, 'rat-faced' and cold. In every sense, he's the perfect villain.



But where Rush succeeds the most is challenging our early conceptions 

of these two characters. There's little fun to be had with Lauda, but 

played by Bruhl, he evolves into the underdog of the movie, perhaps the 

only one that actually gives a damn about his own life and the life of 

his opponents. This, naturally, leads to tragedy and a particularly 

wince-inducing scene in which Lauda requires having his lungs vacuumed, 

but it's at this point that we realise just what these two drivers mean 

to each other. As Lauda watches Hunt claw back some points in the 1976 

Formula One season, it becomes clear that these two need each other to 

survive. Their hatred of one another only serves to fuel the flames, 

and leads to Lauda's defiant early return to the driver's seat, scarred 

and bandaged.



Fast cars, beautiful women and exotic locations hardly sounds like a 

recognisable workload for Ron Howard, one of the most play-it-easy 

directors out there. His past films have been unjustifiably successful, 

critically and commercially, never stamping a recognisable directorial 

trait onto his work. Yet here, although the bright sheen of the 70's 

initially takes some getting used to, he has managed to create a world 

that is very much alive, using snappy editing, a pumping soundtrack and 

some growing sound design to re-create this world for petrol-heads. But 

he doesn't neglect his characters, and evokes the great work done on 

Frost/Nixon (2008), which was also a study of two giant, clashing 

personalities coming together on the world stage.



Rush is an exhilarating experience, able to distinguish each race from 

the next and literally putting us in the driver's seat with the use of 

digital cameras. Although it occasionally drifts into formulaic 

territory with the introduction of the 'wives' (played by Oivia Wilde 

and Alexandra Maria Lara, respectively), Howard cleverly uses this as 

an insight into Hunt and Lauda's personalities. Hemsworth is very good 

in his first 'proper' post-Thor role, but it is Bruhl that you take 

away from the film. How he gets you to initially loath him, only to be 

cheering him on at the climax is the work of a great actor, and it's a 

crime that he has been snubbed by the Academy this year. Hopefully this 

will inspire a host of decent sports movies, as Rush proves that you 

can mix character study and even existential musings with the thrill of 

sport.




