2
Awful. Unrealistic. Silly. Boring.

Liam, what were you thinking? There HAVE to be better scripts out
there. Don't waste your immense talent on lightweight scripts and
directors like this. This film was so bad, it is hard to know where to
start. How about the Air Marshal Service hiring a drunk cop fired from
a major police force? Never gonna happen. How about there somehow
magically appearing a hole from the lavatory to the secured cockpit?
And the air pressure being lower in the cockpit than the cabin -- which
is the opposite of the real world. How about the copilot assuring the
air marshal he would not unlock the cockpit door for the rest of the
flight then, 10 seconds later is seen in the doorway talking to a
flight attendant. How about bad guys intending to parachute from an
airliner with apparently no way to do so? How about the bad guys
counting on Liam Neeson's character killing another air marshal in a
fight -- and, for that matter, getting into the fight -- despite the
fact that supposedly Liam's character is a drunk and both men are
armed? And then there are the terrible special effects. Did they think
we would buy a blue screen with a model airplane behind the actors.
(Either that or really weak CGI). Come on. And the acting. Oh,the
acting. Sometimes they cut away from the face of a character, dub in a
line, then cut back to the face. Pretty transparent cover-up of
terrible acting and directing. And the actor supposedly flying the
plane looked like he was playing with his kid's toy. To reduce power
you pull, not push the lever, for example. No wonder he crashes an
apparently flyable plane (even the gear came down and all the controls
worked), and he was already in the flare to land. Beyond which, it was
getting pretty boring about an hour into it. The absurd and obvious
mis-directions throughout were not only obvious, they were like yelling
"Hey, this guy looks like a bad guy. I'll bet it's him." The script
would have read better if it was written as a thriller, not a mystery.
Tell us who the bad guy is and then the audience can yell "Look out!
He's behind you." Instead we were yelling, "Give me a break. This is
ridiculous already." This film would be a good candidate for the next
iteration of Mystery Science 3000 so at least we can get a laugh at the
awesome awfulness of it all.
