9
A Great Atmospheric Slow Burn that's not for everyone

DISCLAIMER: This film requires a patient viewer who likes slow burns
and atmospheric dread rather than jump scares or thriller action. Many
of the user reviews on here trash the movie for being too slow or too
boring, but this movie was never meant to appeal to everyone. If you
thought this was boring or too slow, everyone has different taste and
that's fine. First off, the biggest strength of this movie is the icy dread and
unease that this movie produces from the opening scene right up to the
tragic final shot. This tense atmosphere never relents, even during
mundane scenes, and left that dread in the pit of my stomach for the
entirety of the film. Everything feels like there's something not quite
right with it.The cinematography and lighting are dark and brooding, with every room
dimly lit and every setting having a sinister feel. This dreary feel to
all the scenes almost never lets up and keeps the dread at a maximum. The sound design is quite good, using prolonged silence to make scenes
feel uneasy and eerie sound effects and music to heighten tension and
fear. This is one of the loudest quiet movies I've ever seen, and the
subtle arctic winds blowing and faint whispers and static drone are
masterfully used. The setting and environment add another layer to the dread of the film.
Set in remote upstate New York in the dead of winter, the deep snow is
suffocating and chilling. You can really feel the isolation of the
school where Kat and Rose are staying, and the school itself is creepy
in its own right, with dark and foreboding hallways and a glum
exterior. The story is not spoon-fed to viewers and is a bit of a puzzle that
reveals itself one brief detail at a time, and it can be confusing on
the first viewing of it. It keeps you guessing as to what's happening,
and has some twists that make you rethink what you saw. The plot is
told in an odd fashion, with each main character having their own "arc"
in a sense and lots of brief flashbacks by Joan and Kat. The ending is
a good payoff for all the dread and tension built up, though a bit
rushed. The final shot is beautiful and haunting, and has stuck with me
ever since. Kiernan Shipka is very creepy and unsettling as Kat, and gives the best
performance in the film. Even those who did not like this movie gave
Shipka props for a wonderful job done. Emma Roberts steps into a
different role than she usually does, and does an excellent job as
Joan. Her body language said more than the few lines she has. The rest
of the cast also turns in solid performances, the acting in this is a
great strength next to its atmosphere.This is an excellent but polarizing slow burn non-traditional
possession horror film, and is impressive for Osgood Perkins'
directorial debut.
