9
Visually and emotionally lush with a great cast

Baz Luhrmann really has outdone himself in this film. The cast is
beautiful as is the script. The scenes are a visual feast. It is as if
Luhrmann reached into Fitzgerald's vision of the 20's, pulled out the
heart of it and merged it with what society is today, over nine decades
later. Alongside personal strife, we see social inequality, abuse of
drugs and alcohol, political and moral corruption, and the failure of
financial institutions and their responsibility to people. This film
will make you feel that these issues will always be relevant, and that
not much changes from generation to generation.The achingly romantic and hopeful Gatsby is played impeccably by
DiCaprio. He has aged into a beautiful man while still possessing those
boyish good looks. The beginning of the film has the viewer itching to
see Gatsby and hear him speak, and when he finally appears he holds on
and captivates throughout the film. The film may awaken something in
you, a memory of when you were crazy in love with a person or in love
with an idea for what your life should be. DiCaprio embodies a dream
and makes you root for him, even though he is shown to be a liar and a
man who is desperately trying to steal another's wife- all that does
not matter because we see the gentle child-like frailty in him and
identify with it. DiCaprio is an excellent actor and was perfect for
the role.I must say that I didn't think that Mulligan can pull the role of
Daisy, who in my mind was supposed to be a flawless beauty. However,
she didn't disappoint. It made Gatsby's love and desire for her even
more fascinating- she was beautiful to him and that's all that
mattered. Mulligan was able to play the spoiled and dazed rich girl
well, while adding an emotional dimension to the character. Tobey
Mcguire definitely held his own, and his story line had an interesting
deviation from the novel which was enjoyable. All in all I think it is
a must see this year for movie buffs.
