10
I was silenced after watching it

Wow, I would be lying if I said that I wasn't silenced after watching
this film. Really interesting subject matter. I am curious about the
book now. When I first heard about the film I thought it looked like a
modern "Andrei Rublev" set in Japan. Well, I was wrong about that. This
film is very much its own beast. These are my first impressions right
after seeing it.I didn't know much about the history of the Jesuit priests who traveled
all the way to Japan. I did know that some Japanese converted to
Christianity, but I didn't know there were that many. So, I was very
surprised by that. It does explain a lot though. I understand more of
the reasons why a civil war started in Japan that would ultimately lead
to any foreigner being banned from the country. It's actually very
interesting how the Japanese Christians almost feel more faithful than
a lot of the European characters.This film explores both the beauty and the horrors of humans and their
faiths. There are many beautiful calm scenes where you can relax and
admire the stunning sets and locations. Then there are many scenes that
will make you nervous, emotional and horrified because of the cruel
punishments that some people must endure.Religion is an interesting subject matter and everyone has their own
different view and opinion on it. I still haven't finished processing
this film yet, but I'll tell you this; it's something that will stay on
your mind for a while. It makes you think about a lot of things. Like
what's right and wrong about the different views brought up in the
film? And how would things have been different if everyone would have
accepted each others beliefs? And even if they didn't believe in the
same thing, could they all still live in peace?It's not an action packed adventure, but more of a spiritual journey
with exploration about morals, history and so much more. I thought it
was wonderful, but do see it if you can and judge for yourself.
