2
Not good.

First of all, the cinematography was garbage. I guess some directors
think that it looks good to film a movie as if it were filmed by an
amateur using a go-pro. Not only were the camera shots always shaky,
they weren't even good. Some shots just seemed pointless. As if some
high school first-time videographer was trying out shots that they
thought would look good, like putting the camera on the floor. How
creative. Not. Also, many shots seemed like they were zoomed in too
far, cropping focal points out of the scene. I personally don't think such camera techniques look good. They look
cheap. The idea of a movie is to sink in to it and "forget" you're even
watching a movie. Well, this camera person didn't have that concept in
mind. Not at all.Some videographers & directors take big risks trying out unique camera
shots, and for some films their experiments work out. But it many
others, they don't. And in this one, their unique camera style did not
work.And now going beyond the awful videography, I felt like the writing
wasn't even that great. And ontop of that, I felt that the acting
wasn't even that great. A real good movie has every cast member fitting
a scene. A lot of the characters felt like actors. It felt cheap.And besides the bad filming, poor-writing & sub-par acting, the movies
whole storyline seems to glorify criminal drug-runners & make them look
like a bunch of fun cool guys. In reality, that's not the case. The big
cocaine dealers are hard criminals. And furthermore, while the movie doesn't officially state that the CIA
themselves were smuggling cocaine, it's clear they were. And for
someone spin that as a good thing; pumping hard life-ruining narcotics
into neighborhoods that otherwise would have been void of drugs, is
absurd. Doesn't matter if they are "funding anti-communist matters".
Not only would such tactics be ultimately irrelevant to US taxpayers
interests, it in effect destroys US communities. All around I found this film to be poorly produced & a dismal portrayal
of any sort of realism. It's just a big Hollywood cool-guy party where
are the characters are hip sunglass wearing party animals having fun
swimming in money & enjoy life! There's no realism in the characters;
it's absurd. After one painful hour I left the theater. I read one reviewer saying "this is Tom Cruise's best film!"Wow. Obviously their film criticism has no value. To rate this film alongside Mission Impossible films, Jack Reacher,
Edge of Tomorrow, War of Worlds & Oblivion is totally absurd.Sadly I'd put this film in the same basket as "The Mummy".
