8
Five guys, 12 pubs, 50 pints!

Edgar Wright brings us the final installment of the Cornetto trilogy
with his most out-there comedy to date. The World's End is an
action-packed, sci-fi comedy where a number of familiar faces return to
help Gary King (Simon Pegg) achieve his lifelong dream and complete the
'golden mile' in their hometown of Newton Haven. Five guys, 12 pubs, 60
pints!I'd written a paragraph about the character's we see from previous
films but that'd spoil it a little. You're welcome. I think part of the
fun is spotting these for yourself and realising how close knit the
cast are... so moving swiftly on!As you'd expect, the film was cleverly written and it was a lot of fun
to watch. However, there's a reference a minute to Edgar Wrights
previous work which, for fans, isn't a bad thing, but newcomers to the
trilogy will struggle to keep up.Within the film, there are a number of stories and ideas going on here,
but don't let us spoil it for you. The World's End is out now and, for
veterans of the trilogy, well worth a watch! Nick Frost was a highlight for me, playing a different type of
character this time round and for the better. Usually the
happy-go-lucky friend, he plays a much more complex and leader type
role. With so many other great names in the film, there was a risk that
Nick Frost could fall in to the shadow of Martin Freeman, Paddy
Considine or Eddie Marsan (who was awesome by the way)... but he
doesn't. This is Frost's greatest film yet.If you haven't seen Shaun of the Dead or Hot Fuzz, it might be hit or
miss so check them out before this... it is the end of a trilogy after
all! Watching The World's End first would be like watching Return of
the King and, even though they're unrelated, you'll feel left out when
everyone starts laughing at a fruit machine playing in the background
and you have no idea why.The film will do well, regardless how good it is - it was a great
ending to the trilogy that started almost ten years ago. These have put
British cinema on the map. And even though it's a mixed review,
(ranging from a 6 to a 9 out of 10)... the golden mile sounds like a
great idea - who's up for it? DW.
