2
2 hours of sadism

I was hoping to really enjoy "12 Years a Slave" but wasn't expecting a
2 hr long movie of very long, ponderous slow camera shots of nature and
hardly any compelling dialog or character development. This was then
broken up seemingly every 10 minutes by a savage flogging or a vicious
rape or some other sadistic cruelty being inflicted on the movie's
hero, the hapless Solomon a freeman sold into slavery, and the other
slaves. Except for Brad Pitt's Canadian abolitionist and a gentleman
from Solomon's home town, virtually every white character in this movie
is portrayed as the very embodiment of evil. No nuance, nothing but
unremitting sadism.A lot of people seem to be comparing this movie to "Schindler's List"
although I can't understand why. In "List" you had the compelling story
of Schindler who, for reasons known only to himself, risks his life to
save as many Jews as he can. The Jewish prisoners are depicted as full
characters, people you know and care about. Even the Nazi played by
Ralph Finnes is given some depth, a man whose cruelty has been
unleashed and sanctioned by his Nazi bosses but, you suspect but for
the war would be a man who might be interesting to be around---a lover
of fine food, good wine and a roving eye for the women. But the slave
masters in "12 Years a Slave" don't have the slightest hint of anything
human about them, just treating people with cruelty for cruelty's sake.If filmmakers really wanted to make a powerful movie about slavery,
they might consider boldly making a new version of "Uncle Tom's Cabin"
and hew closely to the story that Harriet Beecher Stowe wrote. It's a
powerful book and it gets far deeper into the immorality of slavery
than anything like "12 Years a Slave" does. The memoirs that "12" was
based on came out soon after the huge success of "Uncle Tom's Cabin".
The opening scene of the slave-traders benignly discussing their
"wares" in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" was so chilling to read that I couldn't
even bear to read it through in one sitting. "12" had a similar scene
with the excellent Paul Giamatti as a slave-trader, but the movie never
got any deeper.
