9
Beautiful, fantastical love story.

Had the privilege to see this film at the San Diego filled festival
before premieres in theaters. Was very impressed and emotionally moved
very early on in the film. Well not quite on the level of ' The theory
of everything', movie will definitely tell that your heartstrings and
have you crying pretty quickly. Myself being disabled, especially
struck a chord for me to see how things used to be for people with
disabilities and made me thankful that I was born when I was in that
things have progressed so well in the last century. Andrew Garfield
gave him moving performance it as robin Cavendish. He better get his
Oscar speech ready. I also really enjoyed some aspects of the film that
are not addressed another disability films, namely the relationship
between the disabled and their children. This film does so it was
really devastate you when you get to see that Robin wasn't really able
to be there physically as a father to his son another power house is
claire foy.plays Robbins wife who is the one who advocates for him and
inspires him to keep going. This film also previews you to the horrors
disabled people had to live through before Robin and Diane became
advocates. While the ending of this film is not as uplifting as 'the
theory of everything', for some reason that movie devastates me much
more than this one did. I wonder if that had anything to do with who
was in charge of the film. This phone was produced by the couple's son
Jonathan, who basically made a love letter to his parents. You won't
see the trials and tribulations of being disabled as much here, just a
beautiful love story between two people. Highly recommend it.ETA: now that critical reviews of this film have come out, I am highly
insulted that critics wanted to see more of robin's struggles than
triumphs. i never believed the term 'inspiration porn' but i do now. it
disgusts me that people wanted to see the grittier side of robin's
illness. our health problems are not for you to exploit. i feel just
enough was shown to get the point.
