4
Is it possible to sue for being tricked into going to see this film?

One time my mom made a pitcher of iced tea. It was the summer and I
knew that later in the day it was going to get really hot, so letting
the tea chill in the refrigerator was perfect so I could come in the
house and have a refreshing beverage. The time came and I poured me a
glass, it was nice and cold too. I took a sip and immediately spit it
out. There was no sugar or lemon. I never had an experience like that
until I saw this movie. Bland, bland, bland. No flavor, no flavor, no
flavor.Now, of course, if you're an A-list actor like Will Smith and you're
filthy rich why not make a science fiction movie to help you're up and
coming son get better roles and push him into the acting world. That's
what parents do, so I'm not mad at that. But I just feel like the movie
could have been way better. I don't think it's an acting thing because
everyone knows that Will Smith can act and Jaden is good as we've seen
in Karate Kid and The Pursuit of Happiness. I believe that when you
have a situation where good actors act bad, it's all on the director.
Come on people, M. Night Shymalan hasn't had a good movie since The
Sixth Sense. When I saw that he was writing and directing this, I just
let out a deep sigh.The film could have been way more epic. An hour and thirty minutes is
just not enough time to do every thing that this film could have done.
The main storyline about father and son trying to build their
relationship after the death of their family member is a good one, but
it should have been a subplot to a bigger plot. There were some parts
where I was just uncomfortable with the acting and the delivery. There
was one part in particular where Jaden's character was running from
some creature and he yelled "Leave me alone!" Jaden who are you talking
to? Was that phrase in your cadet training? Do the animals speak
English or maybe you should try German? When he said that line, it's
just confirmed the overall cheesiness of the film and I knew there
wasn't a chance in the world that I could take it seriously. I didn't sense the real danger that we were built up to experience. I
think in every movie about being stranded on a deserted island, you
encounter some feline creature, a big bird trying to protect her eggs,
some poisonous bugs, a waterfall and a very dangerous creature that you
better run from because it can kill you. In a nutshell, the movie was
very predictable. In any Sci-Fi movie, you have the opportunity to
really be creative and come up with some cool concepts and things that
the audience has never seen before. It seems as if the filmmakers just
settled. IT's definitely a very good idea but overall, not good
execution. I didn't see how Earth became a dangerous place for humans,
it was just a jungle where some of the animals were a little bigger.One question, Jaden was wearing a very high tech suit. How come it
didn't have anything to help with temperature control? How come the
suit didn't have hand coverings to prevent from being bit by that
poisonous leech? Why didn't the suit have an oxygen mask? Why did they
only have staff? No guns or laser shooters? No shields? I don't know,
maybe it was just a prototype. Hahaha okay now I'm being facetious. Overall, I think it was a good attempt but definitely failed. Terrible
choice for a director and the movie could have been more bearable if
they cast other actors. If Will wants to bond with his son, they should
just go fishing, not make a terrible movie that they're not going to
get any profit off of. Save your money.
