1
Can't get any worse

*** Full of spoilers! ***It is a horror movie. False advertisement.No point, no purpose, no message, there is nothing else just pure evil
violence against women; who make retarded choices when their life
depends on it.The plot only exists to deliver the brutal mindless violence, killing &
raping.Except the evil villain, nobody is in control of their life. Everything
just happens to them, they have bad luck, they make painfully stupid
decisions. The evil villain is supernatural. He can teleport, mind
read, sharpsoot in a blizzard and sometimes can see the futureAt some point I was thinking if the villain is the devil himself. That
would at least explain the weird story. But even that kind of twist
couldn't save this movie from being terrible and pointless.There are too much continuity errors, plot holes to the point that it
is just an insult. Let me give you the best example:The first scene takes place in a small town, that has a new priest
arriving. Obviously the main character knows him, but she fails to warn
her husband about the following facts:1. He is her father, who was beating up and torturing her mother to the
point that she hanged herself 2. He murdered her first boyfriend that
she loved 3. He raped her 4. He was searching for her all over the
country for years to rape her again 5. He murdered her friend/colleague
6. She was the one who inflicted the cuts on his face and throat while
she was fighting for her lifeAnd she failed to mention ANY of the above. I mean what the f*ck?
Seriously? At this point I wish the producer, director & writer of this
movie would be shot in the head.This movie is only entertainment for people who like to torture others.
(That would explain the high score rating of this movie.)Unfortunately I can't un-watch this garbage. If you are not completely
devoid of emotions, the movie just leaves you feeling anger and
sadness.I don't recommend. Go and watch anything else. It can't be worse.
