2
A laundry day wasted.

I meant to stay home to do laundry and clip my toe nails. Compared to
this movie, that would have been a click-my-heels day filled with
delight and wonder. And, I would've been 10 bucks richer. After
watching this disappointing, would-be flick, i had to go to confession
and ask for forgiveness for being, yet again, a gullible, wasteful
consumer. I said two hail Mary's and watched Pacific Rim.Where to begin..Godzilla 98 gets a bad rap...for what? Many of those
reviews amounted to pretentious, unsubstantiated horse Shiite. That
movie towers over this one like a KaiJu crapping on the naive, hapless
rabble that see this movie.Do not be taken in by the shills who are paid to fill these pages with
paid, pseudo-positive reviews. The financiers, Et Al, of this
multi-million dollar mess have a band of callused-fingered monkeys hard
at work trying to convince you to throw away your hard-earned dollars
on this remake.I was concerned this would be a snooze fest from the get-go. Suspicion
confirmed when the director kills off his only other main asset,
besides the g-man, within the first 15 Min's. i e, Bryan Cranston. Way
to go. I would've blamed the writers for that genius decision but the
director controls the story -and, the lifespan of the actors.Pop Quiz : What's worse than a b-movie starring a guy in a giant lizard
suit? Answer : A $160 million dollar flick starring a cgi-guy in a
lizard suit.What gives? A director with cutting-edge technology and a Jillian
dollars at his disposal thinks it's about time we get a cgi equivalent
of a man in rubber monster costume. And, to add insult to injury, they
made him look like an everest-sized couch potato. Yet, another example
of how the makers of Godzilla '98 got it right. They gave us a mean,
lean intelligent monster. Now, that was a movie designed to entertain.
That freak was like the ultimate-fighting Godzilla, running circles
around the brainless American military. This godzilla, apparently, was awakend from a beer-drinking,
donut-eating binge due to an A-bomb that woke him up and made him look
for a job. Namely, clocking two low-tech tarantulas with an
over-stimulated pituitary gland. They probably woke him up from his nap
so he decided to have at it with them and do a quick beer-run while he
was up.They could've named this flick, "The Monster Beer Gut that Belched on
Las Vegas".This movie had very little action. What-the-EF? This is not suppose to
be a hallmark channel movie. It's a friggin' monster movie!! Hello! The
key word in that sentence? Monster! Where was he? They got the g-man
hiding out for the majority of the movie! And, when they finally decide
to grace us with his presence it's only for a few minutes.
Mind-boggling. I recommend you watch Pacific Rim and Godzilla '98 for
some solid monster entertainment.Don't even ask me about the transparent plot. Wait. Did i say plot? I
meant filler material. We've all seen this many times before.
Predictable story line, executed by over-used or under-used performers.
Take your pick. Hero has a beef with parent/child/love-interest. Then,
comes around after it's too late, only to save the day. Ever watch an
adult flick with a 90 min build up to a 10 second money shot. Bingo.
Only I'm still waiting for the payoff.A person can take just so much of a hand-wringing scientist or a
whimpering, clingy wife etc. If you've seen the trailer you've seen too
much. This flick belongs on the Saturday morning line-up for
4-year-olds. It's that dull.Tip of the Day : Go to the theater. Watch a nice, enjoyable movie.
Then, during a bathroom break, sneak over to catch the last few minutes
of Godzilla. That way, you've seen the whole movie, you've only wasted
5 Min's of your life -and, it's free.
