8
What a Start For Taylor Sheridan

Crime dramas have always been one of my favorite genres of filmmaking,
especially the ones that take themselves seriously and pose interesting
questions about life. Wind River takes the genre up in the cold, snowy
tundra of the Wind River Indian Reservation in Wyoming. Gritty, brutal,
and well-timed action, Wind River builds a simply structured crime film
into an important conversation about missing persons with a great
storyteller and one great cast.Coming from writing the likes of Sicario and Hell or High Water, Taylor
Sheridan is really making a career for himself. It's hard to imagine
it's the same guy who made those short acting cameos in Veronica Mars
back in the day, but Sheridan is separating himself from the pack in
terms of his writing skills. I won't say that Wind River reaches the
heights that either of his other two writing efforts did, but the sheer
power of the subject matter of this film may take this film into Oscar
season.Jeremy Renner stars as Corey Lambert, a man with a tragic past, teams
with Jane Banner (an FBI agent played by Elizabeth Olsen) to solve a
murder. It's easy to label Banner as the "out of place woman who needs
the help of a hardened man", because it can appear that way at first
glance. But I'll view it as two people who cross paths with each other
and end up working together to better their current situations. It also
doesn't hurt that both Renner and Olsen have pre- established chemistry
from the Marvel films, and dynamite together on screen.However, I do believe that Sheridan could have done a slightly better
job of directing the tone of Wind River. There were times where it
seemed the actors were giving endearing performances and monologues,
only to be sometimes interrupted by a subtle joke or a lighthearted
comment. I think that just a minor change in direction of his actors
would have changed those moments for the better. With that said,
Sheridan's brutal touch of action when the film calls for it is
impressive to say the least. It's those moments that helps put a
realistic layer to Wind River.Overall, Wind River is a grounded but moving take on murder, rape, and
missing persons cases. Solid performances, sharp script, and nuanced
storytelling, Wind River is a fascinating crime drama.8.0/10
