8
An Australian Classic.

'The Dressmaker' is not the type of film that instantly attracts me to
the cinema. It's the wrong genre, (although this movie is difficult to
place) the wrong story and it creates the wrong type of atmosphere.
Leave this to the women and go and see something a little
more.......you. How wrong I was and how glad I am to have jumped out of
my comfort zone. It was a good excuse to take my good old mum and treat
her to a midday-midweek viewing and some company with her first born or
that is what I told myself when I entered the theatre only to find it
filled with women and retirees excited to be out and about without the
frightening hording masses that congregate on weekends.'The Dressmaker' has been dubbed as the long awaited return of Director
Jocelyn Moorhouse to the chair since 1997 and she has delivered a film
that will be remembered for some outstanding performances from Judy
Davis, Hugo Weaving and Kate Winslet. I agree with the statement that
this film doesn't fit into any particular mold but this peculiar
inconsistency is what keeps the audience fixated on the screen. Just
when you think that the story is heading down a certain path it quickly
turns sideways, takes a detour before arriving at its intended
destination. Some viewers may find this lack of direction annoying and
even film destroying but I think this could be a little over dramatic.'The Dressmaker' holds a certain charm that never leaves it as it sways
back and forth from one type of genre to the next. It can be billed as
a 'black comedy' but it does allow the audience to experience an array
of emotions. At times you will be laughing at the antics on screen and
at other times you will be gripped by the drama unfolding.Based on the novel of the same name by Rosalie Ham, 'The Dressmaker'
centres around Myrtle 'Tilly' Dunnage (Kate Winslet) and her chaotic
return to a small Australian country town in rural Victoria in 1951.
Tilly's tumultuous departure years before were under controversial
circumstances and the small rural community have not forgotten. She is
everything the town isn't - sophisticated, stylish, experienced and
worldly and she has come back for one reason......to reek havoc on
those that callously betrayed her all those years ago.Kate Winslet rarely puts in a bad showing and her turn as Tilly Dunnage
is made even more exceptional with a flawless Australian accent. The
audience will forget that she is English as she seamlessly slides into
the fabric of her surroundings, not once slipping up when delivering
her dialogue. Judy Davis is the star of the show as Tilly's mad mother,
Molly Dunnage. Davis effortlessly steals every scene she is in with
outstanding engagement with a character that is a little bit off
centre. Judy will be recognised for this performance with an AACTA and
it will be thoroughly deserved.Hugo Weaving adds his superb presence as the cross dressing cop,
Sergeant Farrat. His character grows on the audience with eccentric
colourful manner, bringing the best out in Weaving that gives this
wonderful film an extra element of charm. Liam Hemsworth provides the
eye candy for the ladies in a solid role as Teddy McSwiney. Both Davis
and Winslet are caught hot under the collar on numerous occasions. He
is the stereo-typical tall, blue-eyed, rugged country boy who is the
proverbial apple in his mother's eye and does exactly what Moorhouse
hired him to do......stand there and look pretty. Good onya Liam.Joining the familiar talent is a who's who of Australian television
that many international audiences won't recognise but they do give the
film a more authentic Aussie flavour. Could this be the breakout role
for Sarah Snook? Her character Gertrude Pratt is totally transformed by
Tilly Dunnage only to treat the outsider with disdain when 'theories'
are whispered throughout the town.I cannot see any reason why this film won't be enjoyed by the masses.
It is Australian and its dry wit may not appeal to foreign markets
which is a shame. The narrative is all over the place but don't let
this put you off. Dig a little deeper and you will be rewarded with
some brilliant performances.
