2
Tolkien is turning in his grave

Admittedly, I am biased from having read the wonderful book, but it
looks like Peter Jackson has been writing his own story. He keeps
making up pointless crap as an excuse to add more CGI and more fighting
scenes. If you are looking for mindless fighting, zero dialogue, an
overuse of CGI that would leave James Cameron shaking his head in
disbelief, then sure, this movie is probably for you! However, if you
are looking for the same emotion and magic that the book brings out in
you, prepare to be disappointed, over and over again.Beorn is in the movie for about a minute and has the eloquence of a
donkey with autism. Mirkwood before the elves appear is barely five
minutes long. Which means the spiders disappear before they even got
the chance to appear, and there is no Bombur falling in the water, and
nothing to lure them off the path, they just get lost because they are
extremely dumb dwarfs. Orcs are chasing them wherever they go, and the
barrel- ride out of Mirkwood is a 20-minute long scene where nothing
really happens, except a lot of orcs die, and Kili gets shot with a
poisonous arrow(?). Then they bribe Bard into smuggling them past the
guards into Lake-town. Apparently Bards ancestor shot off a piece of
dragon scale under his left wing, so Bard already knows of the Dragon's
weakness. No thrush has to tell him anything... All the dwarfs race
into Smaug's lair and go on a rat-race in which Smaug is too brainless
to actually kill anyone, and when he has an absolutely obvious shot at
it, he suddenly has a change of heart and decides to let them live.
Also, four of the dwarfs are still in Lake-town tending to the poisoned
Kili and fighting orcs with the elves. Make sense? Not really, no. The
book has been torched, and Peter Jackson has rewritten it the way it
was (probably) intended; as a fighter-book with cool environments, cool
people who say cool things, cool dwarven caves and cool statues. The
things I have pointen out are only a few of the many changes and
disappointments from the movie. Who needs a good story with all this
CGI?The acting is dreadful, the dialogue is dreadful, the CGI is dreadfully
overused, the plot is dreadful (it's not the same as the book, believe
me.) But the dragon was pretty cool. So therefore: 2/10.
