1
READ THIS Review before purchasing VOD/itunes - Spoilers

I had heard a lot of hype concerning this film through Bloody
Disgusting and was eager to get this VOD when I discovered it was
available...this information again revealed by none other than Bloody
Disgusting. After sitting through incomplete and poorly executed short
after short, and as I try and figure out WHY this had so much buzz
about it...the credits roll. Who's name do you think comes up a TON?
Brad Miska! AKA Mr Disgusting, the guy that runs Bloody Disgusting.
This film is definitely bloody disgusting but not in the way you think.
I'm surprised Ti West was involved with this, though I don't care to
know which segment was his as they are all awful.Wrap-around: 30 something douchers acting like angsty pre-teens
inexplicably move from assaulting couples for the purpose of filming
boobs, to home invasion to find a VHS tape. We get into the group
dynamic when a heated discussion arises whether they should grow their
brand from filming boobs to filming asses as well, which inevitably
escalates to someone smashing a TV with a bat. Let it be known, that
it's strictly boobs -- and stealing creepy tapes -- from here on out.
They have no idea what tape they are supposed to take in a home filled
with 'creepy' tapes. Why are they still there?! There are way too many
tapes to take. They are all strange. They have no idea what they are
looking for. Let's sit down and watch some of the strange tapes? How
will that help you find this needle in a haystack. The most poor thing
about this wraparound...is that we never discovered the tape they were
looking for that might have shed light on this clumsy setup.First Tape: Definitely the strongest, though it ended very weirdly. I
thought the girl was some sort of feral cat-woman. The story plays this
up pretty nicely...and in the last 30 seconds throws that all out the
window revealing that she is full-on vampire with bat-wings...sigh. I
will reiterate that this is the strongest tale.Second Tape: Some newlyweds(?) go on a boring roadtrip. Of course they
must record every minute of this tired, banal odyssey. If you think the
level of contrivance for why the camera is running is high at this
point, just wait for the reveal...Third Tape: Awful. Kid's go to lake to get high and screw and get
massacred. The 'twist' is that one of the girls planned this to lure
out a madman that had killed her friends years ago. The second 'twist'
is that he's paranormal and can't be filmed. The third 'twist' is...I
dunno. If the first part of this short is a mess, the third act is the
inevitable mindless lobotomized result.Fourth Tape: Nothing in this one makes sense. It also isn't scary. The
characters are all annoying. I can't believe this even survived the
cutting room floor and made it in THIS horrible anthology.Fifth Tape: The finale! The tale is pretty lackluster and seems like a
student film project focusing on CGI effects work.Did I mention that the wraparound ended before the fifth tape was even
played? Sloppy at every step.Good one Brad Miska, you conned your entire community to make a quick
buck on your crappy film. No wonder you concealed the fact that this
was your aborted baby while punching it up all over Bloody Disgusting
for months.
