8
This is extremely difficult for me. Let me just start.

Yes, herein contains some of the most ravishing filmmaking of the new
millennium. The period details are abstract yet precise. The score has
a stark, primordial allure. It's post-WWII America: Psychologically
scarred veterans attempt to cramp themselves back into society. One is
loner Freddie Quell, adrift in emotional confusion. He's secured a gig
as a portrait photographer at a lavish department store imagined like a
temple of indulgent commercialism. But Freddie doesn't last long there.
In the darkroom, he screws models and chugs rotgut he makes with photo
chemicals. Ultimately, he loses it on a customer, not just hitting him
but harassing and lambasting him, working out some indecipherable,
irrepressible rage.Phoenix's performance as Freddie reduces all he's done before to a
preparation exercise. He longs for something, but even he can't tell
you what, and that sorrow has clotted into self- destructive ritual. We
see his snarly face from angles we haven't seen before. We're not sure
if his leery eyes are hateful or if he's dead inside. He's a
captivating animal.Then he meets stout, articulate Lancaster Dodd, always circled by
people who treat him like a prodigy, hanging on his every word,
laughing at all his mugging. Lancaster fancies himself a renaissance
man. He's married to Peggy, who's much more vigilant than we first
think. His son trails the proceedings with a dormant pose of derision.
His daughter marries a man who, like everyone else in their clique,
views him as a wizard.The film belongs to Phoenix, but Hoffman more than does his thing, his
affectations ringing with conceit and fraudulence. Freddie---father
dead, mother institutionalized---is naturally drawn to Dodd, who
promises answers, mental freedom, happiness, even claims to cure
leukemia. He's written a book his bootlickers treat as a sort of bible.
He loves to charm and perform.It's well-known that Lancaster's cult is inspired by L. Ron Hubbard's
Scientology. It's not direct, but the manner in which Lancaster draws
Freddie into the fold, among other things, is unmistakably influenced
by the contentious institution and Hubbard's life. Paul Thomas Anderson
doesn't bind to that inspiration for his movie...but he doesn't bind to
anything, really. You walk out muddled, wearied, wondering where to
start in connecting the dots in this elegant, arresting movie. The
story is as confounding as its technique is magnificent.Anderson, the true wunderkind of the Tarantino generation, sets
everything up so beautifully, you wait for the turning point to prevail
so the intrigue can come to boil. Instead, nothing progresses. The
dramatic developments seem to dwindle and become less consistent as the
movie drifts along, and Anderson throws in pauses, like a lingering
desert scene or an outstretched montage in which Freddie is made to
pace in a room, that slow the movie to a drudge. Freddie's sex
preoccupation, which was stressed in the film's early stretch, grows
dissonant. It's less about narrative arc and more the emotional
condition of two men, a twist of trust and mistrust, id and superego.
PTA's vision is grand in scope, but his result is not so much ambiguous
as opaque and detached.For the first time in his immaculate career, the greatest filmmaker of
his generation seems to languish. His newfound frigidness makes the
film easy to admire but difficult to love. Anderson is so stunningly
impressive, in fact, that it's taken me two viewings of The Master to
admit all this to myself. Understandably, some critics have patronized
it as deliberately evasive and occult, but isn't that just double-talk?
A glorification of an artist's failure to proportionately bear his
ideas? Something particularly intriguing is how the movie poses
questions not so much about the importance of faith, but how far the
human limit for change can extend and to confront emotional devastation
so heavy it can never recover. But the film is too ambivalent or
cautious to probe them in depth. By the end, it's become an opaque
challenge between two phenomenal actors whose commitment to their roles
is awe-inspiring, but it's manacled to a work so in awe of itself, the
audience gets blockaded.
