7
An original take on the superhero movie; silly perhaps – but great fun

After the many scathing reviews, I went to this film with very mixed
feelings. I certainly didn't expect serious Sci-Fi – after all, I had
seen the trailers – but I actually wasn't quite sure what to expect
(and I'm not sure I would have gone to see it at all, If it hadn't been
directed by Luc Besson). Well, maybe it's just because I expected to be
disappointed, but I was pleasantly surprised. 'Lucy' delivers a fast
paced, crazy ride from start to finish, and I'm frankly a bit shocked
so many people seem to hate this film with so much passion. Hadn't they
seen the trailers? I thought it was clear from the get-go that this
film was first and foremost meant as entertainment (and it certainly
doesn't pretend to be the new '2001').If 'Lucy' were based on a comic book, I highly doubt people would be
criticising it as harshly as they are. Let's be honest: from a
scientific point of view, the stories of Captain America, Superman,
Thor, the Hulk, Iron Man, Spider Man and the X-Men are all
enthusiastically silly. None of these stories are even remotely
realistic - and they were never meant to be: that's why they call them
"SUPER-heroes". So how come so many film fans take the "10% of the
brain" premise so very, very seriously? I mean, this is Luc Besson:
'The Fifth Element' was just as over-the-top and most people seemed to
have really enjoyed it (at least at the time; maybe now it would also
get shredded to pieces for "lack of realism"). The way I see it, 'Lucy'
is simply Besson's take on the superhero movie (towards the end of the
film, the title character actually comes across like a fun, female
version of Dr Manhattan).Granted, many aspects of 'Lucy' ARE very silly, but visually the film
is absolutely stunning and it at least tries to tell an original story
and throws in some very interesting philosophical (and yes: even
scientific) concepts and questions. So not unlike the films based on
Marvel or DC comics, this is a wild mix of Fantasy, Sci-Fi and Action
elements – and what's so wrong with that all of a sudden? If you watch
it for what it is – a fun, fast summer movie with inventive visuals – I
don't see why you wouldn't enjoy it. Quality-wise, this certainly isn't
'The Matrix' or 'Blade Runner', for sure (but hey: what is?), but
'Lucy' is still packed with enough creative ideas and great action
scenes to get your money's worth. Plus it features Morgan Freeman and
an absolutely gorgeous Scarlett Johansson.So my verdict: It's rare enough these days to get an original
Fantasy/Sci-Fi tale with a decent budget in the first place – let alone
one for grown-ups with an R-rating. It may not be as good as it could
have been (and it does feel a bit rushed), but it is very far from the
catastrophic mess many critics make it out to be. As far as I'm
concerned, 'Lucy' is a fun, crazy ride from start to finish. 7 stars
out of 10.Favorite Films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/In an ideal world, movies would be made without the aim for a certain
rating. This article sums up why this is so important:www.the-fanboy-perspective.com/the-importance-of-the-r-rating.html
