9
Fantastic Halloween Fun!  Superb Animation

It's October and it is usually the time for Halloween themed movies.
Unfortunately for us, Halloween has been reduced to cheap horrors, or
repetitive thrillers that are a bit of a bore. This year has been
slightly different, but this reviewer would like the studios to go back
in the past and pull some more seasonal themes to entertain us. Well,
someone got my vibe, because my last review is on a film that captures
the festive fun that Halloween is for the young and young at heart. So
sit back my friends and catch my latest review on the animated feature
The Book of Life. I'll start this review with talking about the story. The Book of Life
has a fantastic tale that centers on the typical complication of a love
triangle between characters Manolo (Diego Luna), Maria (Zoe Saldana),
and Joaquin (Channing Tatum). Now we know the typical elements involved
in this type of plot, but this film deviates from the typical and gives
a little more pep around the story. From the start you get the
backstory on each character, and the individual struggles they each
face. Then they take these qualities and exploit them by bringing in
the two masters of the underworld, who make a wager as to who will win
the girl. The result of this wager, makes for an interesting romantic
tale that is fun, emotional, and more realistic than half the dramas we
get these days. However, the movie does not stop there, instead it ties
in an adventure and blends it into all the aspects, making for a fun
film. Once more, the whole tale revolves around the Mexican celebration
of the day of the dead, bringing a unique take on the classic Halloween
tale and providing a little education as well. The story isn't the only thing influenced by the Mexican culture
though, the artistic style of the movie is also heavily influenced. The
Book of Life is sort of a modern day Nightmare Before Christmas where
CGI takes the place of stop motion animation. Many of the elements are
similar, with the skeletons and landscapes sharp and angular to mirror
the darkness of the afterlife. However, unlike Tim Burton, this
director chose to liven things up a little by veering from the dark
colors and adding wide splashes of colorful. This is not only to catch
your eyes, but also to mirror the celebration that Day of the Dead is
about and that life doesn't end as long as you are remembered. In the
Underworld especially the color comes out, and the festivities are
brought to full fold in the magical realm of the dead. Deep in the land
of the Forgotten, the oblivion of elimination is presented by a frozen
cavern where hope is nonexistent. Regardless, the worlds are diverse
and fun, filled with ancient Central American influences that were a
welcomed change. Even the characters have pizazz to them, each main
character standing out in their own unique way. I in particular liked
the Queen of the underworld, impressed with the blend of partying,
happy, and death all wrapped into one package. The ruler of the
Forgotten Land, was also of unique design, sharp, dark edges in shades
of purple, neon green, and crimson to portray the darkness of his soul. What else makes this movie fun? The next aspect is the comedy, which
for the most part is well timed and well delivered. There isn't much
unique writing or witty humor in this movie, but more in how it is
delivered. Countless puns are shouted in ridiculous voices, often
followed by a character face planting into an object. What's even
better is that the comedy is also diverse and spread out instead of
following the typical style of beating a joke to death, the exception
being Joaquin's obsession with mustaches. In addition to the comedy,
the music also brings some thing to the film. Most of the numbers are
covers of famous songs, some done horribly to be funny and others that
are very relevant to the plot. A couple of the original numbers made my
emotions go on a ride, as happiness, sadness, and even love all came
together in the instruments and voice. Now most won't find it as
powerful as Frozen, but for this reviewer it was nice having the music
around the movie, not the opposite way around. Aside from the singing,
the voice acting is incredible, each of the cast capturing the essence
of the stereotypical Mexican character. Now there are too many to write
about so let me pick my three favorites. First is Christina Applegate,
the girl has got sass, spunk, and compassion all at work in her tour
guide character. The girls sells the story as she uses the wooden
puppets, which are represented in the character design, to craft the
tale, keeping the kids in line, and yet showing empathy. Then there was
Zoe Saldana who has the feisty Mexican girl zest that shows everyone
girls don't need men to save them. Her voice is suave and full of
passion, and exactly the buffer needed amidst the rowdy, rough voices
of the cast. Finally the Queen of the Dead was my favorite character,
and Kate del Castillo does a nice job bringing the character to life
with flare, kindness, and the ability to hold her own. What can you take away from my sporadic rambling? The Book of Life is
one of the better animated films I've seen in a while. It's Halloween
fun, with colorful worlds and characters that balance out the
predictable and limited tale. I strongly recommend seeing this movie in
theaters, possibly in 3-D. I haven't had this much fun at the movies in
quite some time, and I believe most will enjoy the adventure at hand.
My scores for this film are: Animation/Adventure/Comedy: 9.5 Movie Overall: 9.0
