10
Α Film that Respects Paul Walker

Even i have never see the other Fast & Furious films series to know the
story line. Even it has the many Clichés of Action Films. But for what
it is,is a Pretty Awesome Film (Especially for the Series)If you not are fan of this series,that OK (but don't you dare to say
something bad about Paul Walker) If you are not familiar of the series
i cant help you with that ,all i can do is tell you to see the films
seriesThis film is still on Theaters so i am not going to spoiler most of the
middle & the ending because is really worth it to see it with out
knowing much.So what is so good about this film? Let's have a lookStory:This film taking place after Fast & Furious 6 Ending. In this one
is about Deckard Shaw seeks revenge against Dominic Toretto and his
family for the death of his brother and that is the hull story ,is the
hull revenge story cliché and well it really works for this film
because the main villain of this film is really good ,you know why is
angry and why he want to kill Dominic Toretto and his family the story
it has is really sad and you fell so sorry about this guy. speaking of
whichCharacters:Most are the original actors you like of this series are
still here and we also have some new actors in this film and all of
them are awesome. But let's talk about the big once (in my opinion) and
that is Jason statham & paul walker Jason play as the main new villain
of this series it was really cool in this roll,i was a little afraid it
was going to sting in the roll of a villain because i have never see
him play the roll of a villain but after i watch this film it was
awesome in this roll it was a really good choice i enjoy every min of
him. Paul play as Brian it was also really good and it was a good thing
to see him one last time,i was really worried what are they going to do
here because Paul died before will make the news there going to do
other Fast & Furious ,to make a film without one one of main actor it
was impassable but what they did,they have done amazing job. As for the
rest of the others they all great and they did amazing job too. (and as
for Nathalie Emmanuel is really hot)CGI:The CGI is Unbelievably Awesome if i watch this film on 3D it will
way more awesome & look really real. This one has the most awesome car
chases,the best fight scenes & the most awesome action scenes of this
series.(in my opinion) My favorite of them all is when the fall of a
plane and they were after a truck with mini-guns.Overall this new one of this series is in my opinion the best of this
series and it is really enjoyable to watch it with friends and 3D when
he come on 3D. Even it has a lot of the clichés we see in other action
films,it makes something new and fresh to be enjoyable & watchable AND
MOST IMPORTANT IT USE PAUL WALKER PERFORMANCE RESPECTFULLY THAT FOR THE
FANS IT GOING TO BE WONDERFUL.5/5 10/10 98/100 and 5 stars and will give it 5 Oscars to use the death
Actor Performance respectfully
