1
I wish I could rate it ZERO

WARNING: THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS!Netflix's Death Note - SPOILER Review.I believe a movie THIS bad deserves to be completely spoiled, if
anything to be avoided like the plague.Director Adam Wingard has achieved the impossible, he has taken the
title of "Worst live-action manga adaptation" away from Dragonball:
Evolution. DBE doesn't even come close to the complete disregard of
source material this horrendous movie is guilty of.Nat Wolff's Light Turner is nothing like Yagami Light from the manga.
Light Turner is a bullied kid who starts his killing spree with a
bully. Besides that he is a scarily child who is in way over his head
with the book he's been bestowed upon so he reveals his secret to his
High School crush, a cheerleader named Mia Sutton (Margaret Qualley),
which we are supposed to believe that on the mere sight of the book
becomes a raging psychopath that wants to kill everyone, and I mean
everyone she feels like, and this was supposed to be the new version of
Misa, right?All the intelligence, all the cold and calculating aspects that made
Yagami charismatic are completely gone, instead of Death Note we get
"The Killer Diary of a Wimpy Kid."But nothing compares to what's done to L. The famous detective who is
also cold, incredibly intelligent, and astute, is horribly played by
Keith Stanfield as a maniac, and frenzy detective vigilante of sorts.
Too many times in the film he loses it and even comes close to
murdering Light in cold blood, either by running him over with a car or
by shooting him. That is something L would never do.The book has about 70 rules, and they are revealed when it is
convenient to the plot. And not even Willem Dafoe's Ryuk can save this abomination, his
character appears like 10 minutes of the film, and Ryuk is not a bored
Shinigami anymore, in this version he is a sadistic god of death who
enjoys seen people die.Adam Wingard is a complete hack, someone who either did not understand
the manga, or thought of himself better and more capable to tell this
story than the original writers. His movie is not even worthy to be called Death Note, it is barely
worthy to be called a movie as it is an outright blasphemy to the manga
and the anime. It is by far the worst live-action adaptation I have
ever seen.I rate it 1 out of 10, simply because I cannot rate it lower on IMDb. I had to watch it hoping I was wrong, but I encourage you to stay away
from this filth.
