10
An amazingly real story of what it's like to be a teenager.

I'm currently in my final year of high school, and happened to stumble
upon this movie as my high school experience is several weeks away from
being over. My apologies for being original, but this movie changed my
life and my outlook on everything. Almost immediately after I finished,
I wanted to re-watch it and experience it again, and a week later I'm
still hung up on it. Well what made this movie so special begins with
the role of Sutter Keely, played by Miles Teller, and boy did Miles
Teller give one of the greatest performances of his young career. I had
always been a fan, but Miles played Sutter with such realness that it
truly felt like you were watching Miles' last year of high school. The
marvellous thing about the character of Sutter is he's the kind of guy
you're not supposed to like, he's bold, selfish, loud, and drinks a
fair share of alcohol. But it's all these qualities that make him so
great, because like anyone, Sutter has flaws, but he is one of the most
genuine, sweet, and funny characters I've ever had the pleasure of
watching. When Aimee is introduced to the movie, she seems like your
average girl, but she's far from it. Aimee is intelligent, kind,
adorable, and absolutely beautiful. But how would anyone ever know?
Nobody notices her, Sutter went to the same school as her and couldn't
seem to remember her name. Being in high school, I look around
sometimes and see so many great people that are strictly viewed as
lesser simply because they're not popular.Well, in John Hughes style, this film gives awareness to the fact that
there are some amazing people out there, and you just have to look past
their popularity to see them. Fatefully, Sutter and Aimee meet and all
social hierarchies are thrown out as the two have an electric
connection. The challenging part of the movie is that you are left to
determine whether Sutter loves Aimee, feels bad for her, uses her as a
rebound to get over Cassidy, or if he truly doesn't know. In addition
to this, Sutter doesn't have a care in the world about the future, and
while it's refreshing, Aimee is the kind of girl who deserves to be
involved in someone's future, and it is unclear whether Sutter is ready
to make that commitment. When it comes to Aimee, there's no question,
Aimee loves Sutter immensely and would make any sacrifice necessary to
be with him, even if she should be looking out for herself. When you
analyze it to every detail, Sutter isn't great to Aimee, he's the best
she's had, but he is madly in love with her one day, and brushes her
off the next. After watching the movie several times and being able to
relate to Sutter, I know he loves her, probably more than he would ever
admit. The thing is, while he's your average, outspoken, popular kid, he knows
that he would be holding Aimee back and that she deserves better. As a
viewer, your insides are screaming at him, 'Sutter just change, be the
man she needs!' or 'Don't leave her, she needs you more than you
realize! You love each other'. But Sutter can't, or doesn't believe he
can. Thankfully, Sutter has a revelation that the only reason he's a
'distant' boyfriend or not good enough for Aimee, is himself. And when
he realizes that the only thing that's ever held him back has been
himself, he vows to change and begins to live in the now, and cherish
every moment. I think the beauty of this revelation is a lot of us
create self-imposed barriers, which we chose to believe we cannot get
through, when in reality you can always be the change you want to see.
Sutter realizes this, and whether its too late for him and Aimee is
uncertain, but I sure hope its not because life is short, and if
there's a lesson from this movie its to not let your desires get away,
chase what you want, be around people who make you laugh, strive for
sincerity, and above all else, live in the moment because you'll never
be as young as you are right now.The Spectacular Now manages to embody all of these lessons, and through
this movie, I feel I have grown with Sutter, and all I can say is that
the film may make you want to redo your teenage years, but that's okay
because in a way you lived through Sutter and Aimee. The Spectacular
Now is an incredible film and is definitely worth a watch. I loved it.
