1
HYPNOS Almost Got Me

To rate It Comes at Night just 1 is harsh, acting and production value
(tv-scale) is okay to good, but this movie is/was sold as a horror or
mystery movie to me. Not once I felt suspense, horror, shock,
adrenaline, whatever emotion or kick. Would they have marketed me the
movie as a family-drama with some flu in it, well, maybe I would have
decided to give a generous 3 or even a skyrocketing 4. But, as I
expected horror and mystery and there was almost none (maybe 1.5%) it
is 1. In the first hour, I almost lost the battle against HYPNOS, the
mighty ancient Greek god of sleep. Maybe I just should have given in to
his powers, none of my dreams are that, well, boring.Whatever terror is haunting the world depicted in this movie, in my
opinion, it is the ultimate terror of the ultimate boredom. A death
more cruel as being burned, drowned and hammer-smashed at the same time
and on top losing one's virginity to Vlad, the Impaler. Well, for an experimental short (around 90 secs) the story maybe could
have worked but not for a full grown up movie. The night is full of
terrors and too much time we just follow some young dude with a slim
notion of pursuing a daring career as a Peeping Tom. Oh, may the world
fall down, but at least give man enough women to make some more babies
;) Well, the Western society is really on the downhill, one bad movie
after another, I can't remember such bad years like 2016 and till now
2017 with such much bad and redundant movie-making. Every connoisseur
of fine red wine would have already switched to whiskey pronto or would
quit drinking completely if a vintage year would taste that bad. Maybe
I should read old books (the new ones are terrible too) and not waste
my time with "movies". Or I just shoot myself out of pure self-defense
against the ultimate boredom this planet seems to head for. And all the praise by so-called pro-critics for this mediocre and
redundant movie makes me almost speechless. But wonder I should not,
did my poor eyes not see a few weeks ago a list of the best horror
movies of all time (based on pro critics and their ratings, if you
don't believe it: BEST HORROR MOVIES OF ALL TIME is the list called)
with Get Out (2017) as numero uno (Shining is 75, Jaws 15, Evil Dead
22), and this on Rotten Tomatoes. This massive inflation of 8s up to
10s or 80 up to 100 percent ratings may have two main reasons: 1) most
of the critics are brain-dead, 2) they get a lot of Champagne, girls
(boys), and other nice stuff for their nose, aehm, "work". Maybe both
reasons are interacting somehow - and maybe watching every day bad
movies make the less bad movies Oscar material. My conclusion, there is
more rotten than just tomatoes in these sad days of decadence and
cultural erosion ;)Last words: I suggest just ignore my review and watch It Comes at
Night, afterward watch The Road (even if you already watched The Road)
and I bet you will understand me.
