10
Incendiary, chilling, hilarious, daring, staggering.

Filth is a film that relentlessly pummels you emotionally,
psychologically and visually for almost two hours straight, both whilst
bludgeoning your funny bone until your sides split, and sneaking up on
you with a really tragic aspect that you never saw coming. It's based
on a novel claimed to be unfilmable (heard that one before lol) by
Irvine Welsh, who also wrote the book that became Trainspotting. It
concerns Scottish detective Bruce Robertson (James Macavoy in a
towering portrait of disturbing mental decay) who has seriously,
irreparably lost his way. He's the smartest piggy in his department,
striving for an unattainable promotion that in his mind will gain him
back his estranged wife, who shows up in strange sequences that make
more sense as the narrative vomits forth. He's a total raging mess
though, a philandering alcoholic double crossing lunatic who shags
anything with a pulse and consumes enough cocaine to make the Wolf Of
Wall Street look like Sesame Street. He's seriously in distress, for
reasons that ever so slowly become clear, hazed over by a feverish,
stylistic excess that showcases some truly compelling filmmaking that
calls to mind the works of people like Wayne Kramer or Tony Scott.
Piled upon his rampant substance and sex abuse, or perhaps lurking just
beneath it, is a festering mental illness, spurred on by avoidance of
taking his meds, supplied by precinct shrink Jim Broadbent, extremely
unsettling in surreal, hallucinatory scenes apparently taking place in
Bruce's own over cooked psyche. He's involved with the spouses of
several of his co workers, including shrill voiced nympho Bunty
(Shirley Henderson, Moaning Myrtle from Harry Potter), wife of an oh so
naive colleague of his, played by incomparable Eddie Marsan. Members of
his squad range from dimwitted (Gary Lewis), to revolted and
sympathetic (Imogen Poots, excellent) to just plain befuddled (John
Sessions). Macavoy pulls the whole film together like a coked up mother
hen leading along a demented circus of inimitable style and cinematic
excess. Buried beneath his ego tripping rampage of injustice and
nihilism is a bone deep sorrow that's only subtly hinted at, making it
all the more poignant, for both his character and the movie. One of the
most fascinating, captivating and horrifying pieces of film in the last
decade.
