7
It is flawed and by no means anywhere near on the same level as D9 but its solid entertainment and a smarter than average sci/fi film.

Matt Damon stars in the Sci-fi/political thriller Elysium, Neill
Blomkamp's follow up to District 9, along with Jodie Foster as
Elysium's Secretary Delacourt and Sharlto Copley as the main villain
Kruger. Is Elysium on par with Oscar nominated District 9? Absolutely
NOT! Not even close but it is still a solid sci/fi entertainment. It is
a more conventional film than its predecessor, which I was not
expecting from Blomkamp.The film starts of very cliché and gave me some eye roll moments but it
quickly picks itself up from reaching into mediocrity. They way it does
this is by evoking political messages through out the film in relevance
with today's society. Questioning our handling with immigration,
military power, our health care. Which I found to be important in this
film. Obviously me and Blomkamp share each others political stance. For
anyone else it might seem like its trying to oversell its message.I felt most of the cast were very under used. Jodie Foster's character
really didn't have much to work with. She was just there to move the
plot forward. Matt Damon served his purpose as the lead but by no means
of the imagination is this one of his best performances. They were all
over shadowed by Sharlto Copley. My God, is he great as Kruger! Right
away we are introduced into this provocative-sociopath with no regard
for human life. The story really needed this kind of menacing
character. He is by far the film's best positive. Another negative
aspect of this film would be its pacing. When we are given emotional
scenes they don't stay long enough to settle and doesn't give that
emotional impact you were hoping for.Like District 9 it delivers on the the beautiful imagery. Using the
very best Weta Workshop has to offer. From its big guns to the
human-like robots, to the space station of Elysium. The action set
pieces were just as exciting as its predecessor. The film really
manages to capture all its budget on screen. My biggest issue comes
from the excessive use of shaky cam. It was used when the characters
were simply walking to the action sequences. I felt ninety percent of
this film was shaky cam. Which got me a little dizzy since I
,unfortunately, got to sit in the very front of the theater. That might
have something to do with it as well.Neill Blomkamp has established once again that he can compete with the
best Directors of the genre films. Elysium shows more flaws than his
first film but they are overwhelmed by its positive aspects, to me at
least. It was not a disappointment and it was a solid popcorn
entertainment and a smarter than average sci/fi film.
