6
Eat your Fish

Greetings again from the darkness. Tracy Letts had a very nice year in
2008. He won the Pulitzer Prize and a Tony for writing the play August:
Osage County. Since then, he has also written the play and screenplay
for Killer Joe, and been seen as an actor in the key role of a Senator
in the TV show "Homeland". This time out, he adapts his own play for
director John Wells' (The Company Men, TV's "ER") screen version of
August: Osage County.With an ensemble cast matched by very few movies over the years, the
screen version begins with what may be its best scene. Weston family
patriarch and published poet Beverly (the always great Sam Shepard) is
interviewing Johnna for a position as cook and housekeeper when they
are interrupted in stunning fashion by Violet (Meryl Streep), Beverly's
acid-tongued wife who is showing the effects of chemotherapy and her
prescription drug addiction. This extraordinary pre-credits scene sets
the stage for the entire movie, which unfortunately only approaches
this high standard a couple more times.Despite the film's flaws, there is no denying the "train-wreck" effect
of not being able to look away from this most dysfunctional family.
Most of this is due to the screen presence of a steady stream of
talented actors: in addition to Streep and Shephard, we get their 3
daughters played by Julia Roberts (Barbara), Julianne Nicholson (Ivy)
and Juliette Lewis (Karen); Ewan McGregor and Abigail Breslin as
Roberts' husband and daughter; Margo Martindale (Violet's sister), her
husband Chris Cooper (Charles) and their son Benedict Cumberbatch.As with most dysfunctional family movies, there is a dinner table scene
... this one occurring after a funeral. The resentment and regret and
anger on display over casseroles is staggering, especially the incisive
and "truth-telling" Violet comments and the defensive replies from
Barbara. As time goes on, family secrets and stories unfold culminating
in a whopper near the end. This is really the polar opposite of a
family support system.Meryl Streep's performance is one of the most demonstrative of her
career. Some may call it over the top, but I believe it's essential to
the tone of the movie and the family interactions. Her exchanges with
Julia Roberts define the monster mother and daughter in her image
theme. They don't nitpick each other, it's more like inflicting gaping
wounds. Surprisingly, Roberts mostly holds her own ... though that
could be that the film borders on campy much of the time. Streep's
scene comes as she recalls the most horrific childhood Christmas story
you could ever want to hear.It must be noted that Margo Martindale is the real highlight here. She
has two extraordinary scenes ... each very different in style and
substance ... and she nails them both. Without her character and
talent, this film could have spun off into a major mess. The same could
be said for Chris Cooper, who is really the moral center of the family.
While the others seem intent on hiding from their past, he seems to
make the best of his situation.The film never really captures the conflicting environments of the old
Weston homestead and the wide open plains of Oklahoma. The exception is
a pretty cool post-funeral scene in a hayfield where Roberts tells
Streep "There's no place to go". The main difference between the film
version and stage version is the compressed time and the decision to
include all explosive scenes. There is just little breathing room here.
Still, it's one of the more entertaining and wild dysfunctional
comedy-dramas that you will see on screen, and it's quite obvious this
group of fine actors thoroughly enjoyed the ensemble experience.
