10
Style over substance but it's worth it

OK I have to admit this is a film with great style but not much
substance and yet I loved it.The original Cinderella is one of my least favorite Disney romances for
how plain it is and nothing fixed here in that aspect but it's almost
impossible to fix Cinderella so not much complaining here. Nothing they would have done could have worked.But what it lacked on substance was compensated by great style and the
getting the perfect actor for each role.for the first time the actors they picked for Cinderella and the prince
look like people coming from a Disney Fairytale.Lily James is such a beautiful actress with a lot of Grace and Richard
Madden is really dreamy and well Charming. Cate Blanchett was very well cast as the very classy but evil step
mother and actresses and the actress picked for the evil step sisters
were spot on. Now the spectacular visuals and the scenes which made this movie a
masterpiece. Looking like real Disney Fairytale. 1 Ella Meeting her fairy godmother and preparing to get to the Bawl Elena Bonham Carter was a great pick to play the fairy godmother who
was very funny at being not that expert on her magic and having a few
mistakes at the beginning giving it some humor to that scene.I have to say this scene was breath taking with Carriage looking great
the transformation of the animals to horses and people to help
Cinderella go to the Bawl. Ohh and the transformation of the dress was jaw dropping, you see
Cinderella being impressed and feel like she was in a dream having such
a beautiful gown which does look like one made for a princess. The glass sleepers were the perfect touch to such a beautiful dress. The Bawl scene it was more than perfect. Cinderella arriving, kit
recognizing her and their dance just perfect. The chemistry between
them and the way they dance looked effortless. Just that scene scene
gives the movie 8 points. Cinderella and Kit had great chemistry you them happy and enjoying
every single second they were togetherLast but not least. Cinderella Trying the glass slipper and proving she
was the girl who danced with the prince to latter them getting Married
and Ella having another beautiful gown which makes her look like a
Disney princess. As you can see This a film completely saved by three great moments
which make you feel The Disney Magic and why it gets a 10/10 even if
the story is a dull and plain as they come.
