3
Propaganda Aside This Really Is Just A Bad Movie

So I'll start off by saying that I actually liked the original Purge, I
know many people were expecting it to be a bit bigger and to expand
more on the premise but I still enjoyed it and thought it was a pretty
fun Horror/Thriller. Then the second Purge (which really wasn't a
sequel, more of just a separate movie set in the same universe apart
from one little tie in) came out and I enjoyed that one as well,
however I thought it was a bit more cheesy than the original and it was
really more of an Action/Thriller than a horror movie. I was pretty set
with those two, I didn't think there was any need to continue on with
the franchise, but we rarely ever get big release horror movies anymore
so I decided to just suck it up and give The Purge: Election Year a
chance.So the premise was actually pretty interesting, a Senator whose family
was slaughtered in front of her on Purge night is running for president
in an effort to stop the Purge. However from there things start to get
really really stupid. Since her opposition wants to keep her out of
office they decide to disband the law that protects political officials
on Purge night, thus making her fair game. When this news is shared
with the Senator she decides that instead of locking herself up in a
safe house (which would keep her and her dream to stop the purge alive)
she'll just put the life of herself and the lives of her security team
in jeopardy by just hanging out at her house on Purge night. This is
one of many stupid decisions made by the Senator, and that is one of
the main reasons why I found it very hard to root for her. Luckily she
has a bad ass security guard (the main character from the second film)
who is there to rescue her when things go south on Purge night, from
there the film basically just becomes a rinse and repeat of the second
film. There is also a sub plot about a extremely cookie cutter deli
owner who will do anything in his power to protect his deli.I think my main issue with the film is that the characters were just so
cheesy and unrealistic. All the good guys who we are suppose to care
for just ooze cheese and almost every line that comes out of their
mouths is cringe worthy. The is one character in particular (the deli
owner) who I found myself rooting against because he was just such a
lame and unbelievable character, they actually tried to give this guy
catch phrases. These felt like characters out of a bad action movie,
and that's really what this film was at it's core, a lousy action movie
in a horror setting. The villains weren't much better, at one point
they try to pass off a group of obnoxious teenage girl as villains, the
scenes with these girls were drawn out and extremely irritating, these
characters belonged in a teen comedy not a R rated "Horror" film.All in all I thought this was a lousy sequel and that the Purge
Franchise would have been better after just being two films. They
basically just repackaged The Purge: Anarchy with worse characters and
a little bit more of an expansion on the story. The worst part is they
will probably make more of these, they will run this franchise into the
dirt just like the Paranormal Activity franchise. My expectations were
not very high, yet I was still pretty disappointed.
