1
Damn you Warner Bros for greenlighting this garbage.

When this was first announced they sold it as being different and man
the tone of the early trailers just really made me feel like they were
going to go deep and abstract. The trailer song made me shiver. My dumb
ass thought it might even be something like "The adventures of Baron
Munchausen" full of metaphors and abstractions like "What dreams may
come". Like it was going tell a more emotional story about the
relationship of the main actors. Nope boring run of the mill peter pan adaptation with a couple
characters swapped to claim uniqueness. Damn I just rewatched the first
trailer and it totally sold me on a different story. What makes matters worse is the world is very well designed and there's
several hints at what could have been a really trippy adventure, but
for some reason they went incredibly cheap on the CGI which in several
spots is just unbearably bad. The story doesn't really make any sense. "chosen one"? For what? and
what exactly does he provide? He can control fairies? but the fairies
were perfectly capable of throwing a couple pirates around. The
relationship between Blackbeard and his mother was really dumb and
illogical, there's so much more they could have done with that. In
general it just felt crap and plodded along and then just rolled over
at the end. Man I'm just so angry. I would have killed to have Terry Gilliam to do
this, or David fincher, Darren Aronofsky. It sucks because Hugh Jackman
was wasted. Thats the one thing they got right. The design and
portrayal of Blackbeard was cool, but his story was so Blasé. I liked
the inclusion of modern music but instead of making it a theme with a
story nope you get one cool song and then generic music for the rest of
the film.(I know there was another one but it sucked) Damn you Warner Bros for greenlighting this garbage.Im giving this a 1/10 because of how insultingly wasteful they were
with such a great idea. I've seen better execution of concepts like
this out of 50k indie movies. When we talk about twist of fairy tale
concepts I have to give the nod to Maleficent. Again the trailer was
chilling and though the movie had innumerable flaws it was the mature
emotional experience we were looking for. Guess now were just going to
have to wait for the Fables trilogy they'll inevitably screw up.
