5
I mean...it's not the worst heist movie ever

I have to give it a 5, because honestly, my wife loved it, so there is
something there. It's not a "thinker", and it's not clever. I think the
best way to describe it is a good movie you can watch while doing
something else.My biggest problems with the movie are below, but before that, the
acting was good and there were some lines that were very good and jokes
that totally landed. I honestly didn't realize it was a Steven
Soderberg movie until the credits at the end. The lighting was good,
consistent. The editing, well I'm not sure they had to work with and
what the director/producer wanted, but I felt like it could have been
better. Overall, I feel like the cast and crew were committed and gave
their best.The downers are mostly script related though there were some very poor
directing choices (which is funny, because I said the same thing about
the Ocean's movies, but they could get away with it because the script
and performances were untouchable.)1. There is so much talk about the area and the geography it became
very clear 5 minutes in that the writer has never been to the area,
they just looked it up on a map. Case in point, if this all happened in
real life, it would be nearly a 5 hour drive to and from WV to
Charlotte each time.2. I had no connection with the characters. I just didn't care because
they weren't set up, their needs/wants.Why did Jimmy need to rob a bank in the first place? He didn't need
that much money to move to Lynchburg (I mean if he's commuting 5 hours
for a job in Charlotte, wouldn't a 4 hour drive to Lynchburg be the
same or better)? Does he have a history of crime or robbing banks?What motivated the idea in the first place? (Had the scene where he
saved the worker's life when he was buried in the tunnel, been the
opening scene (before credits) it wouldn't have come out of the blue
and felt more natural.A good example of not setting up characters, is that it was a good 1/2
hour into the movie before I realized that Milly was Jimmy's sister,
not his girlfriend.3. Why did his brother go along with him? Why was Joe Bang interested?
Why would Joe Bang want his brothers involved when one of them had
helped his wife steal Joe's savings? Why did Joe even want anyone else
involved especially his brothers who opened their mouths about his
savings?Joe and his brothers never even had good chemistry and only a few
minutes on screen together.4. Adam Driver never had to go to prison in the first place...so why?
If he didn't there was no need for the brothers anyway.5. The story with the nurse was so weak...it really didn't need to be
in there.6. The FBI characters where introduced so late into the story it is
just distracting. You have to introduce the main characters in the
first act you can't pull them into the story that far in.7. What was the point of giving the money back? The only people they
screwed over were the Bang Brothers. But there never felt like there
was any animosity between the Logans and Bangs, and there was never a
suggestion the Bangs were even upset at the end when they got screwed
over...so why?8. Why did a multi-millionaire walk into a crappy bar in WV at the
start of the movie? Couldn't Jimmy and his brother crossed paths with
him in a more realistic setting like, the motor speedway that Jimmy was
working at?9. I didn't need the back story to the race car driver, that just ate
up time and wasn't funny.10. Why give that much money to the prison at the end but completely
screw over the Bang brother who did more work? Why give the banker with
the cake get money?I was just kind of shocked this script was bought. The writer is
apparently a pen name, so I'm assuming someone very famous who is
likely an actor in the movie was the writer and that's probably the
only reason it was picked up.But after all that, most people don't get that obsessed with the story
like I do (ie, my wife) and if you're looking for something fun, yeah I
don't think you can go wrong with the movie...it could have been
funnier, it could have been more clever, but it wasn't a horrible
movie, just some very poor writing.
