10
Best Horror Film in the Last Decade

Ellison, played by Ethan Hawke, is a true crime novelist who is looking
to publish a bestseller more than ten years after the release of his
hit book, "Kentucky Blood". Ellison moves his family (a wife and two
young kids) into a house that was the scene of a grisly crime, leaving
a mother, father, and two children dead, and a third child missing.
Upon moving in, Ellison finds a box of super 8 films in the attic. On
the tapes are the murders of the family who previously lived in his
house and four other murders dating back to 1966. The only connection
between the murders is a symbol found in all the videos. With his
marriage deteriorating and his children's behavior becoming
increasingly strange, Ellison is determined to connect the dots and
possibly even solve the string of gruesome murders.I'm sure everyone is familiar with the popular 'scary maze game'. Even
if you know what is going to happen, you will most likely be scared in
the moments leading up to the 'big scare'. You aren't scared of what is
on the screen, but you're scared of what is about to be on the screen.
That is the difference between surprise and horror. If the moments
leading up to a jump scare are suspenseful, the actual scare is
considered 'earned'. Too many horror movies nowadays have unearned jump
scares. 'Sinister' is not at all one of those movies. It has it's fair
share of jump scares, but after the initial shock, you don't feel at
all relieved. The scares stick with you and you will go back to being
just as tense as you were before the scare.Another way 'Sinister' differs from most modern horror movies is that
it actually focuses on plot. The film's director Scott Derrickson
spends just as much time focusing on plot development as he does on
scaring us, much like he did with 'The Exorcism of Emily Rose'. Since
the characters are more developed and have more depth, we are able to
relate to them much easier. 'Sinister' is more of a drama about family
than it is a horror movie.Ethan Hawke gives one of the best performances I've ever seen in a
horror movie. He is great through the entire movie, but especially
shines in scenes where he is frustrated. Juliet Rylance who plays his
equally as frustrated wife is also great. With great performances from
the two leads, it almost doesn't matter how well-acted the characters
of their children are, but they are great nonetheless. Michael Hall
D'Addario who plays Trevor provides one of the most shocking and
terrifying scares I've ever seen (I just wish it wasn't in the trailer.
However, if it wasn't, I may have peed).I was lucky enough to see this movie in advance and attend a Q&A
session with the director and writer. In the Q&A, they mentioned how
this is a new take on the 'found footage' genre. This time however,
instead of an "anonymous source" finding the footage and "editing" it
from 36 hours to 80 minutes, the main character is the one who finds
the footage. The audience is shown the footage, but not all at once. It
is split up perfectly. Every time you hear the projector power up, you
will automatically begin looking through the tiny slits between your
fingers and you will certainly hold your breath.'Sinister' is disturbing. 'Sinister' is 'Saw' level disturbing. During
some scenes, I was actually trembling. The ending is also extremely
messed up and surprising. And messed up. Not to mention messed up. The
shocking imagery and twisted murders with certainly stick with you.
Luckily you won't have any nightmares about the movie, but that's only
because you won't be sleeping at all.'Sinister' is the scariest horror movie in years and the best overall
in the last decade. Horror fans will flock to see this movie and will
not be disappointed. It is well-acted, well- written, well-directed,
and most importantly, terrifying. If you see only one horror movie the
rest of the year, let this be it. It is near-perfect and a step in the
right direction for horror movies.bobbysmoviereviews.blogspot.com
