3
Everybody cheer the state sponsored child murders!

Three things first: (A)-Read the review and think about it first.
(B)-I'm a guy! Haven't read the books, but I now want to. (C)-Please
stop shouting 'Team Peeta/Gale, bitch' everywhere! In "The Hunger Games", a futuristic oppressive upper class society sets
24 children in a battle to fight against each other to the death every
year. There are 12 districts and each district randomly selects one boy
and one girl between the ages of 12 and 18 as tributes to enter the
Hunger Games as a way to keep the districts in check and keep any signs
of uprising at bay. The strong, sure-footed hunter, Katniss Everdeen
(Jennifer Lawrence), in a first of its kind, volunteers to be a tribute
in place of her little sister in the games. The huge success of "The Hunger Games" should be attributed to the
awesome marketing and the apparent title of being the next "Twilight"
when it comes to its money making ability in the teen-fantasy genre.
The camera-work is just fine, save for the jerk motions when somebody
is being killed. You won't feel any nausea if you are used to
Greengrass's style of cinematography. The acting from Jennifer
Lawrence, Woody Harrelson, Stanley Tucci, Elizabeth Banks and Josh
Hutcherson were great. Where the movie falls apart is in the second act
when the contestants are inside the arena. Say what you may, at least
"Battle Royale" provided a highly definitive motive for the kids to
become killers, didn't glorify the regime and didn't hold back. Of
course, since this movie is PG-13, there's relatively no bloodshed on
screen and I can overlook that aspect. What kept nagging me throughout
the whole movie is, the kids in "The Hunger Games" have no motive to
kill each other! Sure somebody should win. But it never explains why
they would pick up arms and go kill someone instead of letting nature
run its course as Woody Harrelson's Haymitch Abernathy character
explained earlier.The only ones with any kind of character development are Katniss and
Peeta. All the others, save for the little black girl and Isabelle
Fuhrman barely get to talk in the movie. We have the standard white
hunk and his gang of cliché cronies who are the 'villains' and must be
brought down. They smirk and take pleasure in killing others while our
leads don't get their hands dirty, at all. Peeta, as far as we could
see doesn't kill anybody while Katniss killed one guy in self defense
trying to save the little black girl. Even the main 'villain' is killed
off by cgi animals instead of our leads. So by the end of the movie,
our leads are relatively guilt free and their actions in the arena
doesn't affect them much. Also they never showed any of the parents
being affected by watching their children kill others or being killed
brutally. For a movie where 'hunger' is the main context, the children who come
from ravaged, starved homes seem to adapt to the rich lifestyles quite
quickly and they are barely starved even during the games. The social
commentary completely fails in every aspect. Here we have a world that
is like ours, which attempts to market every atrocious thing in a shiny
package for the audiences. It was just touched upon and I felt like the
writers were afraid of exploiting that storyline. They wanted to tell
the story of a totalitarian regime, but ended up ditching it in favor
of pleasing the masses. For all its talk of female empowerment, the
movie panders to the audience who love Gale/Peeta including cheesy
scenes which never come off as true. The Katniss we grew up liking in
the movie wouldn't have kissed Peeta at that moment, unless of course
it was a ploy to make the 'star-crossed lovers' notion work for the
sponsors in the movie, which was never quite clear.I was in fact, highly excited to see "The Hunger Games". But in its
attempt to appease the masses and thereby glossing over the disturbing
(yet intriguing) social commentary, "The Hunger Games" does the most
heinous act any movie could do. The system which we are supposed to
loathe and be disgusted by, is cheered and celebrated by the movie by
virtue of making the deaths of the children in the games
inconsequential by making them caricatures and inserting a convoluted
love story even in the most vicarious of situations, set to pander to
the teens who will go weak in the knees and forget about the immoral
world this movie is actually set in. By refusing to look directly at
its own story and by instead fashioning a convenient morality out of
its murderous sporting event, it lets the audience off the hook and
even encourages them to enjoy the blood-sport as 'entertainment'.3/10
