1
Reasons why you'll forget this movie 10 minutes after viewing it.

I'll be honest here. I wasn't a big fan of 300. The script was pretty
basic but what worked was the production values, the action, casting
and .. the dialogues. That it what made it the moderate entertainer
that it was.Now comes the sorry sequel. Here you'll find a short list of things
that make this movie un-watchable --The story- Its like 300 all over again, minus the intensity and
masculinity. Its terrible. There is no innovation , clearly the writer
and director were short of any inspiration that could make the story
adequately satisfying on any level. There was a kind of side story
involving a father and son which was probably the worst part of this
distasteful movie. By the end , i didn't care what happened to anybody
as long as it happened quickly .0/10The dialogues- So amateur, so freaking juvenile. Probably due to
absence of script, the actors (oh the wretched actors!, will come to
that later) were made to improvise and blurt whatever seems to be
right-ish.Example-Warrior: There will be death and destruction!Themistocles: Yes... (long pause) Themistocles: There will be.And not to forget ,SEIZE THE GLORY!!. 0/10The casting- The actors ,all of them, even Queen Cercei, were just
going through the motions. The lead guy was seriously miscast. He tried
to pull a Butler, but failed...epically. Eva Green tried to do what she
could with what she had, but she never had enough. Her scenes became
monotonous after a while. The side actors could easily have been crew
members who were given roles just to get on with this crap-fest. The
only strong character , i.e Xerxes was given about 6 minutes of screen
time. Its almost as if Zack 'The Hack' Snyder wanted this movie to
fail, and fail it did. 2/10 (only for Rodrigo Santoro)The production- Now this is what made the original...well mediocre. I
honestly believed that the movie will stand out in this department. Now
heres what i observed. Although made on a budget of 100 million, the
effects were god-darn terrible. At times it felt like i was watching a
TV show. Spartacus has 20 times better production value than this mess
of a movie. The battle scenes felt like the opposite of epic. Has this
director ever shot any action scene before, let alone a battle! I think
not. I've seen better choreographed fights in Monty Python and the Holy
Grail and i believed that about sums it up. 00/10The direction- Probably a first timer, a clueless director just trying
to follow a blind man's footsteps. I am not saying that a good director
might have been able to pull it off, but this guy just added insult to
injury. 0/10.The climax - Don't care. Just Frickin end it and i'll be off. 0/10And the absolute worst part-- There's gonna be another one. When people
will forget how bad this was , Mr Snyder will lay another crap on us.
YAY!!Don't watch it. Please. Or if you're so darn inclined to punish
yourself, i'd suggest you go easy on yourself and just watch 2 back to
back recent Adam Sandler Movies.
