6
Back to Camp Half-Blood

Greek mythology returns in "Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters", the sequel
to 2010's "The Lightning Thief". Based on the novels by Rick Riordan,
the series puts a spin on the rich mythology by blending it with modern
society, which is kind of interesting.The bulk of all the characters here are demigods/half-bloods (offspring
of gods and humans). But the protagonist is Percy Jackson, a demigod
son of Poseidon. Previously, he along with his besties Annabeth
(daughter of Athena) and Grover (a satyr), stopped Luke, the Lightning
thief, from destroying Olympus. Here, Camp Half-Blood (demigods' safe
haven) are under threat after Thalia's tree, the boundary that protects
the camp, is poisoned. The only thing that can heal it is the Golden
Fleece which is located on an island in the Sea of Monsters, or what we
like to call the Bermuda Triangle. The movie is quite action-packed and pits our hero against a variety of
Greek monsters. I loved the scene where the half-bloods had to face the
Colchis bull. The mechanical bull was quite extraordinary and that
scene was entertaining. However, I felt that the climax was a bit of a
letdown as all the tension that had been generated zipped away so
quickly. Characters come and go. In "Sea of Monsters", much of the ensemble cast
that make up the deities from the previous film are absent. We will see
no more of Zeus (Sean Bean), Poseidon (Kevin McKidd), Hades (Steve
Coogan), Persephone (Rosario Dawson), and Chiron (Pierce Brosnan). That
means most of the experienced actors are out (not to forget Uma Thurman
as Medusa). In replacement, we get Dionysus portrayed by the reliable
Stanley Tucci. The gods Hermes and Chiron have replacements (Nathan
Fillion and Anthony Head, respectively). We also have the clumsy but
humble Tyson (Douglas Smith), Percy's cyclops half-brother, and the
self-eccentric Clarisse La Rue (Leven Rambin), demigod daughter of
Ares. The movie had lots of scenes involving special effects. It was okay but
it wasn't excellent. Some of the creatures were stunning (the
hippocampus was amazing and eye-candy) whereas some looked pretty cheap
and effortless (Kronos). Under the direction of a new director, the movie is more faithful to
the source compared to the first movie's similarity to the book
(although by a tiny bit). But that's not to say some of the scenes
diverge from he book. The movie is quite well-paced and during the
ride, there are plenty of laughs to enjoy. Overall, "Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters" is quite an enjoyable film.
It's not better than the first and it's not worse than the first. It
has quite an interesting premise and some fine action sequences. Rating: 6/10Final Verdict: "Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters" is a decent sequel that
provides plenty of action scenes and laughs, with passable acting and
okay visual effects.
