2
This movie is absolute garbage.

Let me start off by saying I had fairly high expectations for this
film, not only being a fan of the first film but of Thor as a comic
book characters. To be nice, these expectations were not met. To be
realistic, this is easily the worst of the Marvel movies. This is my
first review so sorry if I jump around a lot with what I say. Let's
begin with the characters. Thor was.. okay. He said nor did anything
noteworthy really. He didn't grow that much as a character, and simply
felt boring. Natalie Portman was horribly boring to watch, and in some
scenes her character was written as an idiot. That seems to be a common
problem with the movie. Jane Foster? An idiot. Eric Selvig, an
originally intelligent character that had some serious, good talks with
Thor? Running around naked because the Tesseract made him go insane...
or something. It wasn't very clear. Speaking of, if he went insane
because of the Tesseract, why was Hawkeye completely okay after a bonk
on the head? Darcy? The most annoying girl on the planet. She was meant
for comedy but came of as GRATING to listen to and watch. Odin was a
douche who didn't know how to rule properly. Malekith was just...
boring. The makers had so much to work with, considering in the comics
what a clever sorcerer he is, as well as a deranged homicidal madman.
In this movie his motivations are unclear and his only character trait
was he likes to frown at things with his puffy looking face. Character
wise the only saving graces were Idris Elba as Heimdall and Tom
Hiddleston as Loki, which did not matter much considering how little
they were in the movie. Which is strange because Loki is in the trailer
so much, but has MAYBE 20 minutes of screen time. The special effects
in this movie were just ugly. Every monster looked fake and many of the
scenes looked like they were pulled out of a last gen video game. the
set design was okay, but not once did I feel immersed. Everything felt
like a flimsy set. It was just an ugly movie to look at. The plot was
just all over the place, with cuts to different scenes happening
frequently. Many scenes were completely useless could have been cut
altogether. Literally the only good scene was when Loki and Thor trick
Malekith. Also, considering it was never explained how Loki was able to
survive a stab wound, switch places with a guard, then switch places
with Odin becoming the new leader of Asgard, the ending makes
absolutely no sense whatsoever. The dialogue was just... horrendous.
There were multiple points where myself and the people I've seen the
movie with just laughed at the ridiculousness of what was being said.
Speaking of, the movie was farrrrrr too funny. Don't get me wrong, I
like comedic relief in these Marvel movies, it works for the
established universe but GOD they literally play every scene for comedy
it seems. Even the final world ending battle with Malekith was played
for comedy. For Christ's sake, THOR RODE TO THE BATTLE IN A SUBWAY CAR.
There's a gag where him and Malekith are sliding on the side of a
building with office people looking outside blankly, completely meant
for comedy.. IN THE FINAL, WORLD ENDING BATTLE. Avengers, Thor, Iron
Man 1,2 Captain America, all these movies had the common sense to put
the comedy in scenes where it was necessary. Hell, even Iron Man 3, the
most comedic movie behind this one had the common sense to say "This is
the final battle. Let's make this badass". Another problem with the
final battle itself is that it has no 'WOW' moments. There's no real
climax, everything is just bleh. OH and Malekith is squished by his
spaceship. That's something. Oh and why the hell do Asgardians and Dark
Elves have so many technological based things?! They have star ships,
turrets, laser cannons, ray guns, etc. There's nothing here that feels
like magic, which is what Thor should be about. And the Aether. The
main point of the movie. The weapon to spread darkness throughout the
universe essentially ushering an era of rule under Malekith. I couldn't
tell you a damn thing about this thing other that it spread...
darkness. whatever that means. The concepts that this movie is trying
to give are incredibly under explained. Where did the Aether come from?
Not explained. How did Jane end up actually finding it? Not sure.
What's the Convergence? It's when the 9 realms line up so Malekith
can... spread... darkness?.. How powerful is it? I have no idea.
Apparently universe shattering, but Thor doesn't have much trouble
fighting an Aether powered Malekith. It's actually kind of sad how
easily he was dispatched. There is little fun to be had in this movie.
It's just stupid. I didn't care about a single character besides Loki,
who was actually somewhat developed and easily stole the show when he
was on screen. This movie is absolute garbage and has ruined Thor
cinematically for me. I truly hope Captain America: The Winter Soldier
and Guardians of the Galaxy are good or I truly worry for the Avenegers
2. Please save your money. Don't see this movie. Don't tell the studios
that this Transformers 2 level garbage is okay to put out, that these
characters are okay to ruin. In the end, I give this movie a 2 out of
10, because Idris Elba was good, Loki was fantastic, and it had a
single scene in the movie where it gave me a glimmer of hope that it
would be redeemed. I'm sure I have far more to address but I'm trying
really hard to forget this film and reread the latest Thor comic epic,
Gorr the God Butcher. If you want to see some good Thor, read that
rather than watching this. Please.
