8
Sophisticated commentary on inequality and dispossession

Suite Francaise is, for me, a rather sophisticated commentary on
inequality and dispossession. The characters in Suite Francaise are never to any measurable degree in
control of their own fate. They are each controlled and constrained by
social, economic and political prohibitions. In their own way each
suffers a form of inequality of treatment, which leads to some form or
other of dispossession. For the lead characters, the young French wife and the German officer
she comes to love, the most obvious inequality is their inability to
form and sustain a loving relationship.They are constrained by
political differences and social prejudices. Other characters
experience dispossession as a result of a variety of factors such as
class bias and racial discrimination. The loss in these cases, ranges
from dispossession from property, through to deportation and death. What is clear is the authors frustration and fury at the insanity of
the world we live in. How so called civilizations and on a more local
level individuals, demonstrate spitefulness and pettiness,
(demonstrated by neighbours writing incriminating letters to the
occupying German forces about one another) that prevent us all from
leading free and happy lives. This message is driven home all the more painfully and forcefully when
you consider the tragic fate of the Jewish author, whose work this film
is based upon. Sent to her death at a Nazi concentration camp simply
for being Jewish. The film adaption, derived from her incomplete series of books, is
perhaps, a little stilted at times. This may in part be due to the fact
the books were incomplete but possibly also due to the subtly of the
message, which is not easily communicated in a ninety minute or so
film. In summary, Suite Francaise, is a thoughtful film. The compelling and
heartfelt message which asks us all to practice kindness, understanding
and tolerance when faced with its antithesis is as relevant in today's
troubled times as ever it was. Eight out of ten from me.
