3
Lost the plot

*****Potential Spoilers*****lost the plotAs more and more animated films are getting a modern make over, I can
say that I was genuinely excited when I saw the first teaser for this
Tarzan film. Straight away I was thinking of how my favourite scenes
from the previous movie would be brought back to life along with How
the animals would look, if they Would talk, At what point would we hear
the iconic Tarzan roar and of course how would the vine swinging look
with today's cgi technology. In my opinion the animated storyline was a
great foundation to work from and should have been ( for the majority
at least) left the same. The trailer when released made me almost
certain that that was going to be the case. Particularly after seeing
The shot of the tree house over looking the ocean and the gorillas
discovering Tarzan as a baby. However. . . . This story is being told very very very differently. The
entire story I was hoping to see brought back to life has already come
and gone. All You are treated to are multiple flashbacks throughout the
film to relive certain moments such as how Tarzan met Jane, what
happened to his parents and how he became one with the animals etc but
they couldn't even get that in the slightest bit right. The first time
you see Tarzan in this film you don't see the Tarzan we know and love
we instead see a well dressed, well spoken Tarzan ( called John) who is
discussing politics and events that are unfolding/about to unfold in
Africa. Straight away I felt like I was watching what should have been
a sequel to a revamped first film. Then who happens to appear . . . . Drum roll please . . . .who else but
Samuel L Bloody Jackson 😫😫 Playing a character that was completely out of sync and in all honesty
laughable. A character who found himself able to jump off cliffs and
land safely In trees, stand and watch Tarzan take on a full sized
gorilla with not a flicker of fear other than the occasion typical
Jackson outburst. A character that if changed into different clothing
could have been playing any off his previous roles. There was no
adaptation to suit the film. David Yates directing this film reminds me of Roy Hodgson managing the
England team during the Euros. Had a good base to work with but
ultimately had no idea how to put it together so that it worked. You
were only teased you with what could have or might have been. A fight
scene fuelled on the loss of loved ones and raw emotion that only
lasted a few minutes (with more than an underwhelming conclusion) would
be an example of that. The characters had no depth and this was not the Tarzan and Jane I was
hoping to see. That being said I think the choice of actors ( Samuel L
Jackson being the exception) were the right choices for their parts but
were portrayed completely wrong by the director and the direction of
the film. Bitterly disappointed with the plot, the characters and also some of
the visual affects. I think the majority of people who were expecting
or hoping to see what I was hoping to see will be as well.
