2
Trainwreck

Based on a best selling novel and with a huge marketing campaign to
back the film, The Girl On The Train oddly became one of the most
anticipated films of the Autumn to Christmas period... But instead of
being the Guardians of the Galaxy of this period the film fairs as well
as this years Suicide Squad. The Girl On The Train is absolutely
terrible and I feel rather sorry for Emily Blunt who I feel is left
alone trying to salvage this wreckage.The film is so melodramatic that it is physically exhausting. The
script is I feel mainly to blame as many lines, especially Megan's,
feel extremely pretentious and I can't help but roll my eyes almost
every time someone speaks. Not only is the dialogue over the top but
the characters are written in such an unlikable way and the story's
progression is simply boring with one or two exceptions. I also took
issue with some of the plot points but I am unaware if this fault lies
with the book itself, or the film has adapted it and executed it in
such a poor way... I think I'll give the book the benefit of the doubt
and stick to the film as this must have been a Best Selling Book for a
reason.The characters in this film are extremely unlikable to the point that
anything they say or do annoyed me. The frustrating thing about these
characters, and this is again Megan's character mainly, is that they
are often perfectly happy and fine but seem to go out their way to
screw their lives up (with the obvious exception of Rachel). Megan was
a huge issue for me as she had a seemingly happy life, she worked in
galleries and with children and had a husband who loved her... But she
just has to sleep around with the entire male cast to the point that
you feel exactly what Rachel felt when she saw her from the train.
Megan's character is rage inducing and for that I simply didn't care if
she was alive or dead but instead wanted to give the culprit a medal...
But even the culprit is a frustratingly irritating ass.The best thing about this film by far is Emily Blunt's acting. I would
call it the films saving grace but this film is far from saving.
Blunt's performance of an alcoholic, voyeuristic, lonely woman who
takes the same train everyday to watch the "perfect couple" is great.
Of course the lines she is given aren't that great and her character is
again irritatingly stupid I'm surprised Alison Janney didn't wack
handcuffs on her, but as the plot thickens so does your understanding
of her character and so she is excused. As I said earlier I feel rather
sorry for Blunt who is tasked with holding the whole film together, but
it sadly isn't enough even though she tried so hard and got so far, in
the end it didn't even matter.Overall, The Girl On The Train is one of the worst films of the year in
my opinion. The Suicide Squad of the Autumn - December movie season.
Emily Blunt tries her best but it isn't enough to save this
melodramatic mess. Fan's of the book I'm sorry if I offend and I'm sure
the book is good and worth the time to read... But the film is simply
not worth the 112 minutes and the anger it generates. Stand aside Amy
Schumer this film is the real Trainwreck.
