7
Revisionist treatment with pluses and minuses

There are very few works of 20th-century American literature that can
be called indispensable to our understanding of our culture. And one of
these few is Jack Kerouac's On the Road. As everyone knows, it's the
thinly-veiled autobiographical account of Kerouac and his friends in
their pointless but exuberant adventures across America. For 50 years,
it's been waiting to be made into a movie. Now, at last.So, everyone already knows the story well, no; chances are, if you're
like me, you read the book and yet remember almost nothing of the
story. The book burns through its shreds of storyline as if they were
just tinder for the blaze of its energy; the real fuel is the pacing,
even with all its redundancy. It's the momentum that sucks us into the
breathless chaos of Kerouac's world. We come away impressed by the
energy, not the content.Film could certainly have been used to amplify this effect, but this is
not that film. Instead, we have a more conventional treatment, focusing
on character development. It's a nice production, with an attractive
cast. But the story comes at us very differently from the book
experience. The manuscript has been rewritten to add breathing space
and objectivity. We see Sal Paradise, only half-formed at the start of
the story, pull himself together to become a serious writer. We see the
endlessly exuberant Dean Moriarity ultimately coming to grips with the
progressive self- destruction attributable to his amorality, and
suffering. This might be a fair reading of Kerouac's ultimate feelings
about that part of his life, but it's not the feeling that Kerouac
shares with us in the book. We have lost our innocence; our last chance
to revisit it, even for a few hours, is taken away.I'm not going to rage against this re-conception of the story, though,
because it makes other changes from the book that might be
improvements. Several episodes that were censored from the book are
restored in the film. (Some discussion of this at
http://www.univie.ac.at/Anglistik/easyrider/data/BeatEros.htm). So the
movie is more historically accurate, and far more sexually explicit
than the book. (That could also explain its delayed US release). In one
poignant scene, Carlos Marx (Allen Ginsberg) is whining to Sal about
how vulnerable he feels due to his poorly-returned love for Dean. To
the best of my recollection, that conversation was not in the book
(please tell me if you believe otherwise), but was expressed in a
private letter from Ginsberg to Kerouac many years after the fact. This
kind of thing changes the emotional flow of the story, certainly, but
it adds depth, too.Few of us will actually suffer nostalgia for the gritty overindulgences
of the Beats. But remember, this came at a time when society was
absolutely saturated with the message that everyone should be "normal,"
safe, predictable. Without the tiny minority of Beats attacking that
message, and specifically without On The Road to chronicle that attack,
the cultural revolution of the 1960's would have been even more
difficult than it was, and perhaps less effective. Good, bad, or ugly,
we must embrace this story.
