8
Okay, so we could be biased about Ryan Reynolds in an Sci-fi/Action title, but hear me out...

I would actually give this title a nine if I myself were being biased,
and I can be because it's a rarity that I make it to the movies
anymore. I get pretty excited when I see something that I actually care
about and this was quite entertaining for me..most movies are relevant
to in different ways, so take that for what it's worth. I'm a movie
lover. I saw this film with the hopeful intention of walking away with
a little bit of a Born Identity kind of feel, something considered to
be at least surface entertainment and I was not disappointed and that
is an understatement. The action and story opener with Ben Kingsley as
the main protagonist was well executed, as was the claustrophobia
inducing transformation into Ryan Reynolds. One of the things I was
actually worried about from the preview wasn't even about the content
of the film but more how under the radar that I felt it would be in the
public eye. Ryan Reynolds is not by any means a bad actor and that's
his problem, with something so serious and Sci-Fi oriented we're almost
reluctant to even approach his ability to draw you in. We see his films
and usually know what to expect because he's so likable. Ever since
Waiting he's been hard to avoid, but nothing about his roles offer
anything compelling and that's not really his fault. I respect his
quest for versatility..I really enjoy his role in this movie,
actually..the things that are great about this movie really sparkle.. I
have to say the best part about this for me would have to be the
directing and the Music..my God, they really pulled of some wonderful
suspense...some moments made my skin crawl..they utilize an almost Hans
Zimmer technique likened to Joker's theme song in the Dark Knight but
it doesn't feel rehashed. It's a thoughtful cerebral thriller with the
fat trimmed away, it doesn't linger in too many places..the pacing was
great. There was not a boring moment and in fact most of it had me
cheering, mentally. I even like the ending, thought it was beautiful.
The only thing that bothered me was the closing shot of the film, it
was so simplistic that it was almost like man...dude, you could have
had a classic on your hands, most may not take it to that level but I
promise that it's at least likable to anybody. I loved this movie, it
had great potential and totally delivered the goods. Every punch, every
nuance counted and reminded me that the action genre still has the
chance to break some ground.
