6
Cruising through gorgeous visual and beautiful shanties, but unfortunately also on shallow narrative

Pan bears a lot of similarities to other adventure films, family
animation and even role-playing games. It packs myriad of visual antics
across the journey of self-discovery. However, it's also painfully one
dimensional and predictable, using the "chosen one" plot to a fault.
While it's admittedly aesthetically pleasing, this is not the
innovative origin story it's advertised to be.In a world tormented by pirates, one child must discover his destiny.
You've seen this before. Some angles have been changed, but this is
typical Peter's adventure to Neverland. It's so overused, one might
find half the script in Final Fantasy games. Not to mention it's
riddled with fantasy genre cliché and uninspiring romance subplot.To their credit, the actors do a fine job. Hugh Jackman as Blackbeard
is a good antagonist, he looks the part by carrying the character with
ominous charisma, either it's by his flamboyant dialogues or even
timely singing. He can appear funny yet still threatening. Well, as
threatening as a villain in family flick can be.While Blackbeard looks fit for Hook's replacement, Hook himself is
played by Garrett Hedlund, who ironically tries too hard to be young
Hugh Jackman. His delivery is forced to create a suave persona, but
most of the times he just looks out of place. Levi Miller as Peter
handles himself pretty well. The story focuses heavily on this boy's
fate, and although he can seem rough at some scenes, he brings a
commendable performance as the lead.Graphical prowess plays important role, almost too much, and on its
better parts Pan definitely has the stylish charm of fantasy vista.
Setting is filled with colorful designs and details, although CGI takes
the helm on most cases. Its soundtracks are splendid, it simply doesn't
let go. From subtle chimes, loud symphony and even shanty version of
popular songs, the audio is brilliant.Pan would've been great if it didn't copy so many elements from other
movies. In nearly every scene, there's a hint of Pirates of Caribbean,
Mad Max and multitude of classic Disney flicks. The straightforward
plot doesn't help either, it's tedious to see the predictable
developments ahead. Ancient prophecies, letter from the past and hidden
power manifestation are tired gimmicks. Please, you know he's gonna fly
at some point.For a movie that looks so appealing, Pan never really takes flight. One
might find happy thoughts on the visual and songs, but the CGI charm
and adventure gimmicks will not last through its boring plot.
