9
Souped-up episode of the TV series.

Before I get into my recommendations for viewing, let me first comment
on the film as a standalone experience: The movie has a perfectly
cogent narrative, it's very straightforward, none of the characters are
obnoxious, unnecessary, or out of place. The dialogue is excellent, and
the themes are sincere. The film is not overly saccharine, and it's
conflict and subsequent ideas presented are handled with a degree of
verisimilitude that helped make the TV show popular with a wide array
of demographics in the first place. That being said, what is presented
is not very complex or interesting, it's all relatively straightforward
stuff and the ideas the film presents will in all likelihood not
surprise you in the least. MLP FiM's strongest point has always been
it's characters, and the protagonists lead role here is no exception.
Because of the large ensemble cast, many of the other characters do not
get such well explored spotlight, which is to be expected given the
films short length. That's not to say that the films large main cast
does not jive thematically with the ideas of friend presented, but a
longer length could have made some of the characters inclusion a little
bit more pertinent to the eventual wrap-up. The visual aesthetics of the film are mostly beautiful. The production
is a hybrid between 2D hand drawn animation, and 3D environments. Aside
from some 3D models that stick out like a sore thumb (Most of them
being objects rather than background set-pieces), the art,
cinematography, and animation is all top notch stuff and should keep
most people sufficiently interested in looking at the screen for the
films length.This film is partly a musical, and as usual from Daniel Ingram, you can
expect a treat. Everything from fanfares, to tangos, to Broadway swing
tunes are present, all being recorded with live instruments. All of the
song serve a narrative purpose and are not gone to waste.If I were to estimate the average audience members experience who is
not a fan of the TV series, a 6-7/10 movie going experience seems like
a reasonable estimate. It does plenty to transcend it's cultural
baggage as being a My Little Pony movie, but does not stretch it's
limbs far outside of exploring the easy to understand themes the TV
show presents. This can be seen as good or bad depending on your
disposition, which brings me to the next part of the critique: My
Little Pony The Movie is best consumed with the added context of the
first three seasons of the television series the movie is based on.
Audience members with no exposure to the wider canon of the series will
be missing out on a lot of established characterization and concepts
that rightfully so are not expounded upon in the film due to the
central narrative taking precedence. This information is not necessary
to follow along and perfectly understand the story, but the added
context easily bumps the experience from a 6-7/10 to a 8+/10 film going
experience. Some concepts may seem absolutely ridiculous, like Twilight
Sparkle being the princess of friendship. Any regular movie-goer who
did not follow along with Twilight's arc between seasons 1-3 will have
no idea why this is significant, or how such a title makes sense in the
slightest. Again it is not necessary to know why Twilight is the
princess of friendship, or what this means exactly, but the added
potential confusion and/or absurdity the idea presented can have a
negative affect on ones viewing experience, especially an older
audience member. The added emotional connection and characterization
from the series with the main cast makes this movie better, seeing them
all come together and take on this challenge is much more satisfying at
it's conclusion than otherwise.My Little Pony The Movie is more ambitious and looks a lot prettier
than it's TV counterpart, but peeling back it's layers reveals the
fundamental core that makes MLP FiM MLP FiM.If you are somebody who is not familiar with the series and you want to
give this movie a try, you might as well watch the first few episodes
of the TV show first, because you'll know for the most part exactly
what you're in for. If you like it, continue watching and try to get
through as much as you can before seeing the film. This is a lot to ask
of somebody, but if you dislike the show and have no other reason to
see the movie, you can merely skip it entirely as this will probably
not be something you will find to be sufficiently entertaining.
