1
Heartless movie. Unreal characters, weak story, ridiculous message.

There is a passage in this movie that's so incredibly heartless. It
turned an otherwise bad movie into something I can almost consider my
enemy.The passage I speak of is when Mercer (in a totally unrealistic way,
but that's beside the point) kills himself by driving off a bridge. Mae
is ultimately responsible for that. We see her in bed, being sad for a
little while, then she goes back to work for that abomination of a
company. Sure, she plots behind the scenes to unmask the guys at the
top. But that doesn't make her any less responsible for her best
friend's death. Her bosses only pushed her over the edge.The movie presents Mae as a victim who turns into a victor. As if she
somehow avenged her friend's death by unmasking her bosses. It made no
sense at all. It was the company itself, the very idea of tracking down
people who don't want to be found, coupled with Mae's consent to do
something she knew was very wrong, that killed Mercer. A person who can
feel guilty would not get anywhere near that company ever again, or
burn it to the ground. Mae just looked for someone else to blame,
succeeded and shamelessly climbed the ladder "for the greater good".It sickens me that a soulless character like this is presented as a
heroine in a big picture like this. People look up to movie characters,
they become role models. This one is going to do some damage.EDIT: I want to make myself a little more clear. I don't give this
movie 1 star because I got nothing from it. On the contrary: this movie
made me think, big time. You should definitely go see it to make up
your own mind. But I stand behind my judgement. This movie made my
heart bleed. The Circle is based on a very real phenomenon, loss of
privacy is a real problem coming our way. But the main character does
not stand against the tide, she goes with the flow and only speeds
things up. Movie characters usually embody ideal behaviour, this one
does what most people would do. It's a pretty unique but very
irresponsible approach. It will make people feel more powerless than
they already are. The movie only presents the problem, without a
solution or a true hero to find one. I feel challenged to find the
solution in myself, so in that way the movie deserves 10 stars instead
of 1. But this is purely my sympathy for the devil speaking. This movie
shits on truth. Trust yourself, not the movie, when you see it.
