1
Planet of the Apes And High-Brow Drama Clash In This Unbearably Pretentious Garbage

I would not call myself a huge Planet of the Apes fan. The first film
is a classic, the rest of the original movies are average at best, and
Tim Burton's film was an entertaining popcorn flick. However, it wasn't
until 2011's Rise of the Planet of the Apes that my interest in the
series really ignited. The film had an excellent story to tell about
how an experimental Alzheimer's drug could lead to world takeover by
super-intelligent apes. It was suspenseful, exciting, and a real thrill
to watch. Plus, it had some great performances from James Franco, John
Lithgow, and Andy Serkis as Caesar, the leader of the Apes. Rise was
one of my favorite films of the year, and when I found out a sequel
would be coming out, I was understandably excited. I awaited a bigger,
more action-packed movie than Rise that would hopefully give me more of
what I loved about its predecessor. Much to my chagrin, Dawn of the
Planet of the Apes carries over none of the freshness or charm of Rise.
Dawn is a fatally pompous, self-important, and generic slog through an
uninspired planet of the apes.The movie is a post-apocalyptic story told both from the human and ape
point-of-view. The apes do have a somewhat interesting story;
particularly a dramatic betrayal between two ape leaders, Caesar,
motion captured by Andy Serkis and the scarred bonobo Koba (Toby
Kebbell). The human actors manage to convincingly pretend to be talking
animals, but I fail to find anything really special in these motion
capture performances. On the other side of the story are the human
characters, and let's just get to the point, they have nothing remotely
interesting to do, and not one of them is at all interesting as a
character. Gary Oldman acts the Hell out of every scene he's in, but
even his scenery-gnawing presence can't save the humans in this movie
from feeling utterly dull and pointless. The post-apocalyptic story is
as generic as it gets, pitting a band of survivors against the odds in
a struggle to get power to the city. It is the type of broad
"post-apocalyptic" story that seems like it was lifted straight from an
episode of The Walking Dead. You would think there would be more
imagination and ideas for a future where apes rule the world, but there
is no such thing here. It is the same dilapidated cityscape and band of
survivors schtick we see in every cheap zombie apocalypse movie/show
nowadays. Thankfully, the apes take center stage, and while their story is more
interesting than the humans', the seriousness of the whole thing is
often laughable. It is basically Hamlet in digital monkey costumes. A
lot has been said about the "performances" of Serkis and Kebbell, and
yes, the digital makeup looks convincing. They move like apes, they
talk like apes might talk, but what else can you say of what the actors
bring? Grunting out dramatic dialogue with a stern look on your face is
not what makes a good performance. Unfortunately, it seems it's enough
to fool audiences into thinking it is. Watching Serkis and Kebbell, I
couldn't help but feel like I was being presented an effect; like the
actors were trying to show me how much they could act under the digital
makeup. Even with cutting edge special effects and big action set pieces, Dawn
of the Planet of the Apes was a crushing disappointment for me. The
film had potential to takes us further into the ape-dominated world set
up in Rise. Instead, the film coasts on the well-worn post-apocalyptic
formula. Anything remotely interesting in Dawn of the Planet of the
Apes is killed by the frustratingly pretentious tone. The tone of Dawn
of the Planet of the Apes is relentlessly dark. Darkness is not a sin
in itself, but director Matt Reeves lathers the drama and grittiness on
so much that he forgets to entertain. Instead of simply taking the
story seriously, the film takes itself seriously. Here is a group of
people (Reeves, Serkis, etc.) who "know" that the movie they are making
is an important Hollywood milestone. That is never good.That is the problem with the movie. It thinks it is a significant,
world-changing drama about the nature of man, when in fact it is not.
It's a glorified Last of Us ripoff, masquerading as a Shakespearian
tragedy. The tone never wavers from the absolute dead serious. It's a
shame because I loved the balance in tone that the Wyatt's Rise of the
Planet of the Apes had. It was dark and scary, but it had real heart
and the action was actually fun. I might not be the biggest apes fan,
but what appeals to me about the series is its imagination, satire, and
thrills, not wannabe high-brow crap like Dawn of the Planet of the
Apes.15/100
