1
Uggghhh....

I have never in my life seen a sequel that destroyed itself before it
even opened in theaters. That's the sign of one of the worst film
sequels ever made to a film that was terrible to begin with. First of
all, it is said that in the remake, the titans were killed by the
Kraken. As stupid as that was to begin with, why are the titans in this
film then? Oh right, because the writers can't write. Clearly no one in
this film knew what continuity was. Why is it called wrath of the
titans, when there are no titans in it, only one? Wow, you even got
your title wrong, Wrath of the one Titan, and the others we couldn't
afford. How bad is your film when you can't even get the title right.
That thing called the Chimaera is not the chimaera, you know how I
know? I studied something called, oh what was it....Oh that's right,
Greek mythology. I have no clue why Andromeda is in this at all, she
didn't do anything of any significance whatsoever in the first film.
Why is she here? Why is she played by an even worse actress? Isn't it
sad when the only true film to Greek mythology is Disney's Hercules?
Granted some flaws, but nonetheless. Why does Perseus go to Andromeda
at the end, they never had a previous relationship? I have never seen a
film fail so miserably, never....Why is it now I am witnessing the
worst, the dumbest films in the history of cinema? Apparently gods can
die in this series, really? Then why are they IMMORTAL....I think
someone needs to look that up in the dictionary. And why is it that
gods can't do anything with their powers? In the remake, Hades said, "I
must regain my powers." When did you lose them, you idiot? Why doesn't
zues just strike down everybody? I don;t know why the gods keep dying
when they're supposed to be immortal? How bad is your film if you
destroy your own mythos? Last, but certainly not least, Sam Worthington
is one of the worst actors today...anyone can see it. Stop acting,
Sam....it does you no good.
