10
Human Heroism Done Right

It was an aviation event the likes of which few, if any, in the world
could ever recall happening. On January 15, 2009, US Airways Flight
1549, bound from New York's LaGuardia International Airport to
Charlotte, North Carolina, was hit by a large flock of birds just
thirty seconds after takeoff. The bird strike disabled and damaged both
of the jet's engines; and though it managed to keep flight for another
three minutes, there was no way it could return to LaGuardia, or make
any attempts at an emergency landing at either JFK, Newark, or nearby
Teterboro Airport in New Jersey. The flight's captain, Chesley "Sully"
Sullenberger, made the split-second decision to ditch the aircraft in
the Hudson River, rather than risk flying into any buildings.
Incredibly, the aircraft, though damaged by the bird strikes and the
water landing, stayed afloat long enough for rescue personnel to save
the lives of all 155 people on that flight, an operation that took only
twenty-four minutes in all. The incident has been into the highly
engaging cinematic docudrama SULLY.Based on the book "Highest Duty" by Sullenberger and Jeffrey Zaslow,
the film, as directed by Clint Eastwood (who some time back traded his
acting career for one focused solely on direction, though he had been
doing both on and off since 1971's PLAY MISTY FOR ME), focuses in on
the pressures that Sullenberger, excellently played by Tom Hanks (as
always), underwent in the months following the crash. The media
attention was enormous, but it was also highly scrutinizing as well.
And in those months, Sullenberger and his co-pilot Jeffrey Skiles
(Aaron Eckhart) went before a seemingly endless battery of hearings
conducted by both the Federal Aviation Administration and the National
Transpiration Safety Board as to whether Sullenberger's judgment on
that day was sound, given that flight simulations supposedly had shown
that the plane could have accomplished either one of the four scenarios
(return to LaGuardia; landing at JFK; Newark; or Teterboro) while
achieving the same result that Hanks and Eckhart had achieved. But in
the testimony the two men give, Hanks argues that the basic human
element was totally left out of those scenarios. From the moment the
bird strikes happened until US Airways 1549 ditched into the Hudson
River, there were only 208 seconds (three minutes and twenty-eight
seconds); and in that time, trying to fly the disabled craft onto a dry
runway was totally unrealistic and could have resulted in the deaths of
all onboard and even more on the ground.Since restaging the actual saga of Flight 1549 would be a matter of
getting all the details right, helped out by Sullenberger's own book
and his four decades worth of flight experience, it was really up to
Eastwood's direction, and Hanks' ability to underplay, to get into the
mindset of "Sully" as he dealt with all the media and government
attention that he, his wife (Laura Linney), and Eckhart went through in
those months following what the media had deemed the "Miracle On The
Hudson." Hanks deftly shows the struggles that Sullenberger faced, via
flashbacks to that cold wintry day in the skies over the Big Apple,
with respect to what he could have done differently (or what both the
media and the government investigators think he could have done
differently). But at no time during the actual FAA/NTSB hearings did
Sully ever lose his cool and his composure. He merely pointed out that
the human element needed to be taken into consideration, not just what
some alternate computer simulation said could have been done, to
facilitate the saving of everyone on Flight 1549; and the playback of
the flight voice recorders clears up any questions as to the judgment
and veracity behind Sully's decisions.That this saga, which, like 1995's APOLLO 13 (which also starred Hanks)
and 2015's THE 33, had a hugely successful outcome, should have been
made into a movie probably shouldn't surprise anyone. But just as
importantly, and also just like those films, SULLY, thanks to Hanks'
usual great Everyman portrayal of Sullenberger, the kind of heroism on
display is that of common people, including Hanks, his crew, his wife,
the passengers, and the rescue personnel of New York City, and not just
some comic-book, super-patriotic depiction of heroism that too much of
Hollywood has been about in the 21st century. Nothing about the saga of
US Airways Flight 1549, or the resulting Miracle On The Hudson, was
cut-and-dried; it was reality, and Eastwood and Hanks should both be
commended for making it that way, and successfully so.
