7
Different From What You Might Be Expecting

A first time director makes a zombie apocalypse movie ? What's the
gimmick ? you ask . How about a brooding , introspective film where not
a lot happens and is directed in a very obvious independent style .
Nothing too radical about that you say but here's the hook - sell it to
the public by casting an erstwhile mega-star who despite being ultra
popular with cinema goers in the 1980s and early 1990s was never an
actor and cast him in a pivotal role that requires him to act . This
might be playing with fire or at the very least seems like a cynical
attempt to publicise a film in a market it's perhaps not suited for .
Let's face it here guys , if you're old enough to remember Arnold
Schwarzenegger then there's only one thing you're going to expect and
that is over the top violence with weapons that never run out of
ammunition and cringe inducing one liners !!!!! SUGGESTIVE SPOILERS !!!!!! And if you go in to this film expecting any of this you'll probably
either fall asleep or stagger out of the cinema in a state of terminal
boredom long before the end credits start . MAGGIE was originally going
to star Paddy Considine in the role of Wade and director Henry Hobson
deserves some credit in getting a fondly remembered big hitter as a
casting coup . Again let me emphasise however you're not going to see
much in the way of action because this is a character driven film
concentrating on mood , long silences and pained facial expression .
There's also another clue as to what you're going to be watching and
that is the title of the film is MAGGIE and so it revolves around the
titular teenage character played by Abigail Breslin finds herself
succumbing by a terrifying disease that is sweeping the world . There
is some very haunting , understated moments in this film which often
feels more like a drama than an out and out horror and it's something
of a revelation seeing Arnie in such an unusual role . I don't think
he'll be up for Best Supporting Actor at next year's Oscars but it's
good see him a film that cost a mere four million dollars which
wouldn't get the average Hollywood star out of bed It's not a flawless film of course . Hobson direction doesn't perhaps
have the urgency the story perhaps needed more and means MAGGIE isn't
as captivating as it should have been with a bit too much in the way of
long pregnant silences . He's also a bit too reliant on close ups which
becomes a little bit too noticeable very quickly . But despite these
flaws for a movie costing four million dollars it's a fairly impressive
feature length debut from a first time director
