2
an example of a delayed mess!  MASS SPOILERS

MASS SPOILERS MASS SPOILERS MASS SPOILERS MASS SPOILERS after this film
has been delayed for so long, we finally get to see it and let me sum
this up new family with a comatose teenage son/brother moves into the
Amityville house in the present day. our lead Belle has never heard of
the houses history (defiantly not believable as 1. its the most famous
haunted house story in modern history. 2. they even mentioned the
films/books about the events that happened there and 3. again its the
most famous haunted house story in modern history. Belle goes to her
new school as is deemed a freak "because of her lipstick and the house
she now lives in". she immediately clicks with a young boy who he then
introduces to his "girl"friend and they insist that they watch the
Amityville Horror in the actual house at 3:15am because "its when the
house comes alive". when the clock turns 3:15 the power goes out
(creepy right?) but forget about that important time that the events
all took place around as that the first and last time something happens
at that time. Belle's mum is portrayed to be abusive towards her as she
believes that her twin (the one in the coma) is in the coma because of
her ( when she was 15 she sent naughty pics to her at the time
boyfriend who then spread them everywhere and the brother went to get
revenge on the boy but fell out a window). the demonic force in the
house then starts to possess the comatose brother and the mother admits
that she only moved there so this could happen as she thought it would
be the only way he would recover. moving on to the end now, he gets
fully possessed and kills his mum and goes to kill his younger sister
but Belle stops him by jumping on top on him sending them both out the
window of the house (get it because that's how he got put in a coma. so
clever) (oh and you may notice that's the 1st time i've mentioned the
younger daughter, that's because she serves as much to this story as
giving a vegan a rare rib eye steak... its just pointless). the brother
then dies and Belle and her sister get on the same page about what
really happened. the end. its so bad, pointless, should not exist
