4
A Downgrade from TV

Well, if you ever watched an episode of this series and thought, I
wonder what it would be like if they made this four times longer, gave
it a much bigger budget, and half assed the story. Then this movie is
for you.I definitely wouldn't call myself a brony, but I've seen plenty of
episodes and my daughter loves the show. This movie feels so much more
hollow and isolated then the show. Ponyville is attacked by the Storm
King (Live Schriber) with the help of his second in command Tempest
(Emily Blunt). The six main characters flee and attempt to find allies
that will help them defeat this foe.We follow the six leads on this adventure, but their characters that
are very distinguished and defined on the series are muted here.
Rainbow Dash, Applejack, and Rarity all get one brief character moment
and that's it. Pinky Pie and Twilight Sparkle have a fair bit to do and
Fluttershy well she gets nothing. You could cut her from the movie and
have it bare no impact on the story. Actually, you can cut everyone but
Pinky Pie and Twilight Sparkle and have the same story. The whole TV
series is about friendship, but this movie opts to ignore most of the
key friendships in the series.Let's look at villains. In the series easily one of the best villains
is Discord voiced wonderfully by John De Lancie essentially reprising Q
from Star Trek: The Next Generation. We also got Nightmare Moon and the
Changelings. All of which were far better villains than the bumbling
Storm King. Discord is a very silly villain, but he still has menace.
While Storm King was just silly but without the menace. How does a
character like that build an army and invade with no warning? I get
doing a new villain, but shouldn't this villain feel like more of a
threat. As it is, he feels like a lesser threat than the six have
already beaten dozens of times.If you think this isn't a movie made for me. This is a movie made for
fans. My 9 year old daughter who loves the series spent a fair bit of
time after the movie complaining about how it took elements for the
series and squandered them. She seems a heartbeat away from screaming
betrayal. And if the movie can't satisfy non-fans or fans, then who was
it possibly made for?
