5
A joyless adaption of an exhilarating book

The On The Road novel has inspired numerous readers, myself included to
take an American road trip. Will the film have the same effect? I
sincerely doubt it. And herein lays the problem. Whilst the book takes
the reader on an exuberant, spirited journey full of life, the film
puzzlingly slows the pace right down and presents a muted, almost
depressed version of the same story.This is best illustrated by the presentation of the character of Dean
Moriarty. He should be the driving force of the story, pushing the
storyline on with his crazed excitement for the good and bad in life.
On the printed page he can barely speak fast enough to get all his
thoughts out. However in the film he huffs and puffs his way from one
scene to the next, speaking in a laconic drawl, whilst lacking all the
charm and charisma that is supposed to make him so alluring. He is the
muse for the writer character of Sal, but anyone coming to the film
fresh without having read the book, may well struggle to understand
why.The film lacks a rounded sense of the hedonistic side of the journey.
The sex is arguably overplayed and whilst there is some drugs and jazz,
there is little of the booze. Crucially the characters rarely seem to
be having a good time. The film seems to focus on the melodramatic,
miserable aspects of the characters lives at the destinations they
travel to, but fails to contrast this with wild and exciting times
spent on the road. The film does not convey a sense of travelling for
the journeys sake; they always just seem to be in the car in order to
get to another destination. The only time the film gets anywhere near
the free spirited adventure of the book is when the characters reach
Mexico in the later stages of the film, but this is too little too
late.I did wonder whether the muted atmosphere of the film was a deliberate
ploy of the filmmakers, however the last ten minutes would indicate
not. Here we see the character of Sal typing up the notes he has made
during the road trips, seemingly franticly typing to capture all the
wild, fun, crazy times had on the road. However this does not reflect
what the viewer has just witnessed on screen for the past two hours.Taken on its own terms the film does offer fine cinematography, costume
and the look of the time, as well as some decent acting (hence my score
of 5 out of 10). However as an adaption of a seminal piece of
literature, it deserves to be judged against the source material and in
not capturing the true spirit of the book, it is a big fail.
