5
Too depressingly realistic to be enjoyable

(I'll warn when I get to the spoilers)This is the third in a trilogy which includes Before Sunrise and Before
Sunset. I can't imagine this one being watched as a stand-alone movie
and having anything near the effect it should. In fact, I would even
recommend watching these several years apart. I watched these movies as
they were released, and being the same age as this fictional but very
realistic couple made it more of an involving experience.The strongest aspects of this trilogy are the flowing endless dialogue,
the acting, and the real characters. As opposed to many other opinions
though, I sometimes felt that the dialogue in the last two movies
became too pretentious and condensed to be real. These movies need more
silence, pauses and looks.In Before Sunrise, they were in their early 20s, smart and practical
but open to experience an idealistic short romance based on their
chance encounter. They connected, they were charming, they were real,
and they pulled it off much to the delight of audiences.In Before Sunset and nine years later, for the first half of the movie,
they were unbearably self-obsessed and pretentious and talked at each
other instead of with each other. They spent a few hours together, and
gradually their attraction and chemistry came back, and made you
believe that they may actually recover from their last few years of
miserable relationships and closed-minded lifeless lives that were
obviously bringing them down, as long as they got together and
developed what they had. Some charm and romance crept in despite their
newfound self-deprecating cynicism, leaving audiences with an
open-ended ending full of potential. I hated it at first, then grew to
like it better on second viewing.In Before Midnight, in a too-realistic portrayal, they have been a
couple for 9 years (with kids), but their personality differences have
not been worked on and their marriage is on the rocks.Jesse is a successful writer but his break with his previous wife and
son in order to be with Celine is causing increasing strains in his
current marriage. Little annoying things he does add to the strain, but
what is very obvious in this movie is that she doesn't love him anymore
so every little thing adds to the complaints.Celine in this movie is like an amalgam of every neurosis in modern
women. She is an angry activist, an angry feminist, an unfulfilled
angry wife, a woman who is so lost and confused regarding what she
wants, she cannot be satisfied no matter how many efforts he makes to
clarify things and express his love for her, and she doesn't have the
tools and outlook to fix her feelings for him so this is a Sisyphean
task in any case. As three-dimensional as she is, this is not a
sympathetic character to say the least.*spoilers* Which is why, at the end of the movie, anyone with a brain will realize
that the small bone she throws him at the end is worthless and that
this marriage is doomed. Which is why, as realistic as this movie is,
it simply was not enjoyable. Not that movies need to be fun or
romantic, but I do expect them to be rewarding or insightful in one way
or another. I do not need to go to the movies to watch neurotic people
flail at their last threads of marriage and fail at it miserably
because of commonplace emotional incompetence.If there is a next movie in a few years, the only possible outcome is
that they got divorced soon after this night, and they get together one
more time to talk about how they failed their marriage with humorous
hindsight and resignation. And then they have sex for old time's sake
because the attraction will still be there, although they have no clue
what to do with it. That's my screenplay for the next one.But Ingmar Bergman already covered similar ground with his superb and
recommended 'Scenes from a Marriage'.If it were up to me, I would have made this movie differently: The
fight wouldn't have been so convincingly final. And they would recover
from a vicious fight because they made us believe that they built a
solid loving base with which to recover. That could have been just as
deep, realistic and much more enjoyable.
