4
A yuletide version of The Hangover which is ruined by an overbearing amount of mush and sentimentality

Friends Ethan (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) Isaac (Seth Rogen)and Chris
(Anthony Mackie) are 30 something men who decide to spend the night
before Christmas out on the tiles in New York City. Isaac is settled
down now so this is intended as one last 'hurrah' for the men and when
they hear about the best party in town known as the 'Nutcracker' they
make it their mission to get to this party, but when you're high this
seemingly straight-forward task becomes increasingly difficult for the
three men.Accepting from an early stage that this is nothing more than The
Hangover at Christmas I was initially happy to take it for what it is
and it actually begins OK. The three men are all at different stages in
their lives and join together to try to re-live their glory years. I
found I could identify with the men and was prepared to accept that a
predictable journey of self-discovery was going to ensue for all of the
men...What I wasn't prepared for was just how much mush and sentimentality
director and writer Jonathan Levine managed to cram into this film. Now
don't get me wrong I'm prepared to accept that many Christmas films
have some sentiment in them and I appreciate that Levine was trying to
highlight the importance of love and friendship, but it felt like he
had no real faith in his audience and it seemed that he had to spell
out his message at virtually every single plot turn. Nearly every
amusing moment and scene is rounded off with soppiness and morality and
in themselves these things are not negatives, but when they're featured
in nearly every scene it really starts to grate and become repetitive.
I think the worst example of this was the weed-thief who despite being
a self-proclaimed Grinch still had to have a sappy moment before the
pretty amusing Die Hard parody that followed. It was like Levine was
too frightened to take any risks and thought 'Oh no!!! I better put
some sentiment in at the end of this scene in case I upset the
audience.' I honestly don't believe I ever seen so much sap in one film
and it really does drag the film down.It's actually ironic that Levine loads his film with so much mawkish
sentiment about love and friendship in order to get the audience to
understand what Christmas is all about, but then crams the film with
shameful amounts of product placement and advertisements which
effectively commercialise Christmas which negates what Christmas is all
about; seriously a stretch Limo with Red Bull plastered on the side of
it in huge letters is hardly subtle not to mention the number of times
Red Bull itself is mentioned and Anthony Mackie announcing that his
Sony Experia phone is the biggest phone on the market. When scrutinised
this all seems rather hypocritical.Even if you overlook the mawkish sentiment and the ridiculous product
placement the story is only really effective on odd occasions. The plot
itself is incredibly thin and is painfully stretched over 90 odd
minutes. It's actually past the hour mark before they reach the party
and up to this point the narrative is rather scattershot and unfocused.
The scene where Chris gets his weed stolen is actually repeated twice
and Seth Rogen's drug-induced stupor is amusing at times, but again
becomes a one-note concept that becomes repetitive and tiresome and
Mackie and Gordon-Levitt are never really given any funny material to
work with. One thing I will concede is that their friendship is
generally believable which is one thing that does work in the film's
favour.The Night Before is at its best when it is parodying other films such
as Big, Home Alone and Die Hard and its self-awareness like this that
is one of its biggest strengths. It isn't a complete laugh-dodge either
and there are some genuinely funny moments dotted about here and there
- Michael Shannon as Mr Green is responsible for some of the best
moments in the film and manages to be funny, but in a low-key and
subtle way. However, the relentless mush and sentiment just gets too
much and in some ways it shows a lack of bravery on Levine's behalf -
it really could have been a great anti PC Christmas film like Bad
Santa. The fact that it sells itself as a raucous film about three
grown men getting wasted and off their face on drugs and then
suffocating the film with sentiment ultimately results in a tonal clash
which left me rather unsatisfied when the credits finally started
rolling.
