1
Alien?  Meet Annoying Android with Daddy Issues

I don't really know what to say. I am such a fan of Alien, this movie
truly offends me. It's intellectually offensive and insults the
audience - especially fans familiar with Alien/Aliens. I really just
want to vote and bring the score down for this horrible movie. Others have already said it. The biggest problem is that the plot is
idiotic. Worst writing ever. Prometheus had problems, and instead of
addressing those problems in sensible ways that take us back to the
meat and potatoes of the Alien narrative, which is, you know, THE
ALIEN, it does the opposite, and leaves all those problems in place and
then makes them even worse. Did Alien3 make you mad? Alien4? This movie will make you even madder!
It's not about a personal preference that things be changed here or
there, from beginning to end the movie is a confused mess. The writers
are trying to do way too much. The writers also think the audience is
stupid and can't figure certain things out for themselves. But then the
writers also don't bother trying to fill in some logic huge holes that
deserve some answers. Without spoilers it's difficult to get into
specifics.The thing that is really bad is that this movie is a prequel. So we're
supposed to be filling in story gaps that lead into the movies we
already know and love, Alien/Aliens. This movie creates a narrative
that is insulting to those films. The origin of this awesome Alien
character? I'm not sure why that is something which needs to be
answered to begin with, but, oh, turns out, some jackass that didn't
get enough hugs as a child decided to create it out of boredom. Yep,
that's it. Oh, well thanks for making a whole movie to tell the story
of this stupid idea. This movie takes the great "xenomorph" character and basically neuters
it. Nothing special. Just the invention of a lunatic. What was Scott
thinking, seriously? Here is our alpha character, the scariest science
fiction villain of all time, chop off the testes, replace it with an
annoying android/robot with daddy issues that won't shut up and then
give it the dumbest/cheesiest dialog ever. And then of course the movie then also has the characters doing things
that defy logic/common sense. Similar to Prometheus where Charlize
Theron is running away from a huge wheel in a straight line rather
than, I don't know, turning left or right or something. Or morons
marooned in a cave that decide it's a good idea to play with an alien
snake. Except worse. Situation after situation things like this happen
that insult you. Nobody, even the dumbest of the dumb, would act like
this. Much less professionals who are elite members of a crew traveling
across the galaxy to colonize another planet. Everything that happens
is easily avoided.Beside insulting you in every way imaginable with the completely stupid
plot, the movie is just boring. There isn't much action at all. If you
are hoping to see the Alien doing what it does best, kick butt, forget
it. And instead of giving us the alien we know and love, which is scary
and realistic, they come up with a variety of other CGI aliens which
look very different, fake, and not scary. And there is no rhyme or
reason for any of it. I'm not interested in DNA experiments and the
creation of these other spin off aliens... I want THE ALIEN. I'm shocked to be honest. I don't understand how Ridley Scott can
possibly be so detached from reality. Is the man sub intelligent? I'm
serious. Whoever wrote this is a literal idiot. I don't know how else
to say it. If the Alien franchise didn't already exist, nobody would
watch this movie. It's nonsense from beginning to end. This isn't even
an Alien movie. What is it? I don't know. It was nothing but confusion.
A wannabe Blade Runner/android/robot movie?
