5
Live Girl is Less Verbal than a Male Ghost

"The Book of Henry" has the potential to become a cult classic. There's
a subset of people for whom the shambolic plot of this film will
scratch their itch. Underneath all the autumn leaf clutter and
heartwarming kitchen scenes, there's an unfortunate message about girls
and about sexual assault victims. Warning: this review will reveal the ending of "The Book of Henry." TBOH starts out in one of those idyllic towns you only see in
middlebrow American films. No one has a regional accent. There are
wooded hillsides all around, and scenic waterfalls, and quilts on
couches. You can tell that characters are meant to be coded "poor" or
"working class" because they are wearing Goodwill clothing, but they
manage to live in big Victorians on lots of wooded property. If this
were a real town in contemporary America, I'm afraid it would be one of
those places with a high opiate abuse rate. Susan (Naomi Watts) is a single mom of two adorable boys, Henry and
Peter. Susan is a waitress, she drinks too much, and she is addicted to
video games. Susan's best friend Sheila (Sarah Silverman) is a
sharp-tongued lush with a heart of gold and cleavage so low we can see
her heart beating. Henry is a genius and has the personality, not just of a mature man,
but actually of a saint or a Bodhisattva or Cary Grant, the angel
character in "The Bishop's Wife." Henry spends his time hanging out in
a treehouse designed by Norman Rockwell on acid, creating Rube Goldberg
machines, and amassing hundreds of thousands of dollars – and he talks
to his broker on a pay phone. Where are there still pay phones?
Wouldn't a boy genius have a cell phone? At first you think, okay, this is going to be like a Steven Spielberg
boy's true adventure film. An "ET" crossed with a tad of homebound
Thelma and Louise. But no. Henry looks out his window and concludes, from what he sees, that the
next-door neighbor, Glenn, is sexually molesting his step-daughter,
Christina. Uh, oh. This has just turned into an educational film about
the horrors of child abuse and incest. Or maybe a Eugene O'Neill style
family horror story. Well, there's a fleeting few seconds of that, but
then Henry is hiding in a gun store, learning how to buy illegal
weapons. Okay, this is quite the roller coaster ride. You don't even
have time to make sure you have fastened the safety latch when Henry
suddenly develops a bad headache and worse vision. Henry goes into seizures. It's a disease of the week movie! No, wait! A
handsome surgeon steps in to operate, and to make eyes at Naomi Watts
who, yes, is still in the movie. Is this going to be a romance film?
Where does this train stop? Henry dies. Just like that. The titular character is dead, halfway into
this PG family story / unsuitable for children incest story / true
crime story. His death is so quick and so subtle I didn't realize he
was dead until Susan is shown mourning by obsessively baking brownies
while wearing a chocolate-stained apron. This is where the "Book of Henry" of the title comes in. Note that
"Book of Henry" sounds like a Biblical book. That's because Henry is
now dead and doing good deeds from the afterlife. Susan discovers that
Henry left a notebook with a detailed plan for her to murder her next-
door neighbor, Glenn. So now we are back to this being a Hitchcockian
story. But it never goes there. It never does what suspense or true
crime or horror films do. It continues to play as if it were a
wholesome, small town Americana comedy. The sight of Naomi Watts going
from chocolate-stained apron to staring down the sights of an illegal
automatic weapon with a silencer in a PG movie chilled my blood. Susan comes within seconds of following her dead son's macabre /
wholesome plan to its final, murderous / humanitarian end, but then she
can't bring herself to pull – or as Henry would have it – squeeze the
trigger. She merely informs Glenn that she is on his tail, and Glenn
kills himself. Susan then adopts Christina and puts Christina in the same bedroom that
Henry had previously occupied – with her other son, Peter. No doubt
there will be a sequel on how one of these two needs to be killed for a
subsequent incest flare-up. And the whole thing is meant to be heartwarming and kind of funny. Sheesh. It's hard to talk about this train wreck of a film in any serious way,
but. Christina, the incest victim, says almost nothing in the movie.
She is silent. The obvious thing for Susan to do, even before buying a
high-powered rifle, would be to get Christina alone, away from her
stepfather, with an authority figure and encourage her to tell her own
story. In this Hollywood movie, a dead boy is the master puppeteer for
his adult mother, who is merely a marionette, and that dead boy is more
verbal than a live girl. And that's a disgusting and dangerous message.
