2
"Because Moviegoers Love Stupid Characters!"

DIRECTOR: Good afternoon, sirs! I came in today because I was stoned
out of my mind earlier and I thought of the best idea for a movie ever!
STUDIO: Alright, we're listening! DIRECTOR: So, like, in the near
future, the government will allow 12 hours of crime a year! Like,
murder will be legal and stuff! STUDIO: Okay, cool! Why? DIRECTOR:Uh...
well... because if people go crazy on one day, then they won't need to
do any other crimes the rest of the year! Because all crimes are
created by random murderous passions, right? ONLY SMART GUY IN THE
ROOM: Why don't the rich people just leave the country? That's the
worst idea I- STUDIO: That's so original! People will eat that up. And
it can double as a shallow social commentary! DIRECTOR: Uh... yeah...
social commentary. I know what that is. Anyways, I got Lena Headey and
Ethan Hawke to sign on! STUDIO: Fantastic! I bet you have lots of good
dialogue to go between them.DIRECTOR: Yeah... good dialogue... I know what that is. Anyways, the
dad sells these security systems and the mom is... well... a mom, I
guess. She can sulk a lot. And the older female kid can be a "typical"
sulky teenager who is completely brain dead! She won't see anything
suspicious when her much-older boyfriend, who her father disapproves
of, sneaks into her house on the night murder is legal and says he's
come to see her dad! And the also brain-dead boyfriend can botch his
low-awaited parent killing by yelling out the dad's name before
shooting! He'll die and then the shocked girlfriend will cry and then
wander around the dark house by herself for no reason! ONLY SMART GUY
IN THE ROOM: Uh, why would the boyfriend think she'd continue to date
him after he killed her dad? That's an awful and unnecessary i- STUDIO:
Perfect! It'll be tense when she wanders around because we really care
about her character! Who else is there?DIRECTOR: Well, there'll be another son with that awful super-long hair
that's popular with horror movie boys nowadays! He'll be reclusive and
play with creepy remote control dolls and he'll be the only moral
character in the movie while being completely moronic! He will shut
down the security system without letting his parents know in order to
let a homeless guy in, and then he'll hide him, even though that means
his whole family will die. And then, when he sees his sister about to
go hide in the same spot, he won't yell out or warn her or anything!
And then even later on, he'll hide in the basement and STILL let one of
the invaders sneak up behind him, even though he has a gun! STUDIO: He
sounds so lovable! What about the other characters? Are they dumb too?
DIRECTOR: Oh yeah, super dumb! For example, the dad will have a
complete 180 degree moral change halfway through the movie even though
he sees the purge first hand, as if he didn't already know about it
because he sells security systems for the purge! And then, he won't
even untie the guy he's saving so he can help! He's completely
retarded. And then there's the wife! Instead of hiding and having the
advantage against the invaders, she can get up and wander around so she
can be snuck up on! And then she won't shoot the guy who's threatening
to kill her daughter because... well... she's stupid! And finally, the
lead bad guy will try to kill the main character, but stops and leaves
after giving him a flesh wound in the stomach! And then gets snuck up
on, too! STUDIO: That's wonderful! Movie goers are much more likely to cheer for
stupid characters than intelligent ones! DIRECTOR: Oh and the invaders
will wear masks like "The Strangers"! STUDIO: Great, that movie was
terrifying! ONLY SMART GUY IN THE ROOM: No it wasn't, that movie was
awf- DIRECTOR: I'll be sure to include the max amounts of clichés, too!
Like, a bad guy will be ABOUT to kill a main character, but there'll be
a dramatic pause before he does, and seconds before it happens, he'll
get killed from behind! STUDIO: Genius! That should happen AT LEAST 4
times.DIRECTOR: And for the icing on the cake, the invaders will be like
cultists and recite prayer-like incantations dedicated to America and
the "new founding fathers" because that's what would happen in real
life, right? STUDIO: Perfect! Let's get this movie made. ONLY SMART GUY
IN THE ROOM: **** this, I quit.
