5
Lots of fluff and not much memorability

Despite liking romantic comedy (there are some good ones out there, as
well as some not so good ones) and liking Reese Witherspoon and Michael
Sheen in other things, expectations were low for 'Home Again' due to
the mixed to negative critical reception and mixed audience reaction.Watching it with an open mind 'Home Again' has its bright spots, enough
to make it a one-time watch, and is better than reputed. On the other
hand, it also is an uneven film and mostly forgettable fluff. As said,
it has good things. Witherspoon, being the lead, was crucial for the
film to work, the good news is that, although she has been better in
material worthier of her talent, she gives her character and 'Home
Again' a very likable energy and very sweet charm. The other acting
standout is Sheen, who does bag some very funny (at times hilarious)
moments that gives the film much needed levity and gravitas.The best performance of the three young men taken in goes to Jon
Rudnitsky, his character is the most interestingly written of the three
and he is the most charismatic and easy to like of the three. 'Home
Again' is nicely made with a peppy score, while also boasting a
good-natured sweet tone, some funny, cheerful moments and a few snappy
lines. The children are cute without being overly so.'Home Again' however could have been much better. The film does feel
rushed (while there are some scenes too that limp), which would have
been solved easily with a longer length (15 minutes more would have
made a difference) and trying to do less. It does feel like too much
was crammed in and it consequently means that the film lacks depth in
particularly how the characters are written. Here they are thinly
sketched, one-dimensional and shallow. Humorous and touching moments
are too far and between in a film that has very blandly fluffy romantic
elements and other comedic elements that feel overplayed.Of the three tyros only Rudnitsky works, whereas the other two struggle
to keep up, their characters are too sketchily written, their dialogue
is even weaker and they don't have the expertise or charisma here to
rise above what they're given. Poor Candice Bergen is wasted with
nothing to do, she never gets the chance to show off her charm and
spunk. Some snappy moments in the script and sporadic funny and
touching moments aside, the script is an over-egged and under-cooked
soufflé with its fair share of awkward and cheesy lines and severe
underwriting of the characters and their increasingly predictable and
vague situations. Some interesting ideas and insights here that could
have been delved into more.Story-wise, everything just feels too pat and formulaic, and too much
of it doesn't really go anywhere or feel resolved satisfactorily. There
is very little to the conflict.All in all, fluffy and not very memorable. Not unwatchable however,
there are far worse films out there, of the genre, of the year and
ever. 5/10 Bethany Cox
