8
Much better than the movie critics would have you believe

As "No Escape" (2015 release; 103 min.) open, we see a high level
meeting taking place (drinks are tested for poison before consumption).
It's the Prime Minister (of an unnamed country), and before we know it,
the Prime Minister is murdered. The movie then switches to "17 Hours
Earlier", as we get to know the Dwyer family as they are en route to
Southeast Asia: Jack (played by Owen Wilson), Annie (played by Lake
Bell), and their two young daughters Lucy and Beeze. During the flight
they also meet Hammond (played by Pierce Brosnan), who has visited the
country 15 times and knows the place inside out. Upon arrival at their
hotel, Annie comments "Welcome to the fourth world!", as there is no
functioning TV, phone or internet. The next morning Jack goes for a
walk to by a US newspaper, and inadvertently gets mixed up in a
stand-off between demonstrators and police in riot gear. At this point,
we are not yet 15 min. into the movie but to tell you more would spoil
your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it
all plays out.Couple of comments: first, this movie has gotten pretty negative
reviews from the experts and movie critics. Well, let me tell you, they
are way off the mark on this one. If you have seen the movie's trailer,
you already know that this is in essence one long escape movie 9very
similar in the way that the new Mad Max movie was in essence one long
car chase). Once Jack gets mixed up in the stand-off, he and then his
family in essence run and hide, and run some more, in a city where
there is no sanctuary. It makes for an incredibly tense movie. It must
also be mentioned that the movie is at times outright brutal, making
for some difficult watching. This is definitely not a movie for the
faint of heart. But there are also a number of heart-stopping scenes
that play out brilliantly. The hotel rooftop scene, which is so
reminiscent of the last days of Saigon 1975, will blow you away. Let me
also point out a minus: much of the movie is shot with hand-held
cameras and there are tons of close-ups (enforcing the feeling of
anxiety), which frankly makes for some exhausting watching. Also, I'm
still not 'buying' into Owen Wilson as an action movie guy. On the
other hand, Lake Bell, who shone a few years ago in her own movie "In A
World...", shines again in this one. Kudos also for Brosnan, who still
has the charisma of his James Bond days. When you realize that the
production budget of this movie was just $5 million, a pittance in
today's Hollywood terms, this movie more than delivers the goods."No Escape" opened nationally this past weekend and due to the negative
reviews I was hedging whether to go see this, even though I had liked
the trailer. Well I gave in to my original curiosity. So glad I did.
The early evening screening where I saw this at here in Cincinnati was
attended okay but not great (it was a week night, though). If you are
in the mood for an ultra-tense action drama and you are not faint of
heart, you should check this out, be it in the theater, on Amazon
Instant Video or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray. "No Escape" is HIGHLY
RECOMMENDED!
