6
Do not get ensnared in the hype surrounding this hustle....

In the late 1970s, while America was swinging to rock n roll, exposing
all its flashy jewelery over plunging necklines and under unruly
hairdos, a scandalous entrapment planned by the FBI threatened several
political figures and rocked the nation in its most oddly alluring
time. David Russell reunites his cast from his previous best movies
including 'The Fighter' and 'Silver linings playbook' to tell us the
story of con artists who are led by the FBI to trap bigger fish in an
attempt to expose corruption at high levels. This highly fictionalized
version of the Abscam sting by the FBI has some meaningful
conversations, witty dialogue and glorious nonsense in its overlong
narrative. In an era of resurgent wealth and dynamic lifestyles, success is
achieved with compelling ambitions amidst increasing competitiveness,
only through some hustle. Right through his childhood years of conning
people for his father's business, Irving Rosenfeld (Christian Bale)
used the guise of legitimate businesses such as dry cleaning to conceal
his beguiling loan schemes. Sydney Prosser (Amy Adams), initially
suspicious of Irving's businesses, soon becomes his partner in bed and
crime. Her fake identity as Lady Edith Greensly not only attracts
investors lured by her supposed British financial contacts but also by
her revealing attire. Soon enough however, the con-artist duo is in the
grips of FBI agent Richie DiMaso (Bradley Cooper) who intends to entrap
a New Jersey Mayor along with several Congressmen. Aided by a wire
operator and a bogus Sheikh Abdullah (Michael Pena) who was to provide
the funds for the redevelopment, the hustling of mayor Carmine (Jeremy
Renner) begins with Richie, Sydney and Irving hustling each other in
the process. If that wasn't enough, Irving's loud mouthed, cleavage
flashing housewife Rosalyn (Jennifer Lawrence) gets them all on the
edge with her erratic outbursts and ignorance of the entrapment. This
sexy looking inspiration of the Abscam operation lacks a fast-paced
plot and intrigue that made other conman films such as 'Catch me if you
can' and 'Argo', exciting movies. Loud characters protract several
insipid sequences that outlast their importance from the script. The
seriousness of the entrapment plot is often overshadowed with the
digressed focus on the characters and their relationships and while
this dilutes the story-telling, it isn't such a bad thing when you have
such a talented cast. However, one can only go so far with just acting,
good looks, sexy styles and 70s tunes. David Russell fails to engage
the audience with a tight script and twists in a con-artist's story
that are only few and far apart. Clearly, style over substance was his
approach here with entertainment left solely upon the actors' talents. Christian Bale put on 40lbs for this movie. It isn't the first time he
has transformed himself on-screen and won't be the last. This con-man
draws a line on his wrong doing and hesitates on going too big with the
plan. His love for Sydney grows through the movie but always comes
second to his son's well being. Irving has everything likable about
him, even his weirdly meticulous wig. His softer, more intelligent
character is a sharp contrast to his unabashed wife. Jennifer Lawrence
plays everything that is wrong and right with the film. Rosalyn can be
a big mouth, whining incessantly and trying hard to prove her
worthiness. But she can also be the one character whose presence just
makes you nod in disbelief about what she will do next. That uncanny
ability and its unpredictable deliverance is surely Lawrence's talent
at work that doesn't fail to impress. Bradley Cooper is a hot-headed
FBI agent whose ambition gets the better of him. There are many scenes
where he clearly improvises, such as enacting Louis C.K.'s agent
Thorsen and the epic moment when Sydney lays herself out on the table
for him, he gets so close and simply can't handle it. The most striking
aspect of Cooper's performance is that his character is so
unconvincing. He is ambitious and he has the con-artists by their necks
in his elaborate plan but he is still an amateur who is guided by
instinct rather than experience. Jeremy Renner's Mayor Carmine shows
his devotion to his city and while it took some major hustling to draw
him into the plan, those interactions with Irving were quite a delight
to watch. Amy Adams looks sensational and sizzles in the chemistry she
builds with Irving and Richie. She portrays wit, grace and spontaneity
as they adapt to changing scenarios during the sting operation and
remains ever focused on the plan. Adams may not be as loud as Lawrence
nor as multi-dimensional so to speak but her screen presence is equally
alluring. David Russell hasn't showcased his fine talents in a script that needed
to be funnier, wittier and tighter. The actors improvise on their
greyish characters and provide more entertainment than the script
possibly could. That certainly isn't the film-maker's achievement but
he did choose the right cast that could pull that con off on the
audience. Perhaps that is the year's biggest hustle from Hollywood that
bends the audience into liking material that is portrayed to be far
greater than it should be accorded for. Enjoy it for the gorgeous
women, the committed actors and the stylish times but do not get
ensnared in the hype surrounding this hustle. - 6.701 on a scale of 1-10.
