10
Refreshing Opportunity: Smiles, Songs and Heart

I've seen it 12 times now! A movie that makes me laugh and sing-along
with the characters deserves a 10. Because the experience of going to
the theater should be a positive one. This new ANNIE is a refreshing
opportunity to enjoy and feel good. You will connect emotionally with
the characters (Annie, Mr.Stacks, Miss Hannigan, Grace, and Lou) and
care about their journey. This is a film that celebrates the wonders of childhood: it reminds us
of how precious our little girls are. "Annie 2014" will make you laugh,
smile, and it will warm your heart. There are some wonderful and
touching moments—-those are the moments you look forward to if you
watch this film a second or third or fourth time! Q. Wallis' performance is energetic and genuine. Her singing is
stellar. No wonder why Annie has two Golden Globe nominations (best
actress in musical and best original song). The way Wallis sings
"Opportunity" is breathtaking! Wow!Our contemporary Annie is authentic and smart. She navigates the
streets of New York with the hope that one day the sun will shine upon
her and she will find her parents. I love her assertiveness –"I am a
foster child, not an orphan." In many ways, Annie is a role model... we
should all learn from her! About the other characters: R. Byrne is a
lonely sweet and intelligent assistant who finds a friend in Annie. C.
Diaz portrays a hopeless/bitter failed-singer who now takes care of the
foster little girls. J. Foxx plays a funny, lonely and ambitious
Mayor-of-New York candidate. He too sings with passion and heart. I
love how Lou, the Latin guy, adds a spicy, funny and sweet twist.Any flaws with this movie? Yes. Some songs are bad and some scenes are
terribly silly. But those flaws do not eclipse the great message, the
great music, and the great acting. The more I watch it, the more I love
Annie and her quest. Overall, "Annie 2014" delivers what it promises – music, family comedy,
and sentiment.
