3
Finally, the pain is over

Finally, I've got to the end of this series and I am going to be glad
that there are no more movies to look forward to. Mind you, there is
the Allegrant series, but then again I feel that I am at that stage
where I am going to pretty much ignore the final one in the series
because, well, there is nothing all that different between that one and
this one. Okay, this one was a little darker than the Allegrant series,
though the Maze Runner movies were, I have to admit, somewhat better.
Anyway, I'm not so much talking about those movies, but this one, in
particular why they decided to split the final book into two. Well, I
guess because Twilight and Harry Potter did it, so they probably should
as well. Also, I'm glad that somebody bought the Hunger Games box set
at the church fate because after watching these movies I would be
regretting spending the money on it.Well, Peter has been rescued, but it turns out that they had been
torturing him, and he isn't the Peter that Katnis once new. Well, the
fact that he tried killing her at the end of the last movie does
suggest that. So, somewhat upset at President John Snow (who as a bad
guy, really doesn't come across all that well), Katnis decides to go
and kill him, however Coin won't let her leave the compound due to her
being too precious. Well, she sneaks out anyway, and through the use of
surveillance Coin discovers this (tell be again how these rebels are
any different). So, the old gang gets pack together for a final strike
against the headquarters of John Snow (that name keeps on reminding me
of the really cool Game of Thrones character – couldn't Collins have
picked a different name).As it turns out (I've used this a lot in these reviews), the entire
city has been booby trapped with bombs that explode in particular ways,
and they have a holo generator that tells them where they are. Thus the
movie has them pass one bomb, step into another wiping out half the
party, and then getting caught up in a third one which wipes out all
but a handful. Then they make a mad dash towards the citadel only to be
caught up in a bombing raid.Anyway, all I can say about this film is that it was predictable –
very, very predictable. In fact when it came to the end and Coin
declared herself interim president or an indefinite period I simply
rolled my eyes. Seriously, couldn't it have been a lot more dramatic.
As for the ending, well, it just took forever to end. Seriously, it
could have been much more effective, and much more dramatic than it
really was. In fact, as I watch the film come to an end all I could say
is that I'm not surprised that the film ended the way it did because,
well, all the other endings were pretty horrible as well.
