9
Loving, Forgiving and Just a Little Bit Crazy!

This animated movie directed by Genndy Tartakosky is truly hilarious
and left the audience and me laughing out loud. If you didn't enjoy the
original Hotel Transylvania very much, give this sequel another try
because I truly believe this movie is much better than the original. By far my favorite character is Dracula (Adam Sandler), because he is
such a special character. He is so loving, forgiving and maybe just a
little crazy sometimes. This movie makes me want to have a grandfather
like him because he is so powerful and loving. A continuous joke is
Dracula trying to get used to his cell phone. His fingernails are too
long to type with so he is always frustrated with this new technology.The relationship between Dracula and his daughter, Mavis (Selena Gomez)
is so beautiful and memorable. With very exciting news, Mavis is
pregnant! It's a boy! The strong bond between baby Dennis and his
"Vampa" (vampire grandpa) Dracula, is my absolute favorite relationship
through this whole movie because their love is so strong even though it
is hard for Dracula to accept that his grandson is half human. Dracula
is concerned that his grandson hasn't indicated that he is going to be
a vampire, so he takes five of his hotel friends to try to scare the
fangs out of Dennis. They go on this ridiculous adventure to do
whatever it takes to get Dennis's fangs showing. Will Dennis be more
like his mother who is a vampire, or stay a human like his father?Adam Sandler puts his own spin on this movie. As co-writer of the
screenplay, his goofy short songs pop up throughout the movie. Not only
are the song lyrics funny, but they are also relatable and entertaining
for the audience because he takes commonly known songs such as twinkle
twinkle and alters the words to be slightly inappropriate and silly. The special effects are outstanding and I enjoyed all of the different
things they do with the animation. I watched this film in 3D and loved
how it makes the characters and settings pop and makes each setting
special. In the scene where Dracula leads Dennis and some other monster
guests on a crazy adventure, there are so many special effects that it
becomes total chaos. The message of this film is that no matter how different someone else
is, they could be the best thing that ever happens to you, so love them
no matter how different they are. This film really makes me realize how
crucial to accept others.The character Blobby, a gelatinous blob, is definitely a crowd pleaser
and the younger audiences laughed out loud at his silly antics. The
target audience for Hotel Transylvania 2 is anyone who wants to laugh
and have a good time. I recommend this movie for ages 5 to 18 because
some of the scenes might be a little scary for some young children. I
recommend seeing this movie in 3D as well because it is a very cool
experience and give it 5 out of 5 stars because this movie is truly
hilarious. Reviewed by Lainey A., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic.
