7
Ben Stiller's Labor of Love

"The Secret Life of Walter Mitty" is a short story written by James
Thurber way back in 1939. It was about a henpecked man who escapes into
a fantasy world of danger and heroics to compensate for the
depressingly dull real life he leads.Screen writer Steve Conrad adapts the title and the name and
over-active imagination of the main character and tells his own
original story. Ben Stiller directs and stars in this obvious "labour
of love" of a movie project.Walter Mitty is a timid guy who tends to "space out" and enter into a
world of his own where he is able to do wondrously heroic exploits. He
would rather join an online dating service than to meet this girl
Cheryl at work that he fancies. One day, he misplaced the precious negative of the photograph meant to
be the cover of the last issue of Life Magazine. As his job is on the
line, Walter needs to look for Sean, the globe-trotter photographer who
took that missing photo. Upon deducing that Sean was in Greenland,
Mitty suddenly decides to throw all caution to the wind and just go on
a difficult quest, which will be the biggest adventure of his lifetime.Visually, this film is perfect with its breathtaking cinematography and
unobtrusive special effects. Many scenes, particularly those showing
Walter skateboarding in Iceland, or climbing the Himalayas, were very
memorably shot with unique camera range and angles. The script does fall into melodrama, but I did not mind this. Ben
Stiller was very good as Walter, capturing his shyness and cluelessness
so sensitively. I liked Walter's moments with his mother, played by
Shirley McLaine in a subdued likable manner. I also liked Walter's
awkward romance with Cheryl played by Kristen Wiig, in only the second
role I have seen her since "Bridesmaids." She was also very relaxed and
natural here in a straight role. Too bad we do not see the full
strength of her comic skills.I cannot deny that I was disappointed with how the story went. Once we
reach the second half of the film when Walter actually stops having
fantasies and does things for real already. I know of course that this
was the point of the film, that dreams were there to be fulfilled. I
just felt it somehow lost the spirit of the source short story.Overall though, this was an entertaining feel-good film that will bring
us to places we rarely see on screen. The spectacular photography of
the exotic settings demand that you see this film on the big screen. Despite lofty comparisons with Forrest Gump, Walter Mitty admittedly
does not exactly reach those heights. However, upon watching this film,
you will wonder how something so beautiful-looking could have been
totally shut-out from Oscar or any other award consideration.
