8
A mundane love story between two very different women

This is a good movie. I liked very much the way in which it describes
the birth, maturity and end of a love interest among two young and
attractive humans. The scenes in the park and the interplay of
sentiments and nuances between the two lovers are very emotional and
engaging. The difference of characters is very well presented.The other good point is the sometimes humoristic way in which the down
to earth and pragmatic family and social environment of Adele is
juxtaposed with the artistic, intellectual and avant guard family and
friends of Emma. I think this is the best part of the movie when one
compares the realism of Adele with the artistic license of Emma. The
scenes where both eat with each others family and the ensuing dialogues
are a treat.And now what you are all waiting for: the sex scenes. They are long,
hot and explicit. I can not pronounce with conviction whether they
served the artistic purposes of the movie or not. If someone wanted to
watch the full bloom of a lesbian love story, the scenes may be
considered indispensable, if you just wanted to watch a human love
story between two people that happen also to have the same sex without
caring for so much carnal detail, the scenes could be shorter and more
circumspect. The point nevertheless is that those scenes caused a
sensation and created a furore and debate from which the movie profited
in terms of advertisement. People may now blame or praise it for the
wrong reasons.Both actresses where very good in playing their roles. The portrayal by
Exarchopoulos of Adele as a teacher in a kinder-garden reading to the
children didactic stories with animals or of her abilities as a cook
and her insistence that Emma should eat something while Emma is
consumed by a telephone call in which she raves about her artistic
personality, integrity and vision ignoring Adele and the immediate
environment are superb. She is also an actress which made feel empathy
for her character. Seydoux is also very credible as the pretentious
modernistic and ultimately self-centered Emma. And to conclude with a
personal view I liked Adele much more than Emma as a person...
