10
A non-traditional thriller with another brilliant turn from Brie Larson but an even better one from Jacob Tremblay.

Room is a harrowing thriller, but not in the traditional sense of the
word. It deals with a dark subject matter and the first half of the
film can be quite disturbing. Yet director Lenny Abrahamson (Frank) has
adapted the best-selling novel with grace and grandeur. Here is a film
so artistically unique and deviant, chock full of genuine emotion
thanks to two outstanding performances, that isn't afraid to take risks
and surprise at every turn.Based on the novel by Emma Donoghue, Room introduces us to Ma and Jack,
a mother and son held captive in a garden shed. As we learn more about
their captivity, their world becomes clearer and clearer to us. They
live by a routine, have names for every object in room, and Ma must be
careful as her son grows older and more curious.The film is structured into two halves, and by now it's no spoiler that
the second half deals with their readjustment into the outside world,
and Jack's first time outside of room. The film is thematically
complex, yet never overwhelming. At its core it's about motherhood, but
Jack's unique upbringing complicates things.Director Lenny Abrahamson is no stranger to the strange, and with Room
he's made a masterpiece of filmmaking. The entire idea of 'room,' the
abstract concept of space, is ever-present in the production. In their
bubble of room, Ma and Jack are restricted, as evident by Abrahamson's
close angles and tight shots. The small space allows for high concept
filmmaking, and when they get out of room, it only gets better, with a
new color palette and experimental camera angles through Jack's eyes.
The entire film is seen through the eyes of this child, and it's
genius. What I loved about the book was its focus on Jack and how he
adjusts to seeing this new world for the first time, and the movie
never loses sight of that.I wrote about the pressure placed on child actors in my review for the
incredible Beasts of No Nation, and Jacob Tremblay fits like a glove.
Like Abraham Attah, he isn't a child actor, but an actor who just
happens to be of a younger age. His wide eyes and expressive thoughts
are very believable, and when he sees the outside world for the first
time, it's a thing of beauty. Tremblay has brilliant chemistry with
Brie Larson, and for one second I never doubted her devotion to him. As
Ma faces frustrating upon leaving room, from her parents, doctors, and
the media, she never forgets her son Jack, and always puts his
wellbeing first. Larson taps into this character, one that undergoes a
stunning transformation as she basically lost seven years of her life
being locked up. Her performance will blow you away.The best actors are the ones able to transport you into their
characters' own universes, no matter how isolated from society they
happen to be. Larson, Tremblay, and Joan Allen all have a tremendous
range of emotional ability and are able to sell you on their story not
just for two hours, but for an entire lifetime. With Room, Abrahamson
goes the extra mile with his direction, and director of photography
Danny Cohen keeps all eyes on Jack. The film asks us to examine how we
view the world and how this viewpoint is shaped by our nurtured
upbringing. The result is a breathtaking experience brought to life,
one you won't soon forget.
