10
Summer loving'... had me a blast

Luca Guadagnino made quite an impression on me as a filmmaker with A
Bigger Splash, a film that combined an engaging narrative with some
fantastic performances. With his latest film, Call Me by Your Name,
Guadagnino certainly has the potential to repeat the trick and deliver
more of the same.When Oliver (Armie Hammer), a graduate student, arrives to stay with
the family of his professor in northern Italy, he meets Elio (Timothée
Chalamet), his professor's son. What follows is a summer full of music,
food and romance that will forever change their lives.Rather impressively, Luca Guadagnino follows A Bigger Splash with just
as an engaging film however, he shows a much softer hand when dealing
with the sensual nature of a film such as Call Me by Your Name. It
truly is a beautiful piece of cinema, Guadagnino's direction of the
intimate coming-of-age narrative being a real triumph.There's some genuinely fantastic dialogue included in the screenplay
written by Guadagnino, James Ivory and Walter Fasano. The subtlety of
the comedy is great but it's the poignancy of the words when
relationships come into play that will stay with the audience,
particularly a moment shared between Elio and his father towards the
end of the film. It's silently powerful stuff.Coming to the performances, Call Me by Your Name features two leads in
Timothée Chalamet and Armie Hammer who share such a natural and fitting
chemistry. It felt much like that shared between Cate Blanchett and
Rooney Mara in Carol, effortless and becoming much more impactful as a
result. Chalamet in particular has a very bright future ahead of
himself. There's also a fine performance from Michael Stuhlbarg as
Elio's father to look out for, balancing the comedy and emotion
expertly.I expect people to make comparisons between Call Me by Your Name and
Moonlight given the nature of their subject matter however, I'd rather
not see people try and play them off against one another because they
both deserve such high praise. Being in the company of such a film is a
major achievement for a film like Call Me by Your Name.
