1
Got tricked by paid reviews

I watched this movie yesterday. I was very excited after reading so
many perfect 10 star reviews for this movie so I was expecting a
perfect movie, really!Before I continue, I must say I really love sci-fi movies, and I am
deeply interested in black holes, time travel, wormholes, interstellar
traveling. Wow, I couldn't think twice, this could be the perfect fit
for me! I had really high expectations.For the entire movie I was feeling like: "the best part of the movie
should soon", but never came. I had hard time understanding what was
really happening, and too many minutes of the movie were badly wasted
in dramatic scenes of love, confusing speeches, formulas. All I wanted
to see was the wormhole travel, spacetime and gravity distortion,
galaxies, nebulae, etc. I mean, I wanted to see what is in the deep
space, and what could be human life in a planet million light years
away from us.SPOILERS AHEADMaybe the movie drove me nuts, or I lost interest, but after they
crossed into the new galaxy, all I felt was confusion. I never
understood what was really happening, what were they rescuing, what
were those 3 planets and how they knew too much about them, why was
there a black hole? Even I tried hard connecting every scene and plot
in the movie, I failed. What I disliked the most was the fact that the feeling of discovering
something AMAZING and new was not successfully transmitted to us. I
wanted to feel that great emotion of discovering deeps space but I
failed. Instead the characters talked about crazy physics and plans to
save humanity. Not to mention the multi-plot scenes after the fight,
totally no sense.Please don't get tricked by this website and fake reviews ad I did.
This is reason I signed up at IMDb (first review), to warn others. The
idea of the movie is fantastic, but poorly developed and acted, totally
confusing, too much cliché. Watch it but don't have high expectations
as me, you will be disappointed.
