10
"Do me one last favor, lover. Stay still long enough for me to blow your brains out."

Robert Rodriguez didn't make a good film since the first Sin City in
2005. Now after nine years he is back and Sin City is better than
before. What bothered in the first film was the Clive Owen story The
Big Fat Kill. For some reason it seemed to me that story didn't fit the
tone of the other stories.Sin City: A Dame to Kill For was exactly what we needed in cinemas. The
film is violent in the right way, you care about the characters just
enough to get pulled into the story. The film is not noir because those
times are gone, we will never got another Raymond Chandler or Dashiell
Hammett but I guess this is a fine replacement for this generation.
Let's call it modern noir or neo-noir.All actors exactly fit their roles. Mickey Rourke's Marv doesn't get
much screen time though but Rourke was always great at these types of
roles. Josh Brolin is more suitable as Dwight, he has shown already
that he is excellent at playing hard edge gritty loners. Joseph Gordon
Levitt is always amazing and his story where he acts as a cocky young
gambler is one of the best in the film. Jessica Alba pulls off just
fine the stripper Nancy who never strips. Nancy obsessed with vengeance
seems at first that it will be a ridiculous task for Alba but she
surprises how well she pulled off that side of her character. Which
brings me to the best actor in this film. Eva Green absolutely steals
the show for herself. By her enigmatic presence which just which sends
out sexy vibes but on the other hand also this uncertain vibe where you
might get stabbed in the back by her. Eva Green has made herself a name
as the evil mysterious woman. The title story is also the best one all
thanks to Brolin's and Green's outstanding performances.Rodriguez once again what a fun filmmaker he was and still is. He just
can't go around picking these garbage ideas. Sin City: A Dame to Kill
For is well spent time at the movies. A hard boiled characters filling
up a no good town, doing to each other nothing but bad deeds. Dames are
hot but deadly, men are tough, not talking too much just the occasional
tough one-liner. If these kind of places, stories are your thing then
head back to Sin City
