1
This dog got an 8.1 rating on IMDb?!

Three hours of my precious life squandered on this criminally overrated
embarrassment to everyone involved in its production. Even though it's only January, pic has got to be the hands-down winner
in the 2016 "Anti-Entertainment Winner" category of my own personal
creation, "The Soporific Awards." I actually fell asleep in my theater seat during the boring first
thirty minutes! (The gunfire doesn't start until later, when all the
characters assemble in "Minnie's Haberdashery," a small mountain saloon
which is turned into a virtual prison cell for all of us who were
fooled into plunking down twenty bucks for this dud.) 8.1 on IMDb? I smell a fix. QT must have gotten his film's investors to
vote over and over. There are companies in Hollywood that can be
retained to binge vote for (or even against) a film. I've loved every other pic by QT - I've seen "Pulp Fiction" at least
twelve times. But this pic is so bad that it could (and maybe should)
ruin the careers of some or all of the players as well as QT himself.
QT's "writing" regurgitates the most clichéd, cardboard western roles
that ever populated the screen since the 1930s. And it got the Golden Globe for writing?! GG Host Ricky Gervais may be
right: bribing the right "Foreign Press" members can get you the Globe.
Disgraceful, and a sad commentary on the current banal state of motion
picture art. Boffo B.O. once again triumphs over good writing, cohesive
plot points, inspired casting, committed acting, and engaging
entertainment for grown-ups. You end up either loathing or irredeemably bored - or both - with every
character in pic, since there is not even a scintilla of interesting,
believable human emotion in any of them. QT managed to reduce the likes
of Samuel L. Jackson - one of my all-time favorite actors - to a
two-dimensional, totally predictable, and, worst of all, thoroughly
unoriginal bad guy. The quirky and creepy Michael Madsen was wasted as a second-banana
baddie, but I suppose he got even with QT for his marginalized role by
mailing-in his sedated perf. Jennifer Jason Leigh simply looks lobotomized, even when she is being
hanged in her excruciatingly long "dance" at the end of a rope, (except
her one bright bit of business early on in pic where she covers one
side of her nose with a finger and then mightily explodes an enormous
booger out the other nostril barrel). Bruce Dern looks and acts psychotically stoned out of his mind, in
other words, basically playing himself. It's like the worst "table read" imaginable. Any decent director would
re-cast the whole lot if they read like this at their auditions. Last but not least (though this ongoing error shows up in all of QT's
films as well as those of most other directors) is that no one, NO ONE,
who has actually been shot reacts like it's a flu vaccination. Rather,
the body goes into extreme shock, and the ability to move or think with
any semblance of normalcy is abruptly suspended, sometimes for good.Near the end of pic, Samuel L. Jackson gets shot in the "huevos" from
beneath the floorboards. The bullet should have traveled up through his
body into his skull, killing him, but somehow he can still laugh
heartily and pull up a rope with Jason Leigh's body hanging at the
other end. MEMO TO QT: Hire some Army or Marine combat vets to school you on what
really happens and how men really react when they are shot. Movie or no
movie, we're entitled to some realism for our hard-earned moola,
Quentino.If this had been QT's first film, you would have never heard of him
again, and this waste of film would never have made it to the big
screen.
