8
Well-Done Remake

In the remake of the original Brian De Palma film, and based off of the
novel by Stephen King, Carrie tells the story of young Carrie White
(Chloe Grace Moretz) who goes through life being tormented by
classmates and teachers. The only person she feels close to is her
religion- obsessed mother Margaret (Julianne Moore). After a cruel
joke, one of the popular girls, Sue Snell (Gabriella Wilde) decides to
provide an act of kindness to Carrie by allowing her boyfriend to ask
her to prom. But along the way, Carrie starts to develop telekinetic
abilities that could bring disastrous results if she's pushed too far.I believe that to compare this remake with the original and say which
is better would be completely wrong and impossible. Both films have
very strong aspects of their own that make them both able to stand on
their own. But to discuss this version as a remake itself, I would
definitely have to say it was VERY well-done. The film really gets into
the emotional side of the story, we really get to know Carrie and get a
sense of her loneliness. This in part is due to an excellent
performance by Chloe Grace Moretz in what I really think is her best
performance to date. She portrays the emotions of Carrie with such ease
that you really feel for the character and think of her as a real
person. But when it switches gears and her evil side appears, Moretz
provides a very chilling performance. We are also given Julianne Moore
as Carrie's mother. From the start of the film and until the very end,
Moore shows just how unhinged Margaret White is, and she does it
perfectly. Her performances leaves the viewer really unsettled with her
dead and haunting performance. As for the effects, unfortunately this
remake is filled with a lot of CGI. Does it completely ruin the film?
No. But it does take away a lot of the effect. The prom scene for
example, while much more violent (which I was pleased about), the CGI
was really noticeable. But despite this, some of the effects combined
with amazing camera shots is very well-done. One example being when two
characters are involved in a car crash, the impacts in the crash were
very cool (and slightly disturbing) to watch. So overall, Carrie is a very well-done and perfectly modernized remake
that lets us get in touch emotionally with our lead, plenty of bloody
moments, and most of all, amazing performances by Moretz and Moore. My rating: 8/10
