7
Emphasizes 'style over substance', but still stunningly original.

Having been a fan of Guillermo Del Toro for some time now, I had
expected 'Crimson Peak' to be his next great masterpiece. Although the
film didn't meet my expectations, I can't say that it disappointed them
either.Near the end of the 18th century, aspiring author Edith Cushing
(Wasikowska) meets a struggling inventor by the name of Thomas Sharpe
(Hiddleston). The two quickly fall in love and move into Sharpe's
dilapidating mansion - which is also inhabited by Thomas' sister,
Lucille (Chastain). Once there, Edith slowly realizes that not
everything is what it seems and decides to dig deeper, in spite of the
growing dangers.First, 'Crimson Peak' is not a horror film; it is a 'gothic romance'
(with some horror elements thrown into the mix). The genre hasn't been
visited upon for decades, yet Del Toro does a fine job of offering his
own take on it. The film also contains plenty of blood and gore - so if
you don't have a stomach for that kind of stuff, your chances of
finishing this film are nil (for there are far more disturbing
aspects).The story constantly switches in tone. I get that its a 'gothic
romance' (two genres that can't be any further apart from each other),
but it can get confusing for some people very quickly. One scene might
seem like it was from a romantic period film while the next might seem
like something out of a thriller! I think Del Toro and Robbins did a
fine job of balancing the pacing, but they could have certainly tweaked
a few things and cut the runtime down by an extra ten or fifteen
minutes.That being said, the plot is pretty straightforward - up until the last
third of the film. Again, there are some disturbing details that both
Edith and the audience discover. It took me some time to connect
certain things, but I eventually figured out the bigger picture.
Nevertheless, the very nature of this film will undoubtedly shock you -
and will do it in a way that no other film released this year has.Both Wasikowska and Hiddleston give good performances, but Chastain is
the standout. Her role as a cold-hearted, manipulative aristocrat is
done with sheer excellence; you can't help but suspect of her
something. She allures your attention with her mysterious persona, yet
you can't help but hate her for who she truly is.Just like in any other Del Toro film, the visuals in this film are
amazing. This time, instead of the visual effects (like in 'Pacific
Rim'), the main focus is on the production design and costume design.
Every set, prop, and article of clothing not only have their own unique
design but are also very telling of a scene's or character's given mood
(now that's some good attention to detail). I would honestly be shocked
if this film wasn't nominated for Best Prod. Design nor Best Costume
(although I also wouldn't be surprised as the Academy usually forgets
about films like these).Despite its narrative problems, 'Crimson Peak' is a grand visual
experience that needs to be seen on the big screen (notwithstanding the
blood and gore). Del Toro's directing has not faltered one bit, and he
truly has come up with an original concept that we haven't seen in a
very long time. And although I didn't completely fall in love with this
film, I will say I'm glad I watched it in theatres.My actual rating for this film is 7.5/10
