8
Review: Need For Speed

I remember the first time I saw the Fast and the Furious, and how it 

made me feel after leaving the theatre. By the time the credits rolled, 

I wanted to get into my car and drivefast. Unfortunately at the time, 

I was just barely fourteen years-old and not even able to drive, let 

alone drive fast. Since then, there have been five more entries to the 

Fast franchise, a tragic death within the series and an upcoming 

seventh entry that will no doubt pay homage to the late, great racing 

action star Paul Walker. Obvious comparisons from this film will be 

made to the Fast film franchise, but I can assure you that Need for 

Speed will gracefully race near to, if not speed right in front of the 

series that made street racing cool.



When was the last time you saw a car fly? Like actually fly? And I'm 

not talking about the CGI filled James Bond/science-fiction films that 

show flying cars with wings as the norm in the future. For the first 

time in a very long time at the movies, I had fun! I held my arms 

close, my palms were sweaty, and tension was flowing through me like 

the warm synthetic engine oil of a race car, and it was all thanks to 

the high-octane energy of Need for Speed.



Based on the famous video game franchise of the same name released in 

1994, the film had many hurdles to overcome even before its release; 

horrible track records among critics and in the box office for video 

game film adaptations (Super Mario Bros., Doom, Max Payne); direct 

comparisons to the Fast films; and a television star Aaron Paul 

(Breaking Bad) leading the film. But despite all the hurdles, Need for 

Speed delivers on its promise for an urgency to entertain, enthral, and 

perform, giving a whole new realism to the illegal street racing action 

genre.



Now the word realism can be misconstrued in the context of this review. 

The disclaimer at the end of the film does state that "many of the 

stunts performed were done by trained professionals on closed courses", 

including the actors, who had extensive training with street cars and 

performance racing. Now when I say realism, there is no way we can 

explain that word without mentioning director Steve Waugh. Waugh, who 

was a seasoned stunt performer before he became a director (Act of 

Valor), on films like Bad Boys II, Spider-Man and The Italian Job, 

opted for genuine stunt performances from his actors, director of 

photography, and stuntmen, and mostly abandoned the use of CGI in the 

film, which gives a slight edge to the longing of danger to be put back 

into filmmaking.



The video games, which popularized the use of 'first-person racing', 

put gamers in the driver's seat and revolutionized the way in which 

racing games were made. Need for Speed may be light on story, 

completely absurd on intent and plot, and have many two-dimensional 

characters, but makes up for it in action, thrills, and impulsive 

entertainment. The film then becomes a blend of buddy comedy/road-trip 

actioner/hard boiled revenge thriller that will have you rooting for 

our hero and born underdog Tobey Marshall, with every gear shift and 

sharp turn ahead.



The film spends a hefty amount of time establishing its characters, 

especially its lead Tobey Marshall (Paul). A natural behind the wheel 

but behind on most of his payments on the shop his late father left him 

in Mt. Kisco, N.Y, Marshall makes up for his payments and barely keeps 

the shop afloat and his close friends employed through a string of 

minor street races. After a generous offer from an old acquaintance, 

pro NASCAR driver and suave bad boy Dino Brewster (Dominic Cooper), 

Marshall sees an opportunity for the business to flourish for him and 

his group of loyal friends. But after Dino double-crosses Marshall in a 

race for winner-takes-all, Marshall serves two years in prison, only 

igniting a burning scheme for vengeance.



Need for Speed spends a dedicated amount of time behind the wheel with 

it's characters. From the moment Marshall is released from prison, he 

makes his way to California to the infamous, invite only De Leon street 

race, held by an anonymous organizer. Desperate to use the last car 

that he and his team worked on, a 50th Anniversary Ford Mustang that 

Carroll Shelby reportedly worked on before his eventual death in 2012, 

a car that produces 800+ horsepower and reaches a max speed of 234mph, 

Marshall and his team, accompanied by the wealthy investor associate 

Julia (Imogen Poots) race to an unknown location in search of proving 

Marshall's innocence and making Brewster pay for the death of his 

friend.



In addition to the hundreds of cars and parts that were damaged during 

the production of the film, is the passion and very obvious enjoyment 

of everyone involved. From Cooper, who has been very open about his 

excitement to be in a racing film since the beginning of his career, to 

Paul, who spent months dedicated to stunt driving, Need for Speed is a 

film that can best be described by its resident veteran franchise 

patriarch Michael Keaton, a film that was "born to ride".
