7
Slapstick Heavy Family Fun

From DreamWorks studios comes its latest animated adventure, the
prehistoric family comedy The Croods. It is a slapstick-heavy family
movie that should delight young children and keep parents entertained.The Croods are the last remaining family in an arid desert landscape.
They have survived by following family patriarch Grug's (Nicolas Cage)
rules to the letter, including staying in the cave after dark and
fearing anything that seems new (new is BAAAD). Despite this, teenage
daughter Eep (Emma Stone) wants to break free and rebels against her
father, which results in a chance meeting with the highly inventive Guy
(Ryan Reynolds), who warns her that the end of the world is nigh. When
the Croods' cave is destroyed, the family is forced on a journey into a
strange new world where Grug's rules clash with Guy's techniques for
survival.The Croods is a formulaic movie that sticks to a traditional hero's
journey and relies on typical archetypes, but it's elevated by the
writing and direction of Kirk DeMicco and How to Train Your Dragon's
Chris Sanders. Like Sanders' previous work, The Croods focuses on a
family's dynamic and relationships. This time, the focus is on a
protective father who wants to protect his family physically and
protect his daughter from a member of the opposite sex who suddenly
challenges his position as the alpha male. While the trailers and first
half of the movie made is seem Eep was the main character, it's
actually Grug who goes through the greatest change and learns the
biggest lessons.The story is one about learning, exploring, and using one's
intelligence. It also touches on the idea that it's unhealthy to live a
sheltered life. But at times, the movie lays it on a bit too much with
Guy and his "solutions" leaving Grug on the losing end.Most of the humour used in The Croods is very physical and slapstick
oriented. Characters have Loony Toons levels of invincibility as they
endure intense physical pain. This type of humour obviously appeals to
fairly young children, but I would be lying if I said I did not laugh
at the film at all. The Croods avoids using crude toilet humour to
generate cheap laughs. There is not much in the way of verbal humour,
but there are some running gags, and modernisms are kept to a minimum.
They are still there but they are more putting modern products in a
Stone Age setting, a little like The Flintstones, so they serve more as
pop-cultural winks to adults.As expected from a DreamsWork movie the animation is fantastic. It's
quick and fluid, and the camera flows nicely as it follows the action.
The Croods themselves have a seemingly unpleasant, bulky design to them
but it actually works in the context of the film because the characters
live in the wild, so big and broad makes sense. It is a little
refreshing to see the main female character is not made out to be a
stunning beauty, but rather someone who has been shaped by her
environment. The beginning of the movie starts with in dry,
mono-coloured landscapes before we get to see the bright colours of the
jungle and continually seeing the weird creature reminiscence of
designs of Sanders' previous works.Like other animated movies these days, The Croods has a big name voice
cast and they also do a decent, if standard job. No one disgraces
themselves. Cage is an unusual choice, but he gives a strong
performance. There is only one time when Cage is let off the handle;
Unfortunately, that is when we are experiencing the most modernism the
movie has to offer.The Croods is not going to match the heights of DreamsWorks major hits
of Shrek, Kung Fu Panda, and How to Train Your Dragon. But it certainly
does not belong with the dregs the studio has to offer. It does what it
sets out to do: make a movie that will please children while attempting
to give a positive message and some heart. It has an old-fashioned
sense of humour that leads to a surprisingly enjoyable animated movie.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
