1
Absolutely awful.

Oliver Stone has a reputation of excellent film making (Natural Born
Killers, Platoon), but what I saw in the movie theater last night was
easily one of the worst films I've ever seen in my entire life. First the characters are two dimensional. The two male leads are
introduced as basically "the tough guy" and the "sensitive guy". Their
performances were mediocre at best. Taylor Klitsch was dry and brought
nothing special to the role. The female lead "O" (Blake Lively) seems
to have nothing particularly interesting about her, and her voice
narrating makes the sound of a root canal suddenly more appetizing.
Stone wants the audience to view these three characters as heroes, but
I don't see it. The characters don't do anything significant they just
grow weed, smoke weed, and have sex. Stone tries to get the audience on
our side when he presents the benefits of marijuana but instead it
comes across as 20-30 minutes of "legalize" propaganda followed by 10
minutes of renewable energy information.Speaking of propaganda, the political and social themes in this movie
are about as subtle as prison rape. It seems that instead of making a
film about a group of people who live an alternative lifestyle, Stone
has created a film about alternative lifestyles featuring some people.
Blake Lively narrates a sort of montage of the marijuana industry,
where all the minor characters are young, wealthy, and attractive, not
to mention that marijuana is portrayed as a lifestyle, dare I say
religion. Was this movie supposed to be realistic at some point? I
don't know if I should have been eating popcorn in the theater or
weaving a hemp bracelet. AHHH but the trailer has guns! It features violence! Well... sort
of.... just when you think the movie will redeem itself with some guns
blazing action it simply doesn't deliver on this either. There are a
few explosions that any high-schooler with an M-80 could pull off in
their garage, some CGI blood, and the only good violent scene is so
late in the movie that the audience doesn't react. I don't understand where these millions of dollars went because they
weren't in this movie, either Oliver Stone is a terrible film maker or
an awesome crook. Terrible acting, terrible action, terrible script,
absolutely TERRIBLE. Save yourself the aggravation and skip this movie.
I haven't been this upset with cinema since Bill Murray did Garfield. I
feel so strongly about this film that I will never spend my money on
another Oliver Stone movie ever again.
