8
An Excellent Though Slightly Repetitive Sci-Fi Thriller

Infinity Chamber is an excellent Science-Fiction Thriller set in a
futuristic dystopian world, yet all we see of it is a sparse automated
prison cell and the simulation of quaint coffee shop in the main
character's mind. The viewer is dropped into the story not knowing
anything about the main character or the world, and the movie slowly
doles out details piece meal. For most of the film all we really know
is that Frank Lerner, played perfectly by Christopher Soren Kelly, is
an intelligent man (perhaps a tech expert) that was kidnapped/arrested
by an authoritarian regime. He may or may not be an innocent person
arrested due to mistaken identity, a criminal, or an important member
of the resistance. His only companion in the cell is the voice of
Howard (Jesse D. Arrow) behind a camera, who's in charge of keeping
Frank alive, and Gabby (played adequately by Cassandra Clarke) who is
the owner of a cafe that exists in his mind.Here is where the best and the worst parts of the movie come into play.
On one side of the Infinity Chamber is a device that hypnotizes the
prisoner, putting him into a simulation of the last day of his life
before he was arrested, where the computer looks for something it
thinks he is hiding. I really enjoyed the mind bending series of events
that this device created, where throughout the film the viewer and the
character begin to lose their grasp on reality. However, it's also
where the film gets a little boring and repetitive, as Frank relives
these moments over and over with only (for the most part) solitary
prison scenes to break them up. There are many interesting moments
within these scenes, but I can definitely see why some people might
lose interest before the climax of the film. Still, I found myself
absolutely enthralled with the movie, and I really enjoyed the crooked
web the story weaved.Now, I have one other thing I wanted to talk about before finishing
this review, but I can't do that without spoiling the tricky ending. If
you want to see my spoiler free video review, that's over here:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lYpgQ5dhLCg ------ SPOILERS ------So obviously spoilers ahead, but here's how I took the ending of the
film. I really liked the ending where he feels like he knows the girl
in the cafe, but in reality he only knows her from all of the
simulations, where part of his mind was portraying her. It's a cool
ending, but then after he reveals the location of the flash drive with
the virus behind the picture and throws it out, the camera pans out
revealing what looks like the camera (Howard) from the cell on the
ceiling of the cafe. I believe that the viewer is supposed to think
from that is this was just another simulation, that he wasn't free,
that this time he let his guard down and told the machine where he hid
the virus. That's another interesting, although more depressing ending.
However, that doesn't quite work because every other simulation only
took place during one day, and the guy was always able to ascertain
that it was a simulation. It's tough to tell, but it seems like it's at
least been multiple days of completely new experiences that the
Infinity Chamber and his mind would have had to create. Also, that
might not be the same camera as the one in the chamber, it could just
be a camera.This is where the comparison to the movie Inception could come in, as
the movie ends without showing the viewer whether the top keeps
spinning or falls down, and in Infinity Chamber the viewer isn't shown
whether the camera has a red light and is the same as the one in the
cell or if it's completely dead. So I'm not 100% sure how we're
supposed to take it, but I think that it was on purpose, and there's
more than one way to view the end. Personally for my Mind Canon I'm
going to say that it was just a random camera installed by the
authoritarian regime, and that Frank really is free, but I think that
the creator of the film probably intended the opposite. Still I really
enjoyed Infinity Chamber and would recommend it.
