9
One of the best movies of the year so far

"Captain Fantastic" (2016 release; 119 min.) brings the story of Ben
and his 6 kids. As the movie opens, we are looking onto the
breath-taking landscapes of western Washington. The camera then zooms
in on a deer, and before we know it, the deer is killed by a brutal
knifing (with audible gasps in the theater audience). It turns out to
be Ben's oldest son. Ben exclaims proudly "today a boy is dead, in his
place is a man!". We get to know Ben and the 6 kids, ranging from 17 to
about 7 or 8 in age, as they live completely off the grid. As we wonder
"where is Ben's wife/the mom?", we learn that Leslie is in the hospital
due to bipolar disorder. One day Ben drives into town to call the
hospital to see how Leslie is doing... At this point we're not event 15
min. into the movie, but to tell you more of the plot would spoil your
viewing experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it all
plays out.Couple of comments: this is the second feature length from
actor/writer/director Matt Ross, who previously directed the under the
radar "28 Hotel Rooms". Here he brings something completely different,
and a social experiment at that: what if you raise a family completely
off the grid, in a utopian but clear anti-capitalistic setting, without
any interaction with the "real" world, and what would happen if at one
point those children are forced to confront the "real" world.
Fascinating idea, and one that Ross examines quite nicely. The movie
excels even more due to the performance of Viggo Mortensen, which is
out of this world, but truth be told: the six kids are quite
outstanding as well. The movie is pretty much perfect for the first 90
min., but then struggles to come to a reasonable conclusion,
regretfully. There is also an outstanding score for this movie,
courtesy of Alex Somers and performed by Somers and Jonsi (of Sigur
Ros). Apart from the score, there are a number of other good song
placements throughout the movie (but not Elton John's "Captain
Fantastic and the Brown Dirt Cowboy", if you were wondering). Can't
wait to check out the soundtrack."Captain Fantastic" won Matt Ross the best director award in the "Un
Certain Regard" showing at the Cannes Film Festival in May. The movie
finally opened at my local art-house theater here in Cincinnati and I
couldn't wait to see it. The Saturday early evening screening where I
saw this at was attended very nicely, I am happy to say. It seems that,
other than the gasps in the opening scene of the movie, the audience
really enjoyed the movie. I know I did. If you are interested in a very
solid family drama with a unique social experiment, you cannot go wrong
with this, be it in the theater, on VOD or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray.
"Captain Fantastic" is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
