6
Same rules apply

Five years after Cass, Jon S. Baird comes up with his second feature
film for the big screen, an adaptation of Irvine Welsh's novel "Filth".
This was truly one shocking movie. It's about a rogue cop on his way to
promotion and how his mental illness actually result in demotion, which
turns out as the final nail in his coffin. Sometimes, its most extreme
moments worked actually pretty well to develop the main character and
the story, but sometimes it also added nothing and felt really only
included for nothing but shock value. The one scene that comes to mind
particularly is when the main character catches an underage girl in
sexual activity with a grown man and threatens that he'll tell her
(very influential) father unless she gives him a blowjob. So yeah, you
get the full program here: vomiting, sex, drugs, violence, murder...
However, the suffering of McAvoy's character is occasionally also
depicted in a more subtle manner (e.g. when we find out why he became
what he is, his previous and possibly next family are referenced or
during his video message to his friend near the end) and that's where
the film is usually is at its best. Above that, you could certainly
make a point that his homophobic, racist and misogynist comments are
not really what he is like, but truly more a symptom of being hit
metaphorically in the face one time too many.All in all, it's 90 fairly entertaining minutes, but definitely not for
the easily offended and I'd like to put special emphasis on Jim
Broadbent's hilariously ludicrous portrayal of an insane psychiatrist,
which may have been the highlight of the whole thing. The animal
effects are completely insane as well and almost shocked me as if in a
horror movie when they appeared totally up out of nowhere. The film is
nowhere near my favorite works of 2013, but if you liked Keitel's or
Cage's "Bad Lieutenant" or the more recent "Sightseers", this may be
exactly your cup of tea and it's probably even one step up in
crassness.
