6
"Megan Leavey" is a solid and touching, but slight movie.

"Megan Leavey" (PG-13, 1:56) is technically a bio-pic about a U.S.
Marine serving as an MP during the Iraq War, but what it's really about
is that Marine's relationship with her partner, a military working dog
named Rex. Throughout history, militaries, such as the Egyptians,
Greeks, Persians, Britons, Romans and Americans, used canines in a
variety of roles, such as in combat as attack dogs, and as hunters,
trackers, searchers, scouts, guards, sentries, messengers, mascots and
therapy dogs. Military working dogs in K9 units are assigned a specific
handler, with whom the dog bonds, trains, serves and, when necessary,
protects. The special relationship between such dogs and their handlers
has been portrayed in various forms in movies like 2017's "A Dog's
Purpose" and 2015's "Max", which mirrors the real-life story of a dog
named Lex, who went to live with the family of his handler after the
handler was killed in Iraq. An increasing number of military working
dogs are adopted by their handlers after the military deems the dogs'
military service complete and retires the dog from active duty, but it
hasn't always been that way. "Megan Leavey" is the true story of a U.S.
Marine's bond with her dog and her long fight to adopt him.Megan (Kate Mara) was drifting. After high school, she had no purpose
in life. She lived with her mother (Edie Falco) and stepfather (Will
Patton), but didn't actually do much of anything, especially after her
best friend died from a drug overdose. Seemingly on a whim, Megan joins
the Marine Corps. After she completes basic training, she is trained as
an MP, but her lack of self-discipline is still a problem and she
quickly gets in trouble with her commander. Her punishment (or
"corrective training", as the military calls it) is to work for a
hard-nosed Marine called Gunny Martin (Common), cleaning out the
kennels of the military working dogs. Megan develops an interest in the
K9 unit, but she has to convince Gunny Martin of her reliability and
dedication, so she is given an ammo can attached to a rope which she is
forced to pretend is a dog on a leash that she puts through its paces
on a K9 training course. When a handler preparing for deployment is
bitten by his dog, Private First Class Leavey is ordered to step in.With little time left before that scheduled deployment to Iraq, Megan
works hard to train up, complete Rex's training and bond with her new
partner. Rex is known as a very difficult and aggressive dog, but Megan
manages to tame the savage beast and they end up making an effective
and respected team while serving in combat. Megan and Rex are called
upon to patrol ahead of everyone else in an effort to find IEDs before
they can harm American troops. After some success, Megan and Rex get
separated. She begins to work tirelessly to find Rex and, ultimately,
to get permission to adopt and care for him. In the midst of all this,
Megan works through challenging relationships with Gunny Martin, a K9
unit mentor (Tom Felton), a flirty fellow dog handler (Ramon
Rodriguez), her clueless mother and stepfather and her birth father
(Bradley Whitford), but all the while, Megan's biggest concern is her
relationship with Rex."Megan Leavey" is a solid and touching, but slight movie. The script by
Pamela Gray ("A Walk on the Moon"), Oscar nominee Annie Mumolo
("Bridesmaids") and Tim Lovestedt (co-writing his first film), and the
direction of Gabriela Cowperthwaite ("Blackfish"), give us a realistic
look at military life and combat deployments, while keeping the focus
mainly on the affecting relationship between Megan and Rex. The
subplots of Megan's human relationships give us a good picture of who
she is as a person and are well-balanced from a story-telling
perspective. But in the final analysis, this is still "just" a story
about one Marine and one dog, presented as if similar situations had
not happened before or since (which they have). The writing, acting and
directing are all strong and produce a film which many Movie Fans will
appreciate, especially those interested in military life and those who
love four-footed heroes. "B"
