1
Apparently it's good to be bad, should be DC's tagline

Where to start, where to start? This is probably the main problem of
the DCU at the moment. They're playing catchup to Marvel, they see
Avengers they want in. The problem is, Marvel have spent 4,5 & 6 movies
setting it up. We care if Cap gets hurt, we understand the Hulks
turmoil and we saw Starks motivation for donning the suit. But here
we're introduced to a whole new cast, backstory and all, in 30 mins
tops. It just doesn't work, it's rushed, it's lazy and it has no effect
in making the audience care about these characters; which in a movie
where the stakes are so high, does not bode well. So here's what I
thought of each character:- Will Smiths Deadshot - has by far the most screen time and manages to
annoy in every single scene. He hits all the clichés, slo-mo gun catch,
CHECK. Says the movie title, CHECK. Even when he's playing a cold
blooded assassin, he's a good guy. Rating 2/10- Margot Robbies Harley Quinn - looks the part, has the voice, has the
insanity. It works well. Some of the jokes miss and some of her stuff
is very repetitive but she's the best of a bad bunch (pun intended)
Rating 7/10 (let down by the writing, she's great as Harley)- Jai Courtney's Boomerang - here's something I never thought I'd
write. Jai Courtney acted well in this film. Criminally underused,
could have been such a Deadpool-esque self aware character but again
the writing (and Will Smiths screen time) sold him short. Rating 6/10- Jay Hernandez El Diablo - starts off boring, does some fire stuff and
some CGI stuff. Lame. Rating 3/10- Viola Davis Amanda Waller - the best part of this film, even if her
motivation is kind of all over the place. She's menacing, but justifies
it. Rating 9/10- Cara D Enchantress - Abysmal. She can't act, simple as. Why she got
the job is beyond me. She's monotone, she has no emotion, she just
can't act. Stop. Stop giving her parts. She's awful. Rating 0/10- Joel K Rick Flag - Insipid. Boring. Tom Hardy would have been miles
better. But I wouldn't want to hurt his career by being in this trash.
Rating 2/10- Killer Croc 4/10 pointless- Katana 3/10 pointless- Slipknot 0/10 pointless- Batman 0/10 pointless (just in it so he can be in the trailer and
sell more tickets)- Jared Leto Joker - Pointless. Again only for the trailer to sell
tickets. He's weird, he's creepy, but he is NOT the Joker. He's
Scarface with mental problems and a fetish for tattoos. They used very
similar imagery to Heath Ledgers in some scenes. But then went batshit
crazy (pun intended) in others. Unlike Heaths Joker who had a clear
plan of just wanting chaos, this Joker is just meh. Take him out of the
scenes he's in and it wouldn't change the scene, take his scenes out of
the movie and it wouldn't change the movie. He's hardly in it but he
gets a 10/10 for disappointing in every scene he's in. Rating -10/10Finally, it wants to be the avengers, it wants to be Guardians of the
Galaxy, it wants to be the Dark Knight, it wants to be Deadpool, in the
end it was just another DCU film. A ringing endorsement if ever there
was one.
