2
A Disgrace

We've hit a point of no return in terms of remakes: the recent
announcement of yet another Indiana Jones film, Disney's intention to
produce a new Star Wars film every year, and a mooted reboot of Peter
and Elliot the Dragon (!) go a long way to showing the complete
inspirational bankruptcy of blockbuster filmmaking. And in case that
picture isn't sharp enough for you, along comes Jungle Book to
crystallize the issue.The original is among Disney's most perfect creations, and simply
reissuing it in theaters might have accomplished what the present
abomination did financially, without any of the wasted effort. What we
have here is a deconstruction of the original, where every spin on an
old idea misses the mark and every new "idea" turns out to be pointless
and predictable.In true flop-fashion, the problems can be traced to before a camera was
even unleashed: the casting becomes and end unto itself, despite a
weird mismatch between voice and animal or performance. That blend
manages to be less convincing than Homeward Bound (and they used real
critters). Ben Kingsley barely pulls off Baghera, but Murray and
especially Christopher Walken are embarrassing, especially during the
latter's cringe- worthy rendition of "I Wanna Be Like You". The real
disappointment is poor young Neel Sethi as Mowgli, who is hung out to
dry, too often betraying the digital fakery around him.The throwback moments are mostly appalling, and the additions, all
padding, are yawn- inducing: King Louie has a huge temple? Of course it
will crumble during a by-the- numbers chase scene, with none of the
humor of the original. The film also awkwardly acknowledges its own
pointlessness: since the only way to "improve" on the original is to
make everything faster, louder and bigger, serpent Ka is bigger than
even Anaconda's titular joke was, and Louie could take King Kong in a
fight, while the climactic jungle fire setting the scene for Mowgli's
showdown with Khan could probably, in this incarnation, be visible from
space.So there you have it, a tale full of sound and fury, told by idiots
etc, as the poet said. White noise. Meanwhile, it hardly registers as a
blemish on a more recent poet, original author Rudyard Kipling, who
would simply be appalled.
