3
Is this movie really necessary?

I have a couple of issues with the messages in this movie. The music The plot holes The execution of the ''True Love''OK. This movie to me is very overrated along with its ''Let it Go''
theme song. What happened to Disney after the 90s? None of the songs
are that great the way there hyped up to be. No way does the music
measure up to, The Lion King, Beauty and The Beast, Aladdin, The Little
Mermaid etc etc. The day Anna is able to go outside the castle, she falls in love with
Hans ,some prince she bumped into. Long story short, She asks for Elsas
blessing to get married to Hans. Elsa says no '' You can't just get
married to some guy you just met''. AH here we go with the feminist
fantasy. The entire movie is full of mocking love at first sight. Why?
Princess stories that have love at first sight in them aren't as evil
as people think. Their Fairy tales. There called make believe stories
for a reason. Not to be taken so seriously like a woman's whole life
depends on it. (Because Cinderella is the reason Miley Cyrus turned out
the way she did). Later on in the movie Anna gets hurt by Elsa and the
only way to save Anna is with the power of true love. Everyone in the
movie thinks '' OK so that means go get Hans so Anna and him can kiss
and save Anna from her death'' the plot goes on to make Hans a villain.
Because a Prince Charming can actually be a bad guy ladies. Hans true
motives all along were to take over Elsas throne and kingdom for
himself using Anna. He tries to kill both Anna and Elsa to fulfill his
master-plan. It doesn't work out, Anna saved the day by stopping the
blow of his sword before it reached Elsa. So shes saved from being a
ice sculpture forever with Elsas love, Anna sacrificed herself for Elsa
instead of kissing Kristoff. (This other love interest). Past princess movies like Snow White and The Seven Dwarfs, Sleeping
beauty, both needed a True loves kiss in order to break their curses.
So why make so much fun about it? The Evil Queen and Maleficent
specifically said that the only way to break there curses, was by TRUE
LOVES KISS. The end. So for everyone making fun, go back and re-watch
the movies. It wasn't the princesses fault they were cursed or that the
only way for there curses to be broken was through a kiss. This is what I can't stand the most out of this movie. It pretty much
put down falling in love at first sight and true loves kiss saves the
day, while putting itself on top. Couldn't the movie be done without
all the feminist preaching? ''True love is between family not some guy
you just met a few hours ago, Prince charming can really be just a bad
guy. You should focus on you relationship with your family instead of
being a lovesick girl devoting you time to a guy.'' Oh my how realistic
and reassuring. Is this movie suppose to be aimed at drunk tourist at Las Vegas? Who
gets married after a few hours of meeting someone in real life? Of
course you have to date for a while before even uttering the word love.
Women and men alike know this. We aren't that clueless and dense. In
the real world I actually have to work and go to college. Unlike Anna
and Elsa... talk about a reality check. Princesses are usually
privileged. Being daughters of Kings and Queens. Or their women who
marry princes. Either way you look at it 99% of the female population
naturally doesn't fit in. Does it make it such a bad thing? No. Fairy
tales are just that. And we simpletons know this. Hell... people have
sex before love. Live together for years and still look at each other
wondering if they want to spend the rest of their lives with that
person. Lets get over being cynical with the old school princess stories and
enjoy them for what they were.
