8
An Entertaining Adaptation of King Arthur & Excalibur Sword

Wow, this is one heck of a movie. I was overwhelmed with some of the
scenes, especially the fighting scenes in the beginning, the middle and
also in the end. There was a wonderful opening credit scene which I
felt was very awesome. It lasted probably only 5 minutes but it really
impressed me. And, the movie also had some brief parts which were fun
to see, like the scene when Arthur was telling the story about the
Vikings. Out of the whole fighting scenes, the one that I enjoyed most
was in the middle which I felt was rather breathtaking and having an
ultimate amazing ending.Apart from the cool action sequences, the movie also had some dramatic
moments and surprises. I really think that the way Guy Ritchie directed
this movie made it very enjoyable. I did feel some similarities with
other movies that he directed like the 2009 Sherlock Holmes movie and
its sequel Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows in 2011, especially in
the part of using pieces of flash backs to explain something.I think the special effects to the movie was very good, which should
not be a surprise considering it has a USD 175 million budget. My only
worry is with such hefty budget, it may not be having a large profit
since the movie itself might not appeal to some hardline fans of the
folklore of King Arthur, Excalibur, mages and so on, due to the rather
unusual way of story telling. Some people might also feel that the
movie lacks the cruelty & violence of a medieval era war kind of movie
such as Kingdom of Heaven or Game of Thrones TV series. For my personal
view though, this movie was just nice since its attraction is certainly
on the way the story being told, and again, its fighting sequence. The sound effects of the movie were very good. Some background music
truly gave extra sense of suspense or sadness and so on. The duration
of 2 hours was just perfect to me, and I honestly felt there was no
dull moment. There was no post-credit scene for you to wait, except if
you enjoy listening to the soundtrack song & music. Before I forgot,
there was a cameo appearance of the popular soccer player David
Beckham. Let's see if you noticed him.So for those who want to enjoy a nice action adventure film in the
medieval period with some sword and sorcery plus the background of King
Arthur with the knights of the round table, then you would definitely
enjoy this one (especially if you are a fan of Guy Ritchie's works).
Now if you are not a fan of this kind of movie or you prefer a more
bloody/violent movie, then perhaps this one would be a bit soft.For my complete review, pls have a look at
michaelnontonmulu.blogspot.co.id
