1
Garbage movie - designed to make money for Brad Pitt

This film gave me a feeling of initial distaste, which rapidly grew to
anger, and yes FURY, as the story line progressed. Compared to the
masterful 'Saving Private Ryan' this film was a prime example of how to
make a piece of garbage and, with a major star in the leading role and
good marketing, turn it into a box office winner. Where do I start?
Well, the tank crew is a bunch of thugs who look as if they just came
out of jail - yeah we saw it all before in the 'Dirty Dozen', the
'Bridge at Remagen' and so on. But these guys had no redeeming features
at all - just a bunch of psychopaths with guns. Even the Brad Pitt
leading character took pleasure in killing enemy prisoners and
encouraging the innocent young recruit to do likewise. Yes, these ugly
incidents did happen in the war, and US soldiers were often guilty of
such 'heat of the moment' atrocities, but they were exceptions, NOT the
rule! And to make this behaviour seem normal is highly irresponsible,
not to say defamatory to the US Army. Then there is the perpetuation of
the old myth about the Waffen SS being cruel maniacs etc when in
reality they were highly disciplined and effective soldiers who often
behaved more correctly than the Wehrmacht. The apex of stupidity came
in the long climactic final scene in which the Pitt character and his
three colleagues kill hundreds of SS troopers with a single broken down
Sherman tank before finally being overwhelmed and killed - the naive
young recruit being the only survivor. I could not believe what I was
seeing. This is war for the video gaming generation, not for anyone who
has actually gone through this hellish experience. The Germans ran
around like headless chickens and let themselves be mowed down by
machine gun fire like turkeys. This is so unbelievably moronic that it
makes one cringe with embarrassment. I felt I should have asked for a
refund after watching such crap. Awful.
