10
A Great, Well Thought Out Movie

Some people who also wrote reviews mentioned that they thought that
there were many plot holes, and in general this movie was not "scary."
There are more than just one type of scary. While some aspects of the
film are flawed (the plot was predictable, as are all possession movies
are) for the most part, it was, while not a great "horror movie" a good
suspense movie.The movie opens extremely fast, but after that, slows down to an almost
complete stop. However, the intensity of the film builds from there as
the story progresses, and you start to feel the suspense. Now while
this movie is not particularly scary, there are several aspects in it
that particularly me out. For one, the transformation that the daughter
goes through is horrific. You start to see her go from an innocent
little girl, to something that isn't even remotely human, something
that has no emotion or care.Secondly, you see the family being torn apart as the malicious spirit
delves deeper and deeper into the little girl, taking control of her,
hurting her. You can see the little girl lost as the demon ravages her
body like a plague, like she's looking through a window, lost to the
world.In addition to this, the story is pretty well thought out. One of the
above reviewers said that, though the moths have several appearances in
the film, they do not have a substantial role in the film, that they
were put there just because, "The director likes moths." If they would
have taken the time to pay attention to the film, they would have
realized that the reason that the moths are there is because one of the
people who had formerly been possessed by the spirit had put a moth in
the box in order to bind the spirit. A little research and you would
find that if a creature, living or dead, is put in a box like the one
in the movie, then the spirit can take that form, or manipulate
creatures of its like. Another example of this is the tooth. She was
able to cause the mother's boyfriend's teeth to fall out purely because
other teeth had been placed in the box, giving her, the demon, the
ability to manipulate them.There are also several moments in the film that are scary purely
because the imagery is so detailed and believable. An example of this
would be the scene where Em is getting the MRI. The lights flicker, the
screens flash images, and then suddenly a face forms. A face that you
can clearly see is moving, though the pictures had already been taken.
Really creepy. Not scary, but creepy.The ending was slightly unexpected, maybe a little unbelievable, but it
added to the overall feeling of the film: gloom, depression,
desperation, unfairness. Despite what other people said, I think that
this film was great. They should see it not for a film of the horror
genre, but of suspense. And while the movie is not scary, it certainly
is creepy.
