8
Jack Sparrow Returns!

Finally a Pirates of the Caribbean movie that I felt quite at par with
the original one. I felt in this movie, the elements of entertainment
were quite abundant. Unlike in the 4th installment, I think this one is
funnier, more thrilling and gave the sense of happiness at the end.
This time,, the movie was not solely telling the story of Jack Sparrow.
Instead the other characters, especially Henry and Carina were given
quite a lot screen time. It was nice to see Jack Sparrow's charm and
wit plus his insistence of helping other people.This movie provided some background story of Jack while he was young,
which was very interesting to see. The movie was filled with lots of
fun and laughter but also few brief touching moments. The story was
good and there were some surprises too. As a high budget movie, the
movie was filled with very good special effects (some done by the
Industrial Light Magic). I totally loved the effects of the deads
(Salazar's crews), his ship and of course the very cool special effects
at the end.I also felt that the movie did not have any dull moment. From beginning
till the end, there were always something interesting to see. My wife
and I were entertained throughout the whole movie which was having a
duration of a little over 2 hours. Amazingly, due to the sense of
excitement, my wife was able to hold going to the bathroom till
finished. I guess she forgotten about it while watching.Actually, even though I looked forward to see this movie, I was a bit
skeptical at first about whether this one would be good enough. I felt
that the 4th one was a little bit dull, and also a bit forced. The
story for that one did not feel strong enough and certainly did not
give a lot of impression. But this one really felt it was worthy of
giving another sequel after this. Especially if you wait till the very
end, after the end-credit scene, where we were given something
interesting to ponder. Might be the potential story for the sequel?
Perhaps if this one is successful enough.I believe this one really worth to see. I am happy to see Johnny Depp
in this movie which I hope would be a commercial success for him. Since
his past few movies were unfortunately not really successful ones.
Maybe people grew tired of his acting as unusual characters. So if you
are looking for something fun, light, interesting movie with funny
charming pirate and treasure hunt story, you should definitely watch
this one. I am confident you would be entertained like my wife and I
were.For my complete review, pls have a look in
michaelnontonmulu.blogspot.co.id
