1
This movie is an insult to any Persian

I'm a Persian, I watched the movie last night and I think it was really
unjust to our history, and it's not making it OK by simply saying that
it was made upon a comic book, there are many points which I couldn't
close my eyes on and this is why I'm writing this. if you don't care
about the accuracy of historical events you will probably enjoy the
movie and in that case you don't need to read this review just move on
to the next. But if you are aware of the conflicts between the east and
west, the history of Greko- Persian wars and relationships etc you will
suffer thorough the movie and here is why: 1- The history is twisted in
the movie and very one sided 2- The movie makers present Persians as
terrorists since they use suicide bombers to win the battle which is a
shame, how could they relate something that accrued just in the recent
history to a great nation like Persia!. 3- The Persian king Xerxes, is
presented as a cowered, Darius, father of Xerxes was killed by
Themistokles, a Greek general, and before his last breathes he tells
Xerxes that "do not repeat my mistake, only gods can defeat Greeks"!
while Darius never left Persia to attend this war and he was not killed
by Themistokles and until this day, Iranians are visiting his tomb and
paying him respect. 4- The customs for Iranian soldiers and the king
himself are simply Arabic customs, the general who trained Artemisia is
a black person, with my respect to Arabs and every other racial group,
I'm I the only one who notices this movie and feels deeply sorry for
the racist movie makers?! Is it hard to tell Persians and Arabs and
Blacks apart? It's just sick man who are these wild, not civilized
people with long beards in this movie? With a simple look at the
statues of Persepolis you can find out how Persians looked like. 6-
Muhammad Dandamayev a Russian historian, mentions in his famous book "A
political history of the Achaemenid empire"; that after the Spartans
killed the Persians messengers they realized what a big mistake they
did and sent two soldiers to Persia so they can be killed instead of
the Persian messengers and Xerxes tells them "I would be like a nation
that violated the internationally known values and performed a
disrespecting act of cowardliness" apparently this scene was shown as a
remarkable thing to do in the movie 7- Last and most important point is
in the movie, the Persians did not care about the slaves and the
soldiers who were killed but the Greeks were defending not only their
country but the freedom and democracy and apparently they don't have
any slaves working for them, while slavery was widely spread at that
time and it wasn't like the recent slavery of African people, the color
did not matter and the Greeks were using them to build their citadels
like Acropolis, surprisingly the Persians were paying workers to build
Persepolis! the reason I remember this one in particular is that it was
discovered just recently, archaeologists found some payment receipts
made of rocks if I'm not mistaken belonged to workers who participated
in building Persepolis from different nations. Democracy does not have
the same meaning as the democracy we know nowadays, it's funny how this
movie reflects the American perspective toward Middle-east.
