8
As enchanting as the best 'Harry Potter' films, this beginning of a new chapter in J.K. Rowling's wizarding world is fun, edgy and ceaselessly fascinating

How do you make a 'Harry Potter' movie without Harry Potter? Before the
last of the eight films of J.K. Rowling's staggeringly popular universe
five years ago, that must have been the conundrum facing Warner
Brothers executives as they stared at the end of the line of their most
lucrative franchise. And yet thanks to Rowling herself as well as
series stalwart David Yates, there is once again new life to be found
in the world of witchcraft and wizardry that she had dreamt up in the
seven books of the boy wonder. The inspiration is one of Harry's
textbooks at Hogwarts, an essential text which served as a guide to
magical animals written by one Newt Scamander. Rowling had written it
into a companion piece in 2001, but as those who had read the 128- page
book will tell you, there is a lot more that Rowling must have had to
add to her first movie script even as an adaptation of that earlier
book.That explains why the film's narrative feels like two parallel story
lines, both of which are set in the 1920s in New York City. The first
(and the one more obviously drawn from her text) concerns the
magizoologist and former Hogwarts student's (Eddie Redmayne) arrival
with a suitcase of magical creatures in tow. He's here to do field work
for the titular book that he's writing, but no thanks to a mix- up
involving a klutzy working-class 'no-maj' (meaning 'muggle' or
ordinary, non-magical human) named Jacob Kowalski (Dan Fogler), some of
the beasts Newt keeps hidden in his suitcase – which is really a
magical device enclosing a massive nature preserve – have escaped.
Together with two comely female wizards, the struggling investigator
Porpentina Goldstein (Katherine Waterson) and her mind-reading sister
Queenie (Alison Sudol), Newt and Jacob set out to chase down these
creatures before they wreak more havoc on the city.And yet their blithe adventure could not have taken place in a more
complicated time – not only has the Magical Congress of the United
States (or MACUSA in short) set out strict rules against the revelation
of the existence of wizards and/or the wizarding world, its
meticulously cautious Madam President (Carmen Ejojo) has outlawed the
possession of all beasts. There is perhaps good reason though – the
city is torn by a mysterious force purportedly to be that of an
Obscurus, a dark and uncontrollable power manifested by wizards who
have repressed (rather than being taught to control) their innate
powers. Rounding out the second, and much darker, story is a missing
dark wizard called Gellert Grindelward (Johnny Depp), which the opening
prologue via numerous newspaper reels informs us has gone underground
since his dark doings in Europe. It's no secret that Grindelward and by
extension, Depp, whom we see only briefly at the end of the movie, will
take up much of the acreage of the four other 'Fantastic Beasts' films
that Yates and Rowling have planned. Given how this needs to set the stage for the beginning of a new
franchise, there is understandably yards of exposition and a lot of
introductions to do within the just-over two hours it has. It also
means that, aside from its city-shaking cataclysm of a climax, this is
pretty much like an origin story, such that like the first 'Harry
Potter' movie, one gets the distinct sense that it is holding back for
bigger and hopefully even more intriguing things down the road.Not to say that this first of a quintet isn't charming in and of
itself; oh no, in fact, we are confident that Potter fans and newcomers
alike will find much to love and beguile of the rich and fascinating
fictional world that Rowling has created. Indeed, there is sheer
delight in discovering the menagerie of creatures that Newt has hidden
in his briefcase – among them a scene-stealing platypus with a penchant
for stealing shiny things, a majestic avian which changes shape and
size to fill any available space, and a tiny stick-like green insect
that can pick locks. Before things get serious, the early scenes with
Newt and his unlikely companions pop with escapist fun, not least when
he and Jacob get caught in incriminating situations by law enforcement
while pursuing their small, furry and oh-so-cute kleptomaniac around
bank vaults and jewelry stores. It is also here that we get to savour
more fully the effortlessly endearing Redmayne and Fogler, one quirkily
adorable as the shy and slightly awkward boy-man and the other an
unassuming bumbler whose wide-eyed wonder upon the world previously
hidden from his eyes channels our very own.Like how she did with Harry, Ron and Hermoine, Rowling gets a strong
character dynamic going around the four cohorts, including a budding
attraction between Newt and his Auror-turned-ally Tina as well as a
gentle romance between Jacob and Queenie. It is these characters that
anchor the busy plotting in the second hour with heartfelt emotion. Even so, the beautifully ornate production design shines through every
frame, whether a seedy underground jazz club with all manner of
peculiar (if slightly grotesque) creatures to Manhattan's old City Hall
subway station where the climax unfolds. The special effects are
equally stellar, particularly the transition from our world to that
inside the suitcase and a breathtaking scene where the Obscurus wrecks
destruction across several of New York's skyscrapers before plunging
into the City Hall station. And of course, the close-ups of the various
beasts are just as visually stunning, some scary, some cuddly, some
ethereal and some just downright goofy. Even without the appeal of
adorable young children, 'Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them' is
pure enchantment, perfectly setting the stage for a whole new chapter
of the wizarding world we've come to embrace through the 'Harry Potter'
films. To call it fantastic may be slightly hyperbolic, but you'll be
glad to know it doesn't fall too far short.
