7
Reynolds & Washington a Strong Duo

It is so very difficult to find new material when you piece together a
governmental conspiracy movie. Safe House is able to do it to a point.
The greatest success of this movie is the usage of modern film
techniques. Too often the bulging budget and ability to edit in effects
makes action/thriller movies extremely unrealistic. Safe House does the
opposite. It takes all of these techniques and uses them to make the
movie raw and real.The actors were hand-picked perfectly for their roles. Ryan Reynolds is
the actor you have to use when you want to put a likable, relatable
family man in a difficult situation. As a CIA operative caught up in
something far outside his experience, he fits in perfectly. As for
Denzel Washington, there is little that he can't do. For the unique
character of Tobin Frost, there is no better man to fill the role.
Together they form a storyline that merely needs to be able to stand on
its own two feet. The storyline does stand on its own. That being said,
it is the weakest part of the movie. The twists have all been seen
before. This movie doesn't offer new plot points to the old conspiracy
theory movie. It merely adds new characters. The new characters are
great, but it is not enough. In order for the movie to be great, it
needed to give something new to the story.I must say that the end was beautiful. Without giving anything away, it
was gracefully preformed. It wrapped up the loose ends that too many
other movies simply leave hanging. It adds a whole other dimension to
Ryan Reynolds' character. It will, without a doubt, leave you wanting
more but somehow completely satisfied.Safe House is worth a trip to the theatre. With thrillers such as this
one, the action is better on the big screen. Between the action and the
actors, you will not be disappointed. Next to Liam Neeson's The Grey,
this is one of the best action movies so far this year. The thing is,
it could have been even better. Too bad.reillyreviews.wordpress.com
