7
Yimou's Visual Brilliance Transcends Story

Spoilers Ahead:First, yes, I am a Zhang Yimou fan, so I have a glaring bias for the
movie. Most of Yimou's movies are socialistic allegories attacking
Feudal or capitalistic societies (Ju Dou, Raise The Red Lantern). While
this is present here, it is much more understated than usual. There are
just a few scenes: the woman general sizes up Damon asking him why he
fights. Damon answers that war is a good way to eat and get a few coins
along the way. He has fought for many flags, he really could not give a
crap. This is where she walks away from him with disgust,"We are not so
alike after all." She dares him to do the bungee jump attack, with a
spear off of the parapets, Damon is not big on her favorite
word,"Trust." She explains this is why they fight together, they trust
each other. Damon agrees with her earlier assessment,"You were right,
we are different, I trust nobody." This is the motif, concealed deep
inside of the narrative, the existential contrast of the mercenary duo
of Damon and partner, there to steal some black powder versus the
nationalistic Chinese who are protecting the Imperial City from the
onslaught of these reptile looking nasties. The movie really is Damon
being converted from worshiping money to learning to care for something
else besides his personal financial benefit.Yes, detractors, it is not Raise The Red Lantern, or even Ju Dou, but
is miles above that dreadful remake of Blood Simple, the Noodle Shop
travesty. First, the movie is quite short, about ninety minutes: it
moves from the first frame, I was not bored for a single minute.
Yimou's visual brilliance is on full display: from the multi-color
armor, the stunning weapons and battle tactics: the beauty of the five
thousand year old Chinese culture is on full display. The point of
using a Caucasian, Damon, in the lead, is its synthesis with the
thematic core: a refutation of the Occident's worship of money as the
only value upon which to center your society. The movie is best enjoyed
by focusing upon Damon and his reaction to the Chinese culture. He,
slowly, comes to move away from his mercenary value system to fighting
for others. To his partner's great irritation, he takes the entire
movie, but he joins with them abandoning his crooked friends. Yimou
seems to know that this will be a largely Western audience so his
scathing assaults upon profit and landed elites here are reduced to
this small, basic attack upon Money: People or Money, which do you
choose? Those of you who disliked his more pedantic, socialistic movies
(Curse Of The Golden Flower), will enjoy this much more.Yimou is aware of Damon's acting problems, his character is limited to
short phrases and sentences. Yimou wisely provides English / Chinese
translations either through subtitles or other characters. As a
philosopher, if you asked me the purpose of this allegory, it is of a
piece with all his movies but embedded in a quickly paced action movie:
Damon is shown an utterly alien way of life not predicated upon ripping
people off and running away. The action comes with plenty of pop outs,
they caused popcorn explosions, in my living room. Do not going into
this expecting empirical reality; there are moments of pure fantasy.
The strongest positive is the pacing, followed by Yimou's usual visual
stunning brilliance. Yes, obviously, it was congruent with my value
system so I adored his message, as usual. As a pure action movie, there
are great effects, surprises and good writing. The creatures turn out
to be far more intelligent then the Chinese thought they were. Secrets
about the creatures are discovered and the movie builds to a final
showdown in the Imperial City, no less. The Chinese were humble enough
to show their emperor cowering behind his throne when the beasties go
all 'end of the world' upon his Golden Palace. China's 5000 year old
ancient culture is always a joy to behold. Yimou has always been a
gateway, to Western eyes, to see a world shut off from us. Is this his
best movie? No way, not by a mile. Commensurately better then the
Noodle Shop or Golden Flower's pedantic pushing of Communistic
anti-feudalism, it is well worth watching.As to owning, I advise you watch it before you buy it. The exception is
fellow Yimou fans, go ahead, it is way above his earlier lesser movies.
Bear in mind, I even own Shanghai Triad, I love the man's work and
consider him to be a genius. Worthy Effort. Q.E.D."Know Thyself, Know Thy Enemy: A Thousand Battles, A Thousand
Victories." Sun Tzu
