3
The third, and worst, of the Langdon-Hanks-Brown-Howard films

Personally didn't mind 'The Da Vinci Code', though it was a long way
from great, but 'Angels and Demons' while with some good things was
lacklustre. Unfortunately, the latest film 'Inferno' is no better, in
fact all the mistakes made in 'Angels and Demons' are made here and
made bigger while a few more grievous ones are made.There is not much that saves 'Inferno', but it does have to be said
that the locations are truly stunning with some nice location work that
makes one wish that they belonged in a much better film. Hans Zimmer's
music score is haunting once again and accentuates the thriller mood of
the film, though it was orchestrated more cleverly before. Tom Hanks
again gives his role an easy-going charm and effortless authority,
there is not much personal at stake seemingly here for Langdon but
Hanks is always watchable and gives his all.However, that is pretty much all that was good. As has been said
already, the worst thing about 'Inferno' is the ending (which, also
agreed, was the thing that elevated the book to a greater level, the
ending in the book was that good), rendering everything seen in the
film and all the events in the book useless in an ending that felt like
a tacked on cop-out that reeked of production/studio interference. This
said, the ending doesn't single-handedly bring 'Inferno' down, as there
are other just as glaring problems too.Ron Howard's direction is a mess, it is hard to believe that somebody
who has a Best Director Oscar and has done some very good to
outstanding work directed in a way that suggested more first time
director learning (or more like struggling to learn) the ropes, finding
urgency is a constant struggle and then he paces things in a rushed and
erratic way.Despite the stunning locations and nice location work, 'Inferno' is
cheapened by some haphazard editing and over-reliance on high-speed
tracking shots that suggest a cinematographer drunk on the job and have
a dizzying effect, actually felt rather woozy and sick after seeing the
film. Cast-wise, only Hanks rises above his material. Felicity Jones
has a very underwritten character with little backstory and incomplete
motivations and it shows in delivery and range lacking in expression, a
very going-through-the-motions performance. The rest of the cast either
overact or are wasted in caricature roles, with no sense of threat
present.Further disadvantaging them are a very corny script, with countless
lines of clunky and awkward dialogue that sounds confused,
overly-condensed and disorganised. Even worse a story that just doesn't
compel, with its over-explanatory at times, but even more frequently
convoluted, nature, and pacing that is so jumpy but at the same time so
pedestrian that there is the sense that the writers and Howard had no
idea what to do with the material and when and how to bring urgency
into it.On the whole, three or so good things but the rest makes Langdon's hair
significantly less floppy in comparison. 3/10 Bethany Cox
