3
This movie is really NOT good!  Here's why.

It's so frustrating when so many people like and praise a movie that
really doesn't deserve it. The Martian is such a movie. I had such high
hopes for it after all the hype, and after reading reviews by smart
critics I usually agree with, but it was such a disappointment. Here's
why: Plausibility. Just like Gravity, there are so many non-sensical
depictions of the physics of space travel, it makes my head hurt, and
I'm not even a physicist. The characters and their actions are pretty
implausible too, starting with Damon's chipper attitude about being
left alone on a planet 100 million miles from Earth, but certainly not
ending there. After realizing he is alone and will be for so long that
he will run out of food, he gets the brilliant idea to try to grow his
own, which we are supposed to take as a mark of his plucky brilliance.
But he's a botanist! What would a botanist be doing on a space mission
*except* studying how things grow? And then when an accident causes all
his potato plants to die, the brains at NASA (who can't believe he
figured a way to grow potatoes in the first place) instantly conclude
(and tell us) that since the accident froze all the bacteria in the
soil, he won't be able to grow any more. Why not? He still has potatoes
to eat, and he still, presumably, shits occasionally, so he has all the
ingredients he used the first time. Ugh! My brain hurts! Writing. The script seems written more by market researchers than a
screenwriter. Corny little one-liners ("My balls are frozen!") appeal
to the lowest common denominator in the audience, and the relentlessly
happy tone makes being stranded on Mars seem like a big party, complete
with disco music (literally). And the dialog!! There's a moment when
Jeff Daniels, the head of NASA (whom it is hard to imagine has ever
ever taken a science class or piloted anything) talks to the heads of
the Chinese Space agency who offer (presumedly--we only hear his end of
the conversation) to lend one of their ships to the rescue effort. He
says, "Mmm Hmm. Okay. I see. Thank you." (That's what a discussion
about loaning spacecraft between two space agencies sounds like.) Then
he hangs up the phone, clenches his fists, and says, "Yes!" It's like
Homer Simpson finding out there is still one donut left. That someone
wrote that line is astounding. That the director and actor saw fit to
actually shoot it is bewildering. That it survived the editing process
and made it into the final cut--well, there should be an investigation. Pacing. It's a movie about being stranded on Mars for months and
months. Why does it feel like a comedy by Woody Allen or Edgar Wright?
There is never a pause, never a prolonged quiet moment that might begin
to capture something of the unbelievable space and loneliness this
movie is supposed to be about. Instead, it is a constant rapid fire of
dialog and action. Even the scenes where he is communicating with Earth
via text happens faster than I usually get with my iPhone and 4G. (NASA
technicians mention, at one point, that there is a 25 minute delay
between all communications, but the filmmakers hope we forget this two
minutes later when all the subsequent conversations happen instantly).
Then there is the rest of the crew and their additional unplanned two
years of extra time stuck in the spaceship, going all the way BACK to
Mars to pick up what they left there. If I have to run back home to get
something I forgot, the trip always seems infuriatingly long. But not
these cheery space travelers! Another two years in space! No problem!
And it takes only two minutes of screen time. Piece of cake! AGH! What a frustrating experience. If you want a sugar-coated popcorn
movie that will make you think that if being on stranded on Mars isn't
really so bad, why complain about our petty little problems here on
Earth? then this movie might be for you. It does for being stranded in
space what The Shawshank Redemption does for being in prison. It tries
to tell us that it's really not THAT bad after all. It's such a lie,
and such a disappointment, all the more so because there are so many
serious issues and exciting psychological and scientific aspects about
space that could have been explored here.
