8
A Remake that exceeds the original.

I saw this movie at an advanced screening of what I thought was a
restoration of the original movie. Instead, I got treated to movie that
I didn't even know was being released. The Maniac remake is a really
good movie and better than its predecessor, which was more notable for
its Tom Savini gore effects and unconventional leading man than for
actually being a good movie.This flick, like the previous Maniac, dispels the idea that psychopaths
are cool or bad ass. Here, Frank (Elijah Wood) is a weirdo loner that
spends his days restoring antique mannequins and his nights stalking,
murdering, and scalping beautiful young women. His grip on reality is
so fragile that he has to chug anti-psychotics just to keep his
hallucinations under control. Then he meets a pretty young French girl
that actually seems to like him. Instead of offering redemption, the
burgeoning relationship only makes him more unstable.The murders are bloody and brilliantly shot and they're made
dramatically more by disturbing the film's central gimmick, almost the
entire movie is presented from the killer's POV.The new Maniac does a solid job of capturing the grind-house spirit of
the original film. There's plenty of sick humor, sex, and gore all well
captured by director Frank Khalfoun. He also partnered with Alaxander
Aja (High Tension, The Hill Have Eyes), a co-writer and producer, on
the disposable P2 which sucked despite, not because of him. Then he
made the superior crime flick Wrong Turn at Tahoe. Now, after watching
Maniac, I have to say he is officially a director to keep an eye on.
Elijah Wood also does great work as Frank, although I admit it took me
a little while to get used to the idea of the stoner dork from Wilfred
as a murderer. He definitely won me over by the end, though.There are minor problems here and there, like the way the whole city is
always completely deserted when Frank is stalking a victim. Still, this
is a great little movie, very violent, and if you're a gore hound
that's also interested in the psychology of a killer, you should watch
this immediately.
