1
I don't even think this can be spoiled...

I thought it would only be fair giving this 1 star, even though it's
maybe - at BEST - a 4, because this is definitely not worth 8.
GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY was a shot I chose to try in god knows how long
since I've been to the cinema. This is just another load of Hollywood
trash. I had the impression it was innovative, considering the
Guardians being pulled out from the bottom of the pile and the whole
outlaw thing... but I was wrong...IN THE BEGINNING, what's-his-name is on Earth and it is APPARENTLY '88.
The kid's mother dies. OK. Is this meant to be emotional despite the
fact I have no attachment to any of these characters yet? OH WOW IT'S
THE FUTURE NOW!! I'm sorry; his mother dies, he goes outside and then
he gets abducted? What is this supposed to signify? Not to mention it's
(obviously) unbelievably and strangely timed, but this is probably an
attempt at giving some depth to the main character, but really doesn't
do ANYTHING for the major plot of the entire film.The rest of the film was just a bunch of underdogs coming together
because they end up in the same space prison (because what happens when
you're arrested together is you share a block, not to mention gender is
no issue here). Then they fall into this orb situation. What is it?
It.. it is this orb.. and it is powerful.. a bit like the cube or
something. There was little development in the story at all really, a
few changes in direction but no real twists or anything surprising. I
don't even know, I was almost asleep half the time. I was constantly
checking my watch to see when it was over.So we have hideous CGI here. Ridiculously unprofessional, but I guess
I'm not in with the CGI in blockbusters. They have this obnoxious claim
to fame with technology it seems; having the ability to do these things
doesn't make it cool, it just looks like a video game. Another thing,
visually, was the designs. It was just so typical of the action/sci-fi
genre in the technology and whatnot, and the characters... very much in
the same boat but more-so thrown together effortlessly.Then after that its all EXPLOSIONS - SPEEDING - ADVERTISING - HITTING!
In between there's a conceited amount of one liners that made me
cringe. The best kind. And in the end we have some false suspense
because we know everything is going to be okay.OVERALL: >The comedy was... horrid... >The story was simple. >The
characters were lacking in... everything really. -The cinematography
didn't even involve cameras. >The soundtrack was a bunch of pop
classics chucked together. So what was good about it? The ACTION!!!1111
Wait, no... >The action was too much, unnecessary and clearly there to
fill in time. Main reason I even saw this was I received an invitation from some
mates. I think I'll try go back to sticking to films with a point. The
only point of this was to brainwash and make big bucks.
