1
A Stinking Pile From Start to Finish

Where do I begin? The very first scene, with Reece Witherspoon crying
in the mirror because she's 40 is the perfect metaphor for this movie.
It's the story about a shallow family who bring 3 shallow men into
their home, and nothing changes. Nothing is better. Nothing is worse.At the beginning of the movie, Reece's character is separated from her
husband. They're getting a divorce, but he plans to move to L.A. to be
near the kids. By the end of the movie, he lives in L.A. to be near the
kids, and they're still getting a divorce.At the beginning of the movie, the 3 pointless men are trying to get
their movie made in L.A. By the end of the movie, they're still trying
to get it made.Between the beginning and the end of the movie, there are lots of
scenes of white people, sitting around a table, eating food and
drinking wine ... and laughing a lot. I mean, really. They laugh a lot.
About what?, you may ask. I don't know. There's music playing over the
conversations. Okay. The main conflict? I'm still scratching my head trying to figure
out what it was. I know there was a scene where Reece invites her
boy-fling out to dinner the next night, and he tells her that he
already has plans (a meeting with a producer to get funds for his
movie), but he'll make it to her little dinner with her friends. Where,
by the way, they sit around the table, drinking wine, eating, and
laughing a lot. Except Reece, who is sighing and staring at the empty
chair beside her ... or at her phone, where she's able to read
up-to-the-minute text updates from boy-fling. "Hey, they just ordered
more rounds." "Hey, sorry, this is going longer than expected." ... And
the next morning, she's just so devastated that he didn't break away
from his meeting with a Hollywood producer to attend her little
laughing soiree that she just has to tearfully end it.Apparently, there are also no people of color in L.A.. I was really
surprised. I thought there would be some Latinos in the background,
maybe a black person at the restaurant. No. No POCs. Except one scene
in which a black guy brings the 3 bros a pizza and doesn't get tipped.
Go figure. The writing was terrible. The acting was so flat and uninspiring that
I'm pretty sure someone's career will be ended by this movie. And in
the end, I didn't even get to see any resolution to a story. The only scene I could relate to was Reece crying in the mirror at the
beginning. I kind of wanted to do that myself.
