9
They're back... and its GOOOOD.

MONSTERS UNIVERSITY is a prequel to MONSTERS INC., directed by Dan
Scanlon. The characters include the voices of Billy Crystal, John
Goodman, Hellen Mirren.The film goes back to where Mike Wazowski and James P. Sullivan were
before they were buddies and in Monsters Inc. It shows how the two of
them were in university, showing the relationship between them which
led up to the two of them becoming the best of friends.Alright, so MIKE AND SULLY ARE BAACKK!!! Well, thats what every kid or
adult that was associated with the enjoyment of Monsters Inc should
say. Okay, so it's been 12 years since we saw these two on-screen,
providing us with animated humor, and now they're back again, to show
us how they were in University. The teaser trailer was extremely funny
as it showed a prank played on Mike by Sully, and it gave a short
look-in into the sort of relationship we would be seeing. Soon enough,
the trailer came out and boy did it get people hooked. Finally, I was
able to catch a premiere screening of the film, to my advantage, and IT
WAS GREAT.So let's start talking about the film, not necessarily the trailers.
Who are we kidding, at first when we heard that Monsters University was
coming, that a sequel was coming to the classic Monsters Inc, we gave
up hope, saying that no one could make it better than the first one.
But Dan Scanlon challenged that, and the first teaser proved it. And I
think that the movie does it as well- kinda. So, Monsters University
isn't AS good as Monsters Inc, but it does come second in line. It
includes Mike and Sully in an underdog team, but throughout the film,
you can't help and laugh out at the jokes, and smile at the fact that
the sequel is finally out.Monsters University is GREAT. It has two parts and its all happy and
fun. I, honestly, liked the way they showed the chemistry developing
between Mike and Sully. You can actually feel it, and even though its
animation, it feels real. This one isn't quite sad, like how Inc was.
Inc ended in a sad tune, at the fact that Boo was gone, but this one
ends at the beginning of Inc. I loved the way it ended. The line that
Mike uses just makes you go like, 'YEAH! Thats what I'm talking about!'
Honestly, I'm not gonna say any more, because I don't wanna spoil
anything for anyone.In the end, Monsters University is great fun. Pixar has done it again,
the director has managed to do it. I don't think that there is gonna be
another part to the franchise, which kinda dulls me, but at the end of
Monsters University it makes you wanna see more, which you will only
get by watching Inc, since its the continuation. Go watch Monsters
University, with anyone to be honest. I guarantee you an extremely fun
ride that these two will give you.MONSTERS UNIVERSITY- 9.5/10
