1
One of the worst movies i've seen in a long time

Ahhh where to start. I usually don't write reviews. But yesterday's
disappointment in watching this had to be expressed either through
punching an anvil, or writing this review. But i need my hands this
week so I'm going to write a review.I am a fan of transformers, i loved the cartoon series and the first
and second blockbuster hit. I saw quite a substantial amount of plot
holes in the third installation and I knew it was going to go downhill
from there. I had hopes that the age of extinction would clear some of
the plot holes i saw from the dark of the moon, and after seeing the
movie trailers I became somewhat excited and felt all warm inside.I brought my two boys with me, bought some overpriced pop-corns and
sugar drinks to stimulate my mind so that my brain could focus and
absorb the new concept of the story, hoping to satisfy my hunger for
unanswered questions that left my joy decimated at the last series.I like Walhberg during action scenes, but not when he starts making
lame dialogues. And those lame dialogues deviate from being a bit
funny, to just stab me in my thighs, depending on who wrote the script.
Lame dialogues pervaded the whole friggen movie! There are countless, pointless, perpetually boring ass things that
prevented the story, or just the movie as a whole from being
appreciated. The characters were annoying, namely Lucas, Tessa and that
friggen Shane who is nothing but a disrespectful little sh*t to
Walhberg and exhibited this attitude throughout until third quarter of
the movie. I'm a dad alright, and I just wanted to punch him the f**k
out! And Walhberg should've done the same, what the hell? Few good
actors, but the characters were weak. Every time i thought that the movie was trying to make people laugh, I
look around the entire cinema and see people staring at the screen, not
laughing. I look at my boys and they're not laughing, and they're the
type that laugh at anything that moves. I'm not laughing because my
mind is struggling trying to keep that hope alive while at the same
time enduring the thought of another ominous outcome, "when is this
going to end?", "stop doing stupid things", "stop trying to make me
laugh", "just stop talking", "OMG what am I doing here?"I finish the giant popcorn and my big tub of sugar drink after an hour.
I thought that if i just go out for a smoke, maybe i'll be able to
appreciate the rest of the movie because my mind will be refreshed.
I'll take my time, maybe say hi to that nice ticket collector and make
small talk. That's 10 minutes to recuperate. It couldn't be that bad.I get back to my seat. Nothing changes... Every new main event that was introduced in the movie was not properly
explained in the end. In other words, it just came out of nowhere and
went nowhere. This just piled up leaving me with more and more
questions. It seems as if plots were inserted in holes and the viewer
was left to create his own resolution of it. The story is incongruently
incoherent. Why after all this time, can't Bumblebee talk? With all the autonomous
robotic, high alien-technologically advanced race systems that are
available that they can't rectify his voice box?? I wanted to see more
of the dinobots. And why were they in the... never mind, no spoilers.Yes most of the action scenes were great, but come on, don't make it
lame by adding something that doesn't belong there, like another
horrific comment, phrase or something that isn't funny. It destroys the
entertainment. In fact, just don't even talk during the action scenes
please!Graphics are awesome. That's the only thing I appreciate. So unfortunately i left disappointed once again. More than
disappointed, irritated and frustrated. I asked my boys what they
thought, they said "ummm... awesome?" as if that definition has lost
it's meaning and they weren't entirely sure how to make me feel better.
I wanted to research on the writers and directors who created this
movie to try and figure out how they defiled a great science fiction
theme, but I couldn't give a cross-bun anymore. I'll let it roll this
time. I feeling a bit better now.In the end i figure this movie suits those who don't care too much
about story lines and great characters and dialogues. Mainly those who
like to see giant robots fight. but the movie is rated for matured
audiences and robot fights only took place during half the movie. So
then I question what are the creators of this film trying to achieve?
Use the name for profit and create something primarily for
entertainment purposes. But today's audience are rational thinkers who
want more than just action scenes and loud explosions. So...
