3
Below average

There are inevitable predictabilities in all films. However this one
let me down because as soon as I saw the "kill switch", which is a very
complicated device to assemble on your ceiling, and the girl must have
had professional help installing it, as soon as I saw it while they
tested it, I knew instantly that someone would die from it. Then I
thought there was no reason for the device to be assembled so that it
can kill a person simply passing in front of the mirror at the wrong
time. The device could simply be adjusted to swing higher, simple
safety precautions. This is so basic that the script fails badly,
considering the kill-switch is the largest "twist" of the film.The sister had many years to prepare the experiment, in full knowledge
that all sorts of crazy things and hallucinations take place when you
are around the mirror. Still, she appears to fail (absurdly) in another
two areas.Firstly she has invited her shaken brother to the experiment area which
she has meticulously thought of and has setup, however she has not
prepared him at all, he really has no idea what this is all about. So
he is startled and spends most of the time on camera being completely
useless or even contradictory. Might as well have stayed at home.In addition she makes no effort, except in just one scene, to "stay
together". They both roam around the house as if on a picnic making no
effort to protect themselves against the hallucinations which they had
experienced before as children and should know by now or be prepared at
least with an exit strategy. Which was kind of hinted in one scene,
"the influence stops at 30 yards", well then dumb-ass stay farther than
30 yards. Doh! The girl has lost her mother and her father and has seen
her brother institutionalised because of the mirror. She has researched
dozens of victims through the years all dieing gruesome deaths and
clearly suffering hallucinations. Yet she displays a cocky attitude
walking around the house carelessly like a botanist observing his
plants!The few scenes that we see of their parents are also absurd. Both
behave illogically with ridiculous dialogues such as the "woman in the
office", the "voices", their reactions to the dog's behaviour, the
husband who appears to be from Mars... If you see a woman suddenly
materialising in front of you I doubt you will simply brush it aside
and go eat your corn flakes.The general idea of the malevolent mirror is sound and its exploitation
could have been done so much better. The author has a free hand, like
in Harry Potter, to create any situation he wishes. The mirror is
magical and can create any situation imaginable. Those situations
should have been engineered to lead the actors inexorably to their
destruction but without having them acting absurdly.The whole story can be summarised "magic mirror kills people around
it". That's about it.
