1
Murder, hate and boredom - what's not to like?

I know there is a law against talking about internal logic with regard
to QT-movies. But I'm quite a bit fed up with sloppy, dyslexic screen
writing and I'm feeling kind of outlawish, so here I go: Initially
Schultz (Christoph Waltz) asks for Django's help, because Django is an
acquaintance of three fugitives, the bounty hunter Schultz is after. A
"Dead or Alive"-handbill with its sketchy description and drawing is
not very reliable and shooting the wrong guy can easily happen and it
will just as easily get yourself hanged. Therefore the recruiting of
Django does make perfect sense. Looking for another wanted man Schultz
enters the next town, where he's never been, meets him, who is now the
sheriff of this town and whom he's never seen, and kills him after a
few seconds, without even talking to him. This is the moment "Django
Unchained" stops making sense.Schultz is a cold blooded serial killer who murders people because some
sheet of paper tells him that he's got the right to do so. He is a
hypocrite, he gets mad at someone who also executes his state approved
right to kill, but with sadistic pleasure. Murder is fine as long as
the state tells you so and you do it for business, not for fun. In the
original Spaghetti Western a guy like that would have always been the
villain, many of the heroes were "Wanted Men" themselves. In "Django
Unchained" he is the only human and sympathetic figure and without any
doubt the main character. In many ways the spirit of "Django Unchained"
is the exact opposite of that found in the movies Tarantino tried to
emulate.The story of the bland eponymous Django's development from slave in
chains and rags to sharp dressed gunslinger with sunglasses is above
all ridiculous and boring. So after Schultz's exit this excessively
overlong movie becomes even more of an ordeal, although you get to see
the explosion of a queer, ugly old geezer, who really deserved to die.
He is played by QT himself and that's only something to look forward to
and no spoiler, because naturally it has little plot relevance."Django Unchained" is about hating a whole ethnic group, just like
"Inglourious Basterds", where Tarantino made sure to avoid the
impression that there could be a German (a "Nazi") who wasn't
devilishly evil. The nice young Zoller turns out to be a wannabe rapist
and the clever detective Landa (Waltz) turns into a monster, strangling
a helpless woman to death. After all Tarantino wanted his viewers to
enjoy the butchering of hundreds of Germans in a cinema hall. In
"Django Unchained" the murderous Schultz is the only decent white guy.
All the others are preoccupied with torturing and humiliating blacks,
so there is no need to dehumanize them any further. Will some savior
please rise and rid the world of this evil? "Django Unchained" tells the sentimental education of this savior,
Django, that ends with the exit of his teacher. Now the Hate is strong
with this one. He uses it for the righteous cause, to kill white
people. All of them. The murders of the self-righteous are always cool
and justified, right? Hypocrisy is the new religion. Tarantino is one
of its high priests, "Django Unchained" is a High Mass. Enjoy! "Once Upon a Time in the West", "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly", "Pat
Garrett & Billy the Kid" - those are masterworks. "Django Unchained" is
the work of a slave, designed to debase its audience.
