8
Hilarious, satirical and over the top

If ordinary films are like novels, this one is like an exquisite
collection of short stories. The film is divided into six segments,
each with its own plot and character development. Director Damian
Szifron is like a modern-day Guy de Maupassant, telling each story with
meticulous accuracy, carefully measuring out each twist, detail and
conversation. The segments are hilarious and over the top, but at the same time
satirical and somehow realistic - the extreme events could happen to
any of us. That's why this is such a great film: its shows the darkest
side of human nature and of Argentinian society, but in such a way that
it makes you smile. The director claims the theme connecting the stories is 'the joy of
losing control'. It's also the tag-line of the movie: 'We can all lose
control'. Indeed, most of the segments are about losing control,
although one is about keeping everything under control in a situation
that can easily spin out of control. In any case, all segments are
about individuals solving a conflict in an extreme way. In most
segments, the solution is extremely violent or deadly. Although the trailer splashes out the name 'Almodovar' because Pedro
and his brother produced the film, the style is by no means
Almodovar-like. Szafron uses a sophisticated style, very different from
the extreme cinematography we know from Almodovar. 'Relatos Salvajes'
also surprises with original cinematographic gimmicks. In one scene,
the camera is positioned in an overhead bin of an airplane. In another,
in the interior of an ATM, with the image filmed through the touch
screen. The film is carefully constructed, with lots of little details.
In one segment, about a man fighting the parking ticket bureaucracy in
his city, we see the conspicuous towing trucks constantly moving
through the image, as a sort of evil force. Once again, an Argentinian film maker pleasantly surprises moviegoers
around the world. Maybe such wonderful, sharp-edged movies can only
flourish in a country like Argentina, where life is a bit of a struggle
and not everything is taken for granted
