8
A Delightful Horror Treat!

When the trailer boasted the producers of "Paranormal Activity" and
"Insidious" the idea of what tone this film would be reared it's head.
Based around a series of jump scare sequences and slow character
sections in order to attempt to make you feel for the characters while
easing the tension of the situation. It's a tired formula that is
becoming all the more clichéd and repetitive. However Sinister manages
to find ways to break free of these leashes that the horror genre is
becoming tied down to.Ethan Hawk stars as a true crime writer known as Ellison who moves into
a new home with his wife, Tracy (Juliet Rylance) and his two children,
Ashley (Clare Foley) and Trevor (Michael Hall D'Addario) near the site
of a local crime in order to get inspiration for his novel. During an
exploration of the house Ellison stumbles across a box with an 8mm
camera and a selection of films, which upon viewing exploit gruesome
murders. This thrusts area hero into a terrifying mystery as he tries
to piece together the meaning behind it all.With horror films these days we come to know what to expect. We're
given characters that we can't connect with merely there to service the
plot and an un-original story that we've seen time and time again
bringing the audience no sense of engagement. But mostly we're never
scared beyond the mere technique of a jump scare. With director Scott
Derrickson we are shown again how mainstream horror can creep on us
with effective imagery and suggestion. The scares here can be portrayed
by just using obscure camera angles and bizarre images that unsettle
us. Derrickson understands though that using loud bands and noises to
jolt the audience can be done effectively. By backing up these moments
with his strong imagery he uses it as a tactic to implant these
horrific moments in our minds.The highlight however is the use of the 8mm films. Sinister is in love
with the idea of film, from celluloid to digital as not only are we
treated to disturbing super 8 films but Ellison boasts are large
collection of VHS tapes of his old achievements. It's a nice, simple
touch that film fans will appreciate. These 8mm films though boast some
truly graphic sequences, one particularly involving a garden tool.
Backed with a moody soundtrack by Christopher Young who's worked on
other horror gems such as "Drag Me To Hell" and "The Exorcism of Emily
Rose". It feels more of an ambiance piece rather than a fully diegetic
score merging together a series of dark and effective sounds building
the feeling of dread constantly throughout.Written by Derrickson himself and writer C. Robert Cargill the
screenplay manages for the most part to push past the bland formula
we've grown to endure with horror films of late. The film brings an
intriguing plot that manages to put you in the position of Ellison's
character, uncovering the plot and mystery when he does. There are
scenes in which are hero re-visits the 8mm films and discovers new
elements to them which adds a new depth to the story. The film feels
relentless, rarely taking time to slow down and constantly feeling as
though it's propelling towards something. However elements of the
script are where the weaker parts of the film shine. While managing to
bring interesting uses of horror and tension the film often retreads
over clichéd ground as though it's trying to keep a warm attitude
towards mainstream audiences. These are the times when the film feels
as though it may lose focus but always manages to pick up its feet
again. Alongside this we have some underused side and poorly written
characters such as a police deputy who doesn't feel natural within the
whole scale of things.Sinister may tread over worn ground by it still manages to feel fresh
and revitalizing in an age where we've conformed to the degrading
standards of horror. It embraces the roots of horror and film in
general making it much more than a homage and a feeling of an original
yet genuinely terrifying story. Hawk manages to carry the emotional
tangent of the narrative while the other characters are merely
serviceable. It's not groundbreaking but for a mainstream horror film
it takes some inventive and daring steps creating a terrifying,
disturbing yet absorbing piece of cinema.4/5 Stars.
