10
Once again, the critics get it wrong.  This is a superb film!

A great deal of prejudice (yes, there really is no other honest word
for it) kept me from seeing this movie until recently. Firstly, I only moderately liked the original 1982 Annie, so the
thought of remake had little appeal. Secondly, the casting seemed off.
Sure, these are great actors worth seeing in any other production, but
Annie is pretty defined by her milk-pale skin dotted with freckles, and
as-hopelessly-white-as-Bret-Dennen red hair. Not to mention Daddy
Warbucks defined the stereotype of a rich white republican businessman.
What next? An Irish Nick Fury, a Native American play Bruce Lee in a
bio-pic, or Jackie Chan cast as Zorro?Obviously, it seemed, this was a case of art being sacrificed on the
altar political correctness, or some other some other nefarious motive.
Negative reviews from critics affirmed my doubts, and I felt justified
in avoiding this movie. In retrospect: how small of me.When finally seeing this production on Blu-Ray, I was amazed.
Quvenzhane and Jamie are fantastic, the supporting cast also put in
great performances. The tired 1930's script has been updated to be more
realistic and believable. This story draws you in and makes you care.
Yes, this feel-good family fare with a predictable happy ending, but it
is executed flawlessly. Humor and drama is blended well, and it has the
tone of future classic. You will want this in your library, because you
will not mind experiencing it again as you show it for others that were
also duped by the critics and doubters.Critiques: It would have been nice to hear more of Mr. Foxx's amazing
voice talents (we only get a small sample). Producer Will Smith made
some good calls in casting (and avoiding another After Earth disaster),
but should have done more to distance himself from the film. Maybe to
the extent of asking DreamWorks or Disney to distribute under their
label, which would have assured greater success at the box office.
