10
Enemy proves Villeneuve's versatility by telling a mind-boggling mystery with stunning twists and turns.

With last year's successful thriller Prisoners, Canadian director Denis
Villeneuve made a name for himself among American moviegoers. A year
later, with the release of Enemy, the impact Villeneuve has left
doesn't seem to be anything that will die down any time soon. Reteaming
with his Prisoners star Jake Gyllenhaal, Enemy proves Villeneuve's
versatility by telling a mind-boggling mystery with stunning twists and
turns, deep hidden meanings, and a tremendous double performance by
Gyllenhaal.Adam Bell is a disheveled, run-of-the-mill everyman living in Toronto,
Canada, where he works as a college history professor. When he's not
teaching at the university, he's sitting around his high-rise apartment
in a bored manner or making love with his girlfriend, Mary. Life for
Adam is, for a lack of a better word, boring.Things change when a colleague recommends a movie to Adam. Not a fan of
watching movies, Adam very reluctantly agrees to rent the film from a
local video store. Initially unimpressed with the movie, Adam notices
something odd within the movie: one of the actors, by the name of
Anthony St. Claire, looks like him. Identical to him, even. This
strange discovery fuels an obsession within Adam. An obsession that
faces him with situations he would have never expected.Adapted from Jose Saramago's The Double, Javier Gullon's screenplay
leaves the true meaning behind these events up to the viewer. Although
there are very subtle hints to the general idea of the story, there is
no clear cut answer to the many twists and turns faced within the
film's 90 minute run time. What may be a story of totalitarian beliefs
to one viewer, as referenced in Adam's lecture in the beginning of the
film, may be a story of marriage in the modern era. It's amazing how
screenplays like these can have such a wide range of themes without any
of them being wrong.Despite a talented cast including Melanie Laurent, Sarah Gadon, and
Isabella Rossillini, it's Jake Gyllenhaal who steals the show.
Gyllenhaal delicately balances the introverted, resentful nature of
Adam with the loud, imposing personality of Anthony. It's even more
impressive that this performance stands as one of Gyllenhaal's finest
in his long list of great roles. Gadon gives a surprisingly great
performance, managing to say a lot with just a long glance at
Gyllenhaal. Laurent and Rossillini have smaller roles, but are
important assets to the story nonetheless.Enemy has the eerie atmosphere and the thrilling plot that Prisoners
had, but that's really their only similarities. Whereas Prisoners was
grounded in reality, Enemy is more dream-like, more surreal. This all
comes through Villeneuve's delightful directing style, featuring some
truly frightening imagery that will strike a nerve with its viewers.
However, the hypnotic nature of the film never takes away from its
storytelling, which is woefully important for a film that relies this
much on its storyline.Enemy isn't for everybody, but it's target demographic is sure to find
the film to be spellbinding and hypnotic. Villeneuve's devious
directing is sure to keep the viewer on the edge of their seat the
whole time, up until the chilling final frame before the film cuts to
the credits. Gyllenhaal holds up the entire film with his bravado
double performance, as well as the fantastic supporting cast. With all
this together, Enemy has proved to be one of 2014's earliest successes,
and it is going to prove to be a tough one to beat.
