9
Tom Hardy is arguably the most talented male actor in film today!

'THE DROP': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five)Crime-thriller about a bartender who finds himself in trouble, with
dangerous criminals, when the bar he works at, which is a 'money drop'
for local gangsters, is robbed. It's based on the short story 'Animal
Rescue' by Dennis Lehane (who also wrote such popular novels, turned
movies, as 'MYSTIC RIVER', 'GONE BABY GONE' and 'SHUTTER ISLAND').
Lehane also wrote the screenplay and Michaël R. Roskam directed the
movie. The film stars Tom Hardy, Noomi Rapace, John Ortiz, Matthias
Schoenaerts (who also starred in Roskam's 2011 crime-drama flick
'BULLHEAD') and James Gandolfini (in his last film role). I found the
movie to be really dark but extremely involving and suspenseful, at
times, as well.Hardy plays Bob Saginowski; a Brooklyn bartender who works for his
cousin Marv (Gandolfini) at a local tavern. The bar is involved in a
money laundering scheme, run by local gangsters, and used as a 'money
drop' for funneling dirty cash. When it's robbed, apparently by small
time crooks, Bob and Marv find themselves under a lot of pressure (from
the crime bosses) to find out who did it. At the same time Bob rescues
a dog, that was beaten and left for dead in someone's trash can, and
starts a relationship with the woman, Nadia (Rapace), who helps him. A
detective (Ortiz), who goes to the same (closing) catholic church as
Bob, is investigating the robbery.The movie, like everything based on Dennis Lehane's writings, is pretty
dark. Hardy is outstanding once again; he's arguably the most talented
male actor in film today. He's also the relatable heart of the film but
even his character has a dark twist. All of the performances are good
though and it's nice to see Gandolfini doing what he does best, one
last time, as well. The directing is superb and the screenplay is, of
course, brilliant. I think the movie is exactly what most viewers are
expecting it to be, that are familiar with Lehane's work, and Hardy
makes it even that much more memorable and classic!Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://youtu.be/Xz0GNkin4cw
