6
Thurgood 101

Greetings again from the darkness. The question must be asked: is the
movie worthy of the man? The man was the first attorney for the NAACP.
He won 29 of the 32 cases he argued in front of the U.S. Supreme Court,
including the ground-breaking 1954 Brown v. Board of Education
(separate but equal public education). This man was a trailblazer for
Civil Rights, and in 1967 became the first African- American Supreme
Court Justice. This man was, of course, Thurgood Marshall … a man who
unquestionably deserves not just a movie, but a really good and
important one.Chadwick Boseman has taken on film versions of such icons as Jackie
Robinson in 42 and James Brown in GET ON UP, so he likely jumped at the
chance to play the revered figure, Thurgood Marshall. Mr. Boseman has
true movie star screen presence, and supplies the young Mr. Marshall
with a self-assured swagger that accompanies a brilliant legal mind – a
mind that refused to be ignored during a time it was desperately
needed. Lest he be labeled a superhero, the film does portray Marshall
smoking and drinking, while also hinting at his carousing. The common
flaws of a great man.It's 1941 and the young (33 years old) Marshall is the lone NAACP
attorney, so he spends his time ping-ponging around the country
fighting for fair trials for those African-Americans accused simply
because they aren't white. He works only for "innocent" people and his
efforts during this time were crucial to the Civil Rights movement
gaining attention and legitimacy. Most of the film centers on a case in
Connecticut (no, not the Jim Crow south) where a black man, Joseph
Spell (Sterling K Brown), is accused of sexual assault of a
"respectable" married white woman, Eleanor Strubing (Kate Hudson). If
you are reminded of the great book and film TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD, you
must know that those literary and cinematic standards are such that few
can ever hope to reach. What follows is not one of the more dramatic or tension-filled
cinematic courtroom dramas. There is simply too much levity for the
film to be classified as a historical heavyweight. That said, the man
and his story are fascinating, and though director Reginald Hudlin
chooses a deft touch rather than a sledge hammer, it's likely the wise
choice if the goal is to entertain, while also educating the masses to
Marshall's early career. Josh Gad co-stars as Marshall's co-counsel Sam
Friedman, a specialist in legal technicalities within the insurance
industry. Boseman and Gad have nice chemistry (at times it feels like a
buddy movie), and as a Jew in those times, Friedman is himself stuck in
limbo between staunch racism and acceptance by the white community. James Cromwell plays Judge Foster, yet another man caught between the
old world he has lived in his entire life and the fast-changing society
and legal system that permits him to silence Marshall, while also
forcing (somewhat) fair treatment of the accused Spell. Dan Stevens
(BEAUTY AND THE BEAST) is Loren Willis, the disgusted and disgusting
prosecutor. This character is so cartoonish that the only thing missing
is a neon necklace that flashes "racist" as he speaks. Sophia Bush has
a brief, yet important scene and Sterling K Brown (as Mr. Spell) has
the film's most heart-breaking moment as he sits on the stand and
explains why he lied. Director Reginald Hudlin seems like an odd choice for the project. He
has been working mostly in TV since back-to-back-to-back bombs
BOOMERANG (Eddie Murphy), THE LADIES MAN (Tim Meadow) and SERVING SARA
(Matthew Perry). Mr. Hudlin has experienced more success as a Producer,
having been Oscar nominated for DJANGO UNCHAINED. Here he works with
the father and son screenwriters Jacob Koskoff and Michael Koskoff. The
elder Michael is a well respected criminal attorney and legal
historian, and certainly understands the expectations that come with
offering a public look at a near- mythical figure … especially one as
revered as Thurgood Marshall.This isn't so much a movie about the icon as it is about a young man on
the path to greatness and importance (he served on the Supreme Court
from 1967-1991). The soundtrack is filled with jazz which complements
the light-hearted approach, and further distances from any semblance of
"heavy" or "historical". Director Hudlin adds a contemporary touch by
having Trayvon Martin's parents (Sybrina Fulton, Tracy Martin) appear
in a scene near the end. On the downside, multiple upshot camera angles
are designed to make his lead character look larger than life. The
truth is, Thurgood Marshall required no help in looming large.
Hopefully this mainstream approach pays off and many are introduced to
the legacy of a man who is more than worthy of this movie … and
another.
