10
One of this year's best thrillers

More visceral than Steven Soderbergh's "Traffic." SICARIO is about the
cost to pay in a drug war and its merciless brutality. Masterfully
shot, perfectly acted. This is a film that doesn't allow you to feel
comfortable. With each passing moment, it crawls its way deeper and
deeper into this world where death is its only end game.Director Denis Villenuve reteams with master cinematographer Roger
Deakins to take advantage of the desert, the weather, the landscape,
the terrain, and use them as silent supporting characters that also
serve to express the characters' inner demons. Deakins is a multiple
Oscar-nominated DP that gets better with every work and in SICARIO, you
will see that he once again experiments with even richer and newer ways
of shooting, whether it's the night vision first person view or the
angles to capture the intensity at the border, moments before weapons
are drawn, it's like enrolling in another classroom taught by Deakins
but with extra curriculums to learn. The man just knows how to leave
his competition behind.To me, what I think is impressive about Emily Blunt is that she is
beauty and strength all in one. She can express torment and conflicted
soul so effortlessly, she plays this FBI agent, Kate Macer who does
things by the book, she always holds herself and others accountable for
every detail, so when she volunteers to be a part of a black ops that
practically throws the book out the window, her idealistic views are
put to the test. And I think Emily Blunt does a nice job of executing
that. It's somewhat of a fish out of water story where Blunt's Kate
Macer knows she's being used but she wants to know what she's being
used for. Oscar winner, Benicio Del Toro has walked through this
territory before in Steven Soderbergh's "Traffic" where he played a
Tijuana police officer. In SICARIO, he plays a mysterious character,
Alejandro, he's skilled, a man of a few words, soft spoken, but highly
intense and has a sharp instinct. What has always been brilliant about
Del Toro, in all of his works including SICARIO, is that he can say
much without actually saying much at all. In the case of his character,
Alejandro, there's a certain dark pain that's magnetic about him. It's
all in the eyes. Oscar nominee Josh Brolin plays the leader of the
team, Matt Graver, he talks way too damn much but that is also a part
of his game, his game of manipulating others.I've never been to Juarez, I've heard horrible stories about that
place, and SICARIO, though it wasn't exactly filmed in Juarez, does
manage to put the fear of God in audiences' heart by showing Juarez for
what it is, there's no sugar coating, there's no hiding that it's one
of the murder capitals of the world. It's a deeply harrowing part that
will stay with you long after you've done watching the film which in
and of itself wrestles with questions of morality.SICARIO means
'hit-man,' you'll come to wonder which of those three lead characters
is the actual hit-man but ultimately, what SICARIO gives you is this
dilemma,... if somebody could finally solve the drug cartel and drug
kingpin problems for the rest of us, would you really care that they
did it by killing instead of bringing the perp to justice?
