8
Above average thriller with plenty of twists , turns and a suspenseful finale

This is a top-notch thriller about a young businessman called Adrián
Doria (Mario Casas) contracts an advocate at law (Ana Wagener) who
attempts to prove his innocence for a strange crime of his lover
(Barbara Lennie) happened at a luxury hotel , but events are about to
get even worse . Adrián is a famous businessman and also happily
married , but then his spouse to be aware his detention and treason .
Shortly after , his ordinary lawyer (Francesco Orellá) informs him
there is a witness to the killing has appeared and then things go awry
. ¨The Invisible Guest¨ contains twisted mysteries , emotion , thrills ,
action and suspense . This is a highly mysterious and cerebral thriller
, filled with plot twists , including an unexpected denouement in its
ending part . From start to finish the complicated intrigue ,
fast-paced , thrills , and suspense result to be continuous .
Hitchcock-style psychological thriller , being surprisingly good and
compellingly shot . The original as well entertaining premise is
overspread across the movie adding some brief conventional pitfalls .
The main cast is frankly good , as Mario Casas as the egoistic
businessman accused of murdering his sweetheart played by Barbara
Lennie who plays perfectly his beautiful lover . Support cast is pretty
good such as Francesc Orella , Paco Tous , David Selvas and José
Coronado as a revengeful father seeking justice . Special mention for
Ana Wagener as a cunning lawyer and playing a double role . The picture
is very well , though sometimes stagy and it has a lot of turns .
However , being very entertaining for its successive suspense . This
mystery murder was stunningly produced by various prestigious producers
: Eneko Lizarraga , Núria Valls Sofía Fábregas , Mercedes Gamero ,
Sandra Hermida , Adrián Guerra , and Mikel Lejarza , all of them have
financed a great number of successes in the recent Spanish cinema .
This interesting thriller displays a colorful and luxurious
cinematography by Xavy Giménez . Being shot on location in Vizcaya ,
País Vasco , Girona and Barcelona, Catalonia . And stirring and emotive
score by Fernando Velázquez . This recent film by Spanish
writer/director Oriol Paulo was well and professionally directed .
Oriol previously realized short movies , he wrote "The Julia eyes" and
directed the successful "The body" or ¨El Cuerpo¨ , another suspense
style similar to ¨The invisible guest¨ or ¨Contratiempo¨. It is well
worth watching and it packs several thrilling as well as suspenseful
scenes . rating : 7.5/10 , better than average ; it is a highly
mysterious movie that keeps you interested and expecting .
