7
Mara and Mendelsohn Shine.

This is another film that has been on my radar for a while and I went
into this completely blind, having seen no footage just the IMDb page
of reviews / cast list and it was fair to say I was very excited. So
why was this a disappointing film? Pro's - Both Rooney Mara and Ben Mendelsohn share the screen very while, strong
performances with an intense gaze in both their eyes. Great
performances by both of them and they really hold the film.Tara Fitzgerald and Ruby Stokes also gave strong performances with
their limited screen time. The cinematography and the score were highlights within the quiet film,
the stark look of the industrial lights where Ray works contrasting to
the vivid bright street lights where Young Una walks away.The use of flashbacks gave this film an interesting premise whilst
keeping us engaged.Finally the unflinching and confronting dialogue / setup was brilliant.
I'm a big fan of confronting films and the way they handled the story
was very good and I was pleasantly surprised through their use of
dialogue how dark this would get.Cons -The work side plot. What the hell was going on, I felt that there was
an attempt to make some sort of work side plot through Riz Ahmed's
character and Tobias Menzies'. It just wasn't right and I'm assuming it
wasn't in the original text.Speaking of Riz Ahmed he was completely wasted in this role, this
could've been given to anyone. He did what he could with the role but
it seriously could've been given to any random Joe or Bob.Indira Varma was cast in this film, peaking my interest for she is
incredible in Game of Thrones and Luther. Where was she?! I saw her
walk on cameo for two seconds, she said nothing and I was completely in
awe of her lack of presence. Why was she given such a useless role, I'm
assuming this was also a part of the work side plot that they must have
cut.Among the other cons include, many unanswered questions, the lack of
tension / emotional weight. I would've liked to of seen more of Ray's and Una's past together,
maybe more of the trial and how they actually became infatuated with
one another. The opening was odd, could've been much quicker and it gave the film a
really slow orientation making it quite slow to get into the story
itself.This film really comes into it's own the third act, the first act is
quite slow and some of it unnecessary.Overall the two leads really shine in their roles and the unflinching
dialogue set the films bleak tone even if the three act structure was
completely lop sided. The awkward side plot really was jut unnecessary
and could've been done without. Yet this film was definitely intriguing
but was a disappointment. Compliments to Mara and Mendelsohn.
