5
The Amazingly Unnecessary Spider-man

With the success of the first X-Men movie in 2000, Bryan Singer pretty
much paved the way for all the comic book movies we see today. That
included a certain super hero movie made by Sami Rami in 2002 where a
nerdy guy (Tobey Maguire) gets bitten by a radioactive spider and
inherits superhuman powers. If Singer had paved the way, then Rami
provided the icing on the cake: a faithful, smart, well-acted super
hero flick that had as much heart and sincerity packed in as it had all
those set pieces. It also lead to a superior sequel and the much
maligned, though underrated, third episode.Which brings us to what we have here: while not a beat for beat remake,
you get the same story more or less with a different love interest and
villain. Peter Parker (Andrew Garfield) sneaks into a research facility
and gets bitten by a radioactive/genetically enhanced spider. He gets
super powers and becomes Spider-Man. Meanwhile, a doctor (Rhys Ifans)
working at the same facility, is being forced to close down his
research into tissue regeneration. In desperation, he injects himself
with an untested self-generating lizard vaccine and becomes… a half
man/half lizard thing. Spider-Man is then forced into action to stop
him from spreading this contagion throughout the city of New York. Gwen
Stacy (Emma Stone) is the damsel in distress/love interest and plays a
role in trying to stop the crazed beast.First things first: this is not a bad film. It's well acted by all the
principals, has good effects, a scary and menacing villain, some nice
action sequences and web swinging effects that are generally slightly
more realistic than the Rami version. Parker is more evidently
scientific and intelligent here. Also the police's notion that
Spider-Man is a menace to the public is more clearly defined,
especially in the scene where he disarms an officer. The new idea is
that Parker can hear the movements of spiders and it's a good addition.
So where does it all go wrong? The short answer: it's just that it's
so… pointless. We had already seen the story before. There was absolutely no reason to
tell it again. This movie could easily have been Spider-Man 4 with
Andrew Garfield filling in the Spidey spandex instead of Tobey Maguire.
But Marvel – in their infinite wisdom – just chose to tell the same
story a second time. Going by that rationale, presumably Andrew
Garfield will be cast aside like a disused sock when they inevitably
choose to 'reboot' the franchise again in ten years or so. It is a
scarily unimaginative tactic and it is one they will continue to do
until there is a massive financial failure.This movie follows the same set up as the 2002 version: Parker being
picked on, getting advice from his sage-like uncle (Martin Sheen),
being bitten, getting his powers/climbing walls, and turning his back
on a situation which unfortunately has tragic consequences for a family
member. It's all a case of been there, done that. If you want to
compare it to the Rami original, then the short answer is; as good as
Andrew Garfield is, Tobey Maguire was better. Maguire filled the suit
better; on occasion, Garfield is prone to looking thin and scrawny
during several scenes. Even the suit looked better in the Rami movies.
And those earlier movies had a heart and sincerity – especially in the
relationship between Peter and his aunt and uncle that you don't see
here. Again we ask: why does this movie exist?And there are holes: there's a massive lizard running around, wreaking
havoc; yet the police are more preoccupied with pointing their guns at
Spider-Man – despite the fact that he saved a child in a (surprise,
surprise) rehashed scene set on a bridge taken from Rami's first movie.
In another part, the citizens of the city (once again - in a bit taken
from Rami's movie) unite to help Spider-Man cross the city using tower
cranes – despite the fact that there are buildings all around him.
Heck, even the villain is initially a do-gooder like Norman Osborn and
Dr. Octavius – again from the Rami movies.It also seems to pull inspiration from another super hero movie:
Christopher Nolan's Batman Begins (2005) in that it's slightly darker,
tells such a large origin story that just like Batman Begins,
Spider-Man doesn't actually show up on screen for the first hour. So if
you take two parts Batman Begins and add a touch of Rami's Spider-Man,
the result is what you have here. Additionally, the introduction of the
web shooters, while being faithful to the original comics and
emphasizing Parker's intellect, is a bit of a mixed blessing. The
notion of the web being an organic material rather than being fired
from mechanical devices actually made more sense.It's not that reboots are a bad idea, they're not. In certain
situations they can work well, provided for example, enough time has
elapsed. But there is no point in retelling the same story if the
initial release is still relatively recent. In addition, it helps if
the story wasn't covered well the first time, or it was a bad movie to
begin with. Going by this criteria, Marvel's latest cash cow is
unnecessary on all three accounts.In closing, if you haven't already seen the Rami movie from 2002, go
watch it instead. If you have seen it, then this probably won't live up
to it and you will be left feeling a little underwhelmed. It's fair to
say that for anyone over the age of eighteen, this movie will seem
rather half-hearted and senseless; for those under eighteen, this movie
will probably be the greatest super hero flick ever. Yes, it's a movie
that will divide opinions, primarily on the sole reason for its
existence. Not a bad, or a badly made flick, by any means… just a
pointless one.
