8
Fans of the original breathe easy. This one delivers.

* Very mild spoilers only.Remakes, eh? Love em or loathe em, they appear to be here to stay. Not only that,
nothing is apparently sacred anymore. Dawn of the Dead, The Texas
Chainsaw Massacre, Halloween- a film's "classic" status is no
protection against a fresh, new and usually CGI laden "re-imagining".
And for all you true fuhreelz screw the mainstream horror fans, don't
you go thinking that your scuzzy grindhouse classics such as I Spit on
Your Grave or Last House on the Left are gonna get off lightly either
because they've already been remade as well...... Which brings us to Maniac. You all remember Maniac, right? Bill
Lustig's dirty, sweaty, claustrophobic and nigh on plot less little
grubfest? Who in the hell would wish to remake this and for what
purpose? It was a product of its time, right? And there's no way you
could put a 21st century spin on this and still expect it to retain the
grimy verve of the original which made it- for all its flaws- something
of a cult classic, right? And there's no frickin' way that the Lord of
the Rings Hobbit dude is gonna fill in Joe Spinnel's size 9's, right?Well... wrong actually. Because Maniac 2012 is also a dirty, sweaty,
claustrophobic and nigh on plot less little grubfest... that works,
with Woods underplaying things nicely and the film itself having a
surprisingly arty but effective vibe to it. Swapping the location from
the pee stained alleys and subways of 80s New York for the sun drenched
and sterile neon glare of 21st century LA, we follow our addled
protagonist Frank (Woods) as he relentlessly stalks- and scalps- his
prey. La is a surprisingly effective substitute for NY, as instead of
the sun kissed palm trees and Beautiful People, we're treated instead
to dirty, graffiti daubed alleys and sterile but seedy looking subways,
grimy arenas of death where Frank stalks his victims.However, the main difference here is that we the audience are treated
almost entirely to things via Frank's POV and indeed we actually very
rarely see our protagonists face, except via mainly reflections in a
mirror. However this works all the better as we're given an intimate
(perhaps too intimate) perspective of Frank's fractured world.While not as gratuitous or luridly exploitative as the original, what
violence there is is stark, raw and shot with this dead straight nasty
and decidedly mean spirited tone that makes for eyebrow raising viewing
in parts and best of all the CGI is kept to a bare minimum, with the
kill scenes primarily using old school style FX. The film also engages
in some sweaty, unerotic voyeurism which gives it a surprisingly creepy
tone overall.Maniac is probably the most ambitious, heartfelt and best remake I've
ever seen since The Blob and this isn't something I'd say lightly. It
emerges as its own stand alone film and in tone is as serious a study
of its protagonist as Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer (1986) or even
Angst (1983)While I have- and will always have- an enduring love for Lusatig's
original, I gotta say the remake is technically better made. It's also
geared toward fans of the original and more "serious"/ less "casual"
horror fans in general. It readily states it's "Based on the motion
picture Maniac by William Lustig" and has its title garishly displayed
in large blood red letters in a subtle wink to the original and the
film has also several sly homages to the first that fans of the
original should spot, including an underplayed reference to Joe
Spinnell. It's also in association with Lustig's Blue Underground
company with Lustig producing.Maniac is a film I suspect will improve for me on revisits and it
surpassed my already high expectations for it, which I'd had before
going in, due to its consistently positive reviews. It's a very good remake, a really good horror film in its own right and
I reckon it'll appeal to fans of the original. The director Frank
Khalfoun is either clearly a fan of the original or else knows how much
it's revered by its fans. Either way, his 21st century spin on an 80s
grimy classic works all the better and is the best version any fan of
the original could hope for.8/10, a surprisingly good horror film and a great remake, and
recommended for fans of the original and fans of more visceral horror
in general.
