1
Pathetic at best

This movie was one of the most mangled pieces of garbage I think I have 

ever seen. I actually almost wish that I was speaking in hyperbole. I 

was so insanely bored by "found footage" of some loser cop's college 

class project that I would rather have watched a documentary on the 

history of drinking straws. The movie is basically about two cops that 

do nothing but goof around, break protocol, and act like the low-lifes 

that they are trying to uproot. Not only is half of the movie 

unrealistic, such as ignoring a government agent's orders to leave the 

gang that they are dealing with alone, buts it is saturated with 

stereotypes that are hyperbolas themselves. The "gangsters" in this 

film talk like they are actors in a porno. Almost every line of 

dialogue that they utter is laced with f-bombs. Don't get me wrong 

cussing happens a lot in many people's lives and occupations, but to 

the point where literally every other word is f**k is annoying. There 

is a particular seen where some of the gang-bangers are talking about 

killing the cops and it sounds somewhat like this, "Dude, F, we are 

f-ing gonna f these f-ers up f-ing forever f-ing even f-ing if we have 

to f-ing f those f-ers 'til they're f-ed so much that f-ing their f-ing 

mom will be f-ing skull f-ing them to f-ing bring their f-ing f's back 

to f-ing life. F bro. I'm f-ing serious. F. F. F I F-ing love you." And 

this kind of dialogue happens at least three times for what seems like 

10 minutes each scene. The fact that the gangsters are filming 

themselves is one of the dumbest things because most of the recordings 

are of them talking about committing crimes and killing the cops. I'd 

love to see the court case after the fact where 300 hours of 

incriminating footage had been recovered as evidence to put these 

idiots down. That might almost make a better movie than this one. Then 

there is the other stuff that all the other bad reviews have mentioned. 

The acting is terrible. And no I do not believe that Gyllenhal and Pena 

saved this movie. It is the worst film that either of them has been in. 

Also many of the reviewers are right; these cops would have died 

horrible deaths with as many bullets that were supposedly being shot at 

them. The fact that cops would be portrayed like this, even though I 

hate cops, it is disrespectful to all who serve for the police forces 

in America. I can't even think of any redeeming qualities for this 

film. If I could I would give it a zero. The only part of the film 

where I may have smiled in joy is when one of these loser cops kicks 

the bucket but then they ruin the movie again by letting his partner 

live and sob into his chest. I'm actually surprised he didn't kiss him 

goodbye. My movie theatre has a "no refund policy" and therefore I sat 

and kept praying the movie would somehow get better or at least just 

end. It is really sad that stuff like this can get released in 

theatres, get good reviews, and steal my money all in one day. I've 

practically stopped seeing movies for the first two weeks because 

that's how long you usually have to wait for the honest reviews to 

emerge. 
