9
An immensely satisfying cinematic experience: visually stunning, narratively powerful, and an emotional whirlwind. Best Aussie film of the year.

If film-art is the pursuit of visual pleasure, powerful storytelling
and high emotional impact, then Lion (2016) is the year's high-water
mark for Australian productions. Based on the novel A Long Way Home
(2014), this film adaptation is a richly textured essay on the primal
human need for belonging that will resonate with anyone who has ever
wondered who they are.This true story is told in two parts and filmed across two continents.
Five year-old Saroo is a ragamuffin sidekick to his older brother
Guddo, two poor boys who support their family by stealing coal and
scavenging trains in their West Bengal village. They become separated
one night and Saroo finds himself alone on a train heading to the other
side of India. He he joins hordes of homeless children who must fend
off predators while begging to survive. Eventually he is placed in a
crowded orphanage, then adopted by two big-hearted and childless
Tasmanians, Sue (Nicole Kidman) and John (David Wenham). Twenty years
on, Saroo (Dev Patel) begins to have memory flashbacks of his native
land. As they increase in intensity, he becomes obsessed with finding
his family. With some luck and Google maps, the story comes full
circle.There is so much that makes this film stand out. The storytelling is
more than engaging: it is so captivating that the two-hour run-time
feels like an hour. Acting performances are outstanding: Nicole Kidman
is at her best while the five year-old Saroo (Sunny Pawar) is the heart
of the film and Dev Patel its soul. The cinematography is brilliant,
especially the filming in India. The camera-work is both expansive and
intimate, shifting often from sweeping aerial panoramas of mountainous
Indian countryside and tranquil Tasmanian waterways to narrow winding
alleys, village markets, and the inner-world of Saroo's turmoil. Some
of the most powerful scenes are shot from the eye-level of a terrified
lost boy jostled by masses of humanity and the close-ups of Saroo's
painful face desperate to know home. The colour palette is exotic,
sound track emotionally intense, and the directing finds a rhythm that
is almost orchestral.This film offers an immensely satisfying cinematic experience: visually
stunning, narratively powerful, and an emotional whirlwind. It comes at
the end of a very mixed year for Australian film, with some of the
world's finest produced but many that are less than inspiring. Lion is
one of those films that will appeal to everyone and it has a very long
after-taste. It easily tops my film year.
