9
Catholic Church in the Spotlight.

Relevant, powerful and astonishing. Shocking, criminal and true. These
are the only words to describe this film as it has literally put the
'spotlight' on the systematic cover-up by the Catholic Church of mass
molestation and sexual assault acts performed by the priests in the
Boston archdiocese that were trusted in the communities they
represented. These 'men of God' preyed on the weak and vulnerable for
years and the most powerful religious sect in the world did nothing but
sweep it under the proverbial carpet. 'Spotlight's' dramatic importance
has immediately drawn the attention of film lovers who crave a riveting
production that dives deep into a very real circumstance that has
impacted every corner of the globe.Tom McCarthy could not have been at the helm of a better film and what
he has been able to achieve in terms of wrestling the attentions of the
audience is worthy of the highest praise. McCarthy, along with Josh
Singer have written a gritty story that pulls no punches and it isn't
afraid to get right into the heart of the required subject. For
'Spotlight' to have been received by the critics as well as it has it
had to stride unapologetically into this unbelievable and sordid
affair. It needed to expose the sensitive and controversial information
that some people may find confronting but in the context of this
outstanding production, absolutely essential. It destroyed lives and
revealed the blatant arrogance of this pious organisation.The all star cast jumps right out at you even before the opening scenes
are shot up onto the screen. Based on true events, 'Spotlight' pushes
all the right buttons from the beginning. As the name implies,
'Spotlight' refers to the investigative journalism team who report for
the Boston Globe newspaper. They are thorough, relentless and will stop
at nothing to expose headline stories that affect the everyday lives of
normal American's. When the new editor, Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber),
drops a potentially explosive story in the lap of Spotlight chief,
Walter Robinson (Michael Keaton), about allegations of sexual abuse
involving the Catholic Church, Robinson and his loyal crew go about
uncovering one of the greatest criminal cover-ups in human history. The
deeper their investigation goes the more sadistic and shocking the
outcome becomes. Fingers are pointed, people are accused and the list
of clergy involved becomes larger and larger. The whole situation
ceases to become a Boston problem and grows to a worldwide exposure.
Rachel McAdams and Mark Ruffalo are part of the investigative team as
young committed journalists Sacha Pfeiffer and Mike Rezendes
respectively. McAdams performance is award worthy and Ruffalo is fully
engaged in a role that matches his talents. Michael Keaton has found
his niche in Hollywood as a sort after mentor showcasing another strong
performance as the tenacious and hard hitting Robinson. The real
'cherry' in the cast is the presence of the magnificent Stanley Tucci
as Mitchell Garabedian who represents the victims in the whole saga.
Tucci adds the class that takes 'Spotlight' to another level with an
engrossingly accomplished performance.This is the best journalistic drama since 1976's 'All the President's
Men'. Tom McCarthy has centred his narrative within the confines of the
Boston Globe's newsroom as it should have been. 'Spotlight' doesn't shy
away from the true nature of newspaper drama and the audience benefits
from such an authentic setting. Top shelf acting from some of the very
best young talent sparks the fire that captivates the viewer. Throw in
some true icons in Keaton and Tucci and 'Spotlight' has the perfect
balance. This film will be classified as the very best in its category
and has set a benchmark in terms of confronting realism. Sit back and
enjoy.
