2
No one will expect much from a Jason Statham movie released in January, but "Parker" is still surprisingly disappointing.

"Parker" is quite the conundrum. It's not bizarre enough in visuals to
be unique, nor is it edited flashily enough to be contemporary. It's
not overly violent, exploitive, gratuitous, or edgy in any manner and
the story is severely lacking creativity. The combination of Statham
and Lopez is curious at best, but Statham doesn't rack up an impressive
body count or engage in smartly choreographed warfare, while Lopez
fails to be tough, intelligent, or genuinely sympathetic. Kicking off
with the most generic of setups (borrowing heavily from Kubrick's "The
Killing" and discernibly reminiscent of Mel Gibson's "Payback," itself
adapted from the first Parker novel "The Hunter," whereas this feature
is supposedly penned from the 19th book titled "Flashfire"), the film
meanders through timid heist events until its anticlimactic, borderline
documentary-like conclusion.At the Ohio State Fair, Parker (Jason Statham) orchestrates a burglary
of ticket sales that tiptoes past the one million dollar mark. He's
aided by distraction man Hardwicke (Michah Hauptman), whose fire
divertissement becomes deadly, and two gunmen posing as clowns (Clifton
Collins Jr. as Ross and Michael Chiklis as Melander). A fifth
accomplice, Carlson (Wendell Pierce), drives the getaway police
vehicle. When Parker only wants his cut of the money, refusing to use
the entire take as seed money for another, much more elaborate caper,
the others shoot him and leave him for dead. Barely escaping with his
life, Parker follows the foursome to West Palm Beach, Florida, where he
enlists the help of real estate agent Leslie Rodgers (Jennifer Lopez)
to aid in his various righting of wrongs. "It's the principle," insists
Parker, when his longtime mentor Hurley (Nick Nolte) tries to convince
him to let the whole thing go. "You wanna get yourself killed over
principle?" The character of Parker, as written by Richard Stark in more than
twenty novels, somehow manages to be continually adapted in enervated
ways (save for John Boorman's exceptional "Point Blank"). He's clearly
no James Bond, instead stumbling into comical costumes for simple
robberies (the scores are planned out in a method clearly devoid of
screenwriter knowledge of "The Sting") and repetitive grand theft auto.
He also possesses an archaic and conflicting code of ethics that forces
him to thwart criminals as if he were Batman. The editing sports
flashbacks that embarrassingly reexamine moments that occurred mere
minutes beforehand – the most bewildering of which repeats a scene
depicting Chiklis being villainous, as if audiences might forget which
actor is the antagonist. There is some humor tied to the initial
interactions, but this is quickly substituted for romantic drama of the
painfully stifled kind.This leads to Jennifer Lopez, whose character is introduced late in the
film and for almost no reason at all. Parker is already pointlessly
entangled with a love interest (the young blonde Claire, played by the
forgettable but frequently nude Emma Booth), causing Leslie to appear
desperate. She's pushing 40, divorced, in debt, broke, and lives with
her mother. She tries to force herself on Parker, who promptly rejects
her, creating a role that is swiftly pathetic, withering, foolish, and
nearly suicidal. Thanks to a scene in which she willingly strips for
him to prove she's not wearing a wire, she's also quite fit. Why would
any accomplished, self-respecting woman want this part? While Leslie is the most lamentable character in the screenplay, it's
difficult to ignore the fact that almost every other persona is written
to behave and react exactly how they shouldn't. Claire is unbelievably
shrewd when it comes to circumventing a kidnapping attempt; Melander is
always on the lookout, even when he wouldn't be anticipating an
appearance by Parker, who in turn ponders over events he wasn't present
for; Rodgers is impossibly brave when confronting vicious men from an
underworld she's completely unaccustomed to; and gun and knife wounds
seem to disappear just minutes after they've been acquired, certainly
never getting in the way of physical combat (the most ludicrous is a
brief but heavy-hitting scuffle in which the camera goes to great
lengths to make the defeated appear catatonic at best – yet he strikes
back with full, unfazed force seconds later as if he were Jason
Voorhees). No one will expect much from a Jason Statham movie released
in January, but "Parker" is still surprisingly disappointing.- The Massie Twins (GoneWithTheTwins.com)
