10
Tougher, Grittier, than CLASH

The Gods are all missing, or dying. Years have passed since Perseus
lopped off Medusa's head and used it to kill The Kraken. Io is gone,
finally released from her tortuous never-ending existence, and now Zeus
has a Grandson, Helius (John Bell), whom Zeus Visits while asleep.This is a dirtier, grittier, Greece compared to what we saw in Clash of
The Titans. The Gods are not sparkling like they did in that film. All
of the Gods are gone except for Zeus, Neptune, Hades and Ares-And Hades
wants to wake up Cronus, in order to get a few more years of
"immortality."And so Zeus once more asks Perseus to help him. But Perseus still won't
have much to do with his forlorn Father. Sam Worthington reprises his
role of Perseus and tackles it much the same as in "Clash."This is a Zeus who has lost everything, all he has left is Perseus. In
a last ditch attempt on patching things up, Zeus and Neptune (Danny
Houston) along with Ares (Edgar Ramírez) visit Hades (Ralph Fiennes) in
Tartarus- Where Hades promptly injures Neptune and Kidnaps and Enslaves
Zeus.It is only after two-headed devil dogs from Hell attack Perseus'
Village and endanger his son that he decides to take Ol' Pegasus up to
the mountain where Gods are Worshipped, but he's too late. Neptune
shows up, gives him his Trident and a name: Agenor (Toby Kebbel) who is
his son and has to be found in order to find Hephaestus (Bill Nighy).But Agenor is in Andromedas' jail. Andromeda has magically changed from
Alexa Davalos to Rosamund Pike, but I could give two poops about that,
both were good in the role. In fact, Andromeda has her whole army out
in front of the mountain where Tartarus is. She elects to go with
Perseus and Agenor to find the Missing God.What ensues is almost the Spaghetti-Western version of a Greek God
story, and there are some very cool things, Cyclopses, Minotaurs, even
the great Labyrinth into Tartarus Itself. The Titan Cronus is lodged
into the side of a mountain, draining Zeus' power in order to get loose
so he can destroy the world.This film, not being "pretty" like Clash was, depends more on the
'Fathers and Sons' meat of the tale, Perseus is a son of Zeus, who has
a son Helius, Agenor is son of Neptune, and Ares is Perseus' Brother.
The Journey to Tartarus and the Battle with Cronus is a family affair
for Perseus, and he must needs ride Pegasus once more into the gaping
maw of potential death.And as this movie showed a world that was mostly collapsing dirt,
volcanoes, and gods turning into Dust, the CGI aspects were rendered
that way. What surprised me is how much I liked this compared to the
first one, which I did like a lot. But as that movie was akin to a far
away fantasy, this movie shows how it would look if Titans and Gods
indeed battled on the face of the Earth.Most satisfying was the interactions between Liam Neeson (Zeus) and Ray
Fiennes (Hades) - A relationship so much like our relationships with
our own brothers.As this film had basically a "crash and burn" ending, I suppose there
will be no more movies in this Milieu. So I say Farewell to this short
Franchise, it lived well, and it died well.
