6
Fun at first, ultimately a waste of time...

The set up for the movie had a somewhat interesting concept at its
core: what do people do when they are trapped in a situation where the
only way out is to kill others? Not a completely original idea, but it
has some potential to be thought provoking if there is some kind of
message it is trying to send, or some aspect of society it is trying to
satirize. The resulting bloodbath is well executed, if you are into
seeing office workers murder each other. I can't tell if the movie has
a messed up sense of humor, or if a few people in the theater with me
just thought some of the deaths were so ridiculous it was funny.
Personally I never found any of the deaths over the top ENOUGH to truly
find them funny, so the other people's laughter just kind of made me
uncomfortable... After the bloodbath ends though, ultimately there was
nothing there, no deep thoughts, no important message, no point at all
really. The closest thing I can up with for meaning in the movie is
that in the end, they basically admit there was no real reason for the
experiment to be conducted, and so conducting cruel experiments without
a purpose is a bad thing? But that seems obvious, right? When chaos
ensues, different people react in different ways. It's sort of like the
Walking Dead in that sense, but the Walking Dead has time to develop
its themes and characters long enough for you to extract some meaning.
In a way, the pointlessness of the experiment and the killing is
reflected in the pointlessness of the movie itself. I don't know if
that's kind of meta, or just a waste of time, but yeah, if you skip
this movie, you won't be missing much except seeing a lot of talented
actors who always play supporting roles murder each other in the center
stage. If you want to see John Ghallager Jr in something better, watch
Hush, or The Newsroom. If you want to see Meryl from the Walking Dead,
watch The Walking Dead. If you want to see the ideas this movie brings
up actually addressed in a thought provoking way, maybe try the Hunger
Games, or Battle Royale. This was a fun little film that ultimately
means very little.
