6
A Mixed Bag and What Else Is New

This is an anthology film with 10 segments (which is a lot considering
its runtime--13 minutes a segment). Most of them are short and involve
classic Halloween staples. They kind of relate at the end--a bit too
late. Quick hits of the segments, here we go:Sweet Tooth- One of those myth-y types where characters talk about some
ancient homegrown "legend" that comes true like 5 minutes later for the
first time ever. Solid blood and gore, but hopefully just a prelude to
the good times ahead.The Night Billy Raised Hell- A strange and silly piece. It's got a nice
twist. Perfectly fine in it's minor-ness, though I'm not sure it raises
enough "hell".Trick- Hmm what? A twist in search of some wit, fun, and terror.The Weak and the Wicked- A boy summons a demon to beat up some bullies
(you know, the kind that burn down houses with parents in them for
fun). They don't believe him. Then the demon kicks ass. What actually
kicks ass is the costume used for the demon. No CGI there. Too bad we
don't get to enjoy it more.Grim Grinning Ghost- Another ancient legend come to life story. Yawn.
There's a few nice shots, but really atmosphere like this is near
impossible to build in 13 minutes and it builds to nothing anyway.Ding Dong- This one feels a tad sexist. I don't use that term lightly
but all this is about is a woman who can't be a mom so she turns into a
witch/bitch/demon and eats kids and dogs and stuff. Literally nothing
else.This Means War- Finally some good fun with a solid premise that
shouldn't be drawn out beyond 13 minutes anyway. It's like those stupid
Xmas movies about neighbors fighting over their house's decorations,
except this time at Halloween and with an ensuing bloodbath.Friday the 31st- Holy hell yeah. This is what this film needed more of.
It drops you right in the middle of a classic horror movie scene (power
tool wielding psycho chasing buxom lass) and then completely flips the
switch in a way that no actual film could (the premise isn't
sustainable). Mid-fight alien invasion! And then Evil Dead style
wackadoo limb chop battle.The Ransom of Rusty Rex- Other segments start to show again here (too
late) and it has a solid funny premise. It's not nearly delirious
enough in the back half but it's fun for a while (and when you're
talking 13 minutes that's really saying something, or nothing maybe,
depending on how you look at it).Bad Seed- Finally, killer pumpkins. That's all Halloween is really
about, why did this take so long to get to? Besides the final shot
being some lame-brain Raiders reference it's Halloween at its loopiest
and also its most sincere. Boo.
