1
Finally, it's over! (with spoilers)

The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn - Part 2 is the fifth and final film
in the Twilight film series, adapted from Stephenie Meyer's novel
"Breaking dawn" and the sequel to Breaking Dawn - Part 1. It stars
Kristen Stewart, Robert Pattinson and Taylor Lautner retaining their
lead roles as Bella Swan, Edward Cullen and Jacob Black. Also returning
are Billy Burke, Ashley Greene, Michael Sheen, Dakota Fanning, Peter
Facinelli, Jamie Campbell Bower, Nikki Reed, Kellan Lutz, Maggie Grace,
Jackson Rathbone, Christopher Heyerdahl, Elizabeth Reaser, Booboo
Stewart and Julia Jones. Mackenzie Foy appears as Reneesme, the
daughter of Bella and Edward.The plot of this second part (which is definitely NOT a money-making
scheme by the way guys) is that The Volturi (vampire police) find out
about the kid and think it is a vampire, so start walking as slowly as
they can from Italy to North-West America over a couple of months,
conveniently giving the Cullens plenty of time to build up forces and
defences. Bella will then do anything to protect her child from them,
causing the Ultimate Showdown of Destiny.However, that is not true. They could have condensed all five films
into an hour-long TV film featured occasionally on the Syfy channel,
omitting as much as possible. As with previous films, nothing much
happens, with plenty of staring, people holding hands, kids touching
people's faces, pale, creepy men making weird noises, incomprehensible
zooming-in on body parts and/or inanimate objects and a new addition,
lots of faces being ripped off. Although there is no blood here, to
allow as many people as possible to contribute to the obscene amounts
of money being made by the 'films.' As per every Twilight film, I tried
to give this one a chance. No such luck however. Within the first 5
minutes, there is everything that makes a Twilight "film" - sub-par,
emotionless and frankly diabolical acting, inane, banal and boring
dialogue and some horrible visual effects. When the vampires jump, they
are clearly small, poor CGI models and the directing, green-screen
shots and general camera-work is poor. Now, into -----SPOILER ZONE-----about half an hour of the end of the film, the
whole 'final battle' section, is simply a vision. Around 70% of the
cast members have their faces/other body parts ripped off or die when a
convenient river of lava opens at the bottom of a field of snow, with
plenty of screams and gasps from the audience as their favourite
character is quickly killed off. However, all of this just turns out to
be a future vision. Which means, if you cut out any parts of the film
not in the present, it is 90 minutes of vampires from various places
showing off abilities-----END OF SPOILER ZONE-----The only redeeming factors were one very funny Wilhelm scream, which no
one else in the cinema seemed to appreciate, one or two slightly funny
lines that may have non-Twihards curling the corner of their mouths a
bit, and slightly improved acting.
