4
Best use of bull

Greetings again from the darkness. Sean Penn becomes the latest
addition to the AARP action hero club  a very crowded club these days.
Unfortunately for Mr. Penn, he lacks the smirky charm of Bruce Wills,
the uber-cool of Denzel Washington, and he fails to generate the
empathy of Liam Neeson. He simply doesn't come across as a very likable
guy, and certainly not someone we can root for.Based on the novel of Jean-Patrick Manchette, the movie starts out in
the Democratic Republic of Congo where Penn is a mercenary disguised as
part of a mining security detail. The first 20 minutes are convoluted
and introduce numerous characters and sub-plots that leave us wondering
if there are any good guys here  other than Penn's idealistic doctor
girlfriend played by Jasmine Trinca. A sure sign of a weak script is a
film that is bookended by "newscasts" to explain both what is going to
happen as well as what just happened.Pierre Morel directed the first Taken movie, and his cast is stellar:
Sean Penn, Javier Bardem, Idris Elba, Ray Winstone, and Mark Rylance.
Somehow that combination delivers a hokey, over-acted, cheesy dialogue
mess featuring absurd shoot-outs and action sequences that try to
convince us Penn is some kind of quasi-superhero. His transformation
from geopolitical hit-man to humanitarian is tough to buy, and it's
downright chuckle-inducing to see the times he manages to show off his
sculpted torso. We can only assume his personal trainer received a
bonus for each shirtless scene.The story bounces from Africa to London to Barcelona to Gibraltar and
back to Barcelona. It does include the best use of a live bull so far
this year, though the actual bullfighting is somehow one of the least
gruesome segments of the entire film. The film isn't as sneaky as it
thinks it is in making a statement about multinational corporations
raiding Third World resources. Evidently, the message is that former
assassins can be forgiven if they are re-born as committed to
humanitarian causes, but capitalistic companies cannot possibly justify
their work in impoverished areas.All of the above could be shrugged off if so many wasted opportunities
didn't consistently frustrate. Penn has scenes with all of the other
actors mentioned above, but there is almost no interaction between the
others. Why no confrontations between Idris and Javier? How about one
sequence with Penn, Javier and Winstone squaring off? So many fun
actors, but so little cross-over. Frustration may be the best overall
description for this one, and it encompasses everything from script to
dialogue to camera work.
