1
Life is full of illogical events.

This could have been a really great and interesting movie, but it is
ruined by a string of illogical events. Spoiler alert ! !Some of these: - Kevin (the alien) seems to be totally fire resistant.
At the beginning, one of the scientist chased it in the isolation room
and hit it with a blowtorch multiple times. The alien did not even slow
down a bit, but directly attacked back without seemingly having any
wound. Knowing that only very few materials can resist heat above a
couple of hundred degrees, that seems to be very unreasonable.- The communication system broke down right at the beginning. No
secondary system available in the whole ISS! ! A "radio" cannot cost
that much in the age of telecommunication so designers of ISS would not
build one or more backups of this essential tool into ISS. And that
notion that the communication system would need special coolant ...
Does not make sense at all.- Scientist are mourning a lost crew member for seemingly a long time
while having an all resistant and all powerful alien roaming in their
tiny space station putting them in immediate mortal danger. - The "genius" biologist let himself to be sucked dry and endangered
the entire crew and the entire Earth, by smuggling the alien on his
leg. Just because he thought the alien is not evil and just trying to
survive.- Whatever the crew did worked in favour of the alien. Like if an
unseen hand (lame script) wanted to raise tension by always helping the
alien. Trying to burn the alien in the tubes, the Soyuz capsule which
was meant to push the ISS away from Earth, all pushed the station
closer to Earth! Nothing happened benefiting the crew. - The female scientist sacrificed herself for nothing. It was evident
that the alien can jump with quite an accuracy, so it just jumped back
from her dead body to the space station as could be easily anticipated
even by me.- The fuel just run out at the wrong time. It seemed that if the fuel
would last a bit longer, the alien would suffocate. Surprisingly the
entire space station lost all the fuel just before the alien died, so
it could enter the space station again.- Around the end all system failures worked against the humans and for
the alien. The 2 escape pods went just the wrong direction. Of course
they hit the debris around the space station causing both to take the
opposite course the pilots wanted. Kevin (the alien) seemingly learnt
on the fly how to navigate a human space capsule safely back to Earth
while subduing the scientist in it. He learnt how the control works,
what would be the correct entry path, how human system work on the fly.
HOW? Moreover the astronaut in the capsule did not anticipate that if
the autopilot is let run, than the alien would end up back on Earth. He
clicked buttons, took the controls but these were not enough the diver
the capsule away from the correct entry course. Could not even go on a
burn up or skim off course at least....There were lot more of these in the movie. Basically the movie had
rarely anything logical in it. Even in movie Alien people were not
these "unlucky" or movie script so lame. They fought back, they had
their moments, the universe (script) did not conspire to destroy them
no matter what.
