10
Heartwarming, genuine and well executed

All in all, I thought the chemistry between Anne Hathaway and Robert De
Niro was some of the best I've seen in a long long time. I kept
forgetting that I was actually watching a movie. I didn't want it to
end because I didn't want to say goodbye to these characters. I don't
understand why some reviewers said there was no character growth.
Please read below to find out why I think there was. This movie touched and transported me. For example, the scene where
Jules and Ben are on the airplane laughing and having a good time
together had me smiling without even realizing it. I forgot that I was
watching a movie and I felt more like I was watching two people I cared
about. Also, the hotel room seen the two of them had me weeping. Who
wouldn't want somebody to take care of them, feel genuine pride and
concern for them, and offer them such a touching gesture which I won't
mention because it could be considered a spoiler. But, watch for it.
You can't help but be touched by it. I look forward to watching this film ever since I saw the trailers in
the movie theater. I could tell that it looked heartfelt and well
written. I expected it to be kind of a gag about the old guy trying to
adapt to new ways. It was so much more than that! It was a character
study and the characters I felt were three dimensional despite what
other reviewers have said. Other reviewers have said that there was no
character growth. I completely disagree. Ben's character grew through
the opportunity he was afforded by becoming the intern. I don't think
he expected to experience everything that he did by taking that
position. SPOILER ALERT: He did it just to ease his boredom but he got
the opportunity to nurture and mentor his seemingly cold boss as well
as find love again. Jules grew because through her relationship with
Ben, things that she was feeling but had not admitted to herself became
clear. So, I definitely think there was growth for these characters. There are only three criticisms I have of the movie. One, the scene in
which Ben first meets his love interest at work is a little juvenile in
my opinion. I think the only purpose it serves was to illustrate that
Ben could relate to his younger counterparts regarding a universal
topic. However, I felt the part where the camera focused onto the
object of the scene could have been eliminated and more implied than
direct. We got the point of how he was feeling when she massaged him.
We didn't need the extra graphic reminder of what was happening. I also
thought the scene where the younger interns and Ben went to the
mother's house seemed out of character for Ben. It was a pretty funny
scene but it seemed inconsistent with who he was. I forgave it because
it was funny. The third criticism is that I did not like the husband.
We didn't really get to know him and somehow I found him extremely
annoying. Maybe it was his looks or the actor who was cast in that role
but I just didn't care about him at all.A beautiful, touching, well-done movie that you will not be
disappointed in.
