5
Look in the Mirror

Greetings again from the darkness. Director Steven Soderbergh says this
is it. His final film. At age 50, he says he is walking away from
making movies. Over the years, he has provided some good and some not
so good, but never has he bored us. Movie lovers will always be
grateful to him for his 1989 Sex, Lies and Videotape, which
single-handedly brought the spotlight back to indie film. While I am
quite skeptical of his retirement claim, it's noteworthy because the
absence of one of today's true auteur's would be a loss for the art of
cinema.As for this "last" film, it begins as Hitchcock-esque, but concludes as
more like Basic Instinct or Dressed to Kill. Put simply, the first half
is mesmerizing while the second half devolves into a trashy pulp
thriller.The first half brought to mind the term pharmacological thriller. It
seems as though Soderbergh and frequent collaborator Scott Z Burns
(Contagion, The Informant!) are making a statement about our current
societal trend of seeking answers, or at least treatment, through
medication ... despite the risky side effects. We meet Emily and Martin
Taylor (Rooney Mara and Channing Tatum) as he is released from prison
(insider trading) and she is falling back into her depressive ways. She
is soon enough being treated by Dr. Jonathan Banks (Jude Law), a doctor
who seems typical in his belief that finding the right pill cures most
ills.Since this is a suspense thriller filled with numerous twists and
double, even triple-crossings, it's impossible to go too deep into what
happens without spoilers ... something I won't do here. What can be
said is the pharmacological thriller shifts into legal drama and
finally a who-done-what kind of conclusion. The solving of the mystery
comes courtesy of another oft-used Hitchcock theme: the wronged man
seeking vindication.Rooney Mara and Jude Law are both excellent here and to whatever extent
the story works for you, they deserve the credit along with Soderbergh.
Ms. Mara was outstanding in the American version of The Girl with the
Dragon Tattoo, and Mr. Law continues his transition from lame rom-com's
to quality dramatic actor. The same shouldn't be said for Catherine
Zeta-Jones, who plays Dr Victoria Seibert, Emily's first psychiatrist.
Every scene she shares and every line she speaks just screams "look at
me", not a desired quality for a supporting role.Support work is provided by Polly Draper, Mamie Gummer (Meryl Streep's
daughter), Vinessa Shaw, Peter Friedman, Laila Robins, and Ann Dowd.
Soderbergh does not disappoint from a technical aspect. His odd camera
angles and unique shots are quite impressive and effective in
sustaining the mood, even as the story spirals towards far-fetched. If
it's truly his swan song, it seems appropriate that we see both the
highs and lows of director Soderbergh. Here's hoping he returns very
soon to the medium where his impact is needed.
