4
Ice Age 1-2-3 were better......Number 4.... yikes!

It still feels like yesterday when i saw the first Ice Age in theaters,
at first i thought it was just a typical kids movie made to entertain
kids only leaving adults bored. But after watching the movie, i laughed
so hard my blood pressure rose and i just fell in love with the series
throughout my childhood! Anytime a new Ice Age was released in
theaters, we had to watch it first before any other movie. No matter
what was in the film i have always givin a 10/10 for the funny moments.When Ice age 3 came around, i thought it was going to be the best and
the last .. well it was very very good but it wasn't the last. I
thought it was the last film because how Buck chose to stay below :(
and Scrats new girlfriend Scratte stayed below ground too and how the
ending credits was set up.And now.... here comes Ice Age 4, yay!... not. Anyhoo, i went and saw
ice age 4 today getting excited and all. What a drag it was, If you
remember watching ice age 1-2-3 and loved how the herd was still the
same as they were just the fantastic trio. Well, in number 4, it
doesn't seem like an Ice Age to me because of the too many new
characters and the unnecessary teenage drama with Ethan, Steffie, and
Peaches. It was cool how they added pirates and a girl for Diego (it
was about time for that) but the character development was bad.Remember Crash and Eddie? they was only shown in four scenes out of the
whole movie. Ellie wasn't in it much either, nor was Shira! I mainly
blame this movie because of the horrible teenage drama, lack of
character development, too many unnecessary new characters, and last
but not least, drama queens the horrible trios (steffie, Ethan, Megan)
being part of the herd instead of the good ones like Buck, Fast Tony,
Scratte, and the baby, the classic ones that deserved to be. Not these
screw ups.I feel terrible that this is the first time i gave Ice Age a negative
review, but to me, it was the truth. This movie was the worst of the
bunch.Hopefully Ice Age 5 will be better. I hope they bring back all of our
favorite characters from the past that we've come to love during the
first three adventures, but it seems that the new horrible trios are
going to reappear once again to ruin it.(you know who im talking about)
