8
A bold, audacious tour-de-force in cinematic storytelling

This movie is a fusion of several genres (drama, adventure, sci-fi,
comedy, romantic tragedy) as well as an attempt for an art-house
cerebral movie to attain commercial blockbuster status. In my opinion
it mostly succeeds, but finding a large mainstream audience is its
biggest challenge to be met (at this point, before wide release).Imagine taking six short (but big-budget) films with different stories
and directors and combining them into an anthology feature, united by a
common theme and cast of actors in different roles, and then editing
the entire thing out of sequence. The "nested" narrative of the book
has been re-arranged for the sake of the visual medium of film, and
after first being introduced to the 6 worlds, it's not that hard to
keep track of who's who, what's what and where & when. Frankly, it's a
shoo-in for an Oscar nomination for Best Editing - it works very well
considering the challenge of making it flow coherently. The cinematography, set & art design, music score and performances
range from good to great. The make-up in some cases created a
distraction (a Korean woman transformed into a red-haired Caucasian;
Hugo Weaving as a buxom female nurse) but it adds a bit of fun to the
experience. There's a smörgåsbord of material here for most people:
human drama, mystery, violence, sex, adventure, farcical comedy, gloomy
sci-fi and occasional romance (both gay and straight). It's 6 movies
for the price of one! Just be ready to spend almost 3 hours in your
seat and suffer a bit of whiplash as the transitions can get frenetic
at times, with multiple cliff-hangers happening simultaneously. Like a
good roller-coaster, it has its lulls and rushes. Some might find the
finale a bit conventional, sappy or anti-climactic. But there's no
denying this is a big, expensive gamble on the part of the Wachowskis
and their producers. Hopefully it'll achieve the kind of success they
got with the first "Matrix" and not the fate of the abysmal "Speed
Racer." (PS I saw the film at its world premiere at TIFF.)
