3
Had Potential...Had

Maybe it says something about me, that I was able to figure out that
she was deaf before the movie told me (over and over again). While that
might seem insignificant at first, it sets the stage for an overly
predictable movie to come.Not even coming in at 90 minutes long, Hush (2016) still manages to
move at a crawl, while offering little to chew on.I guess I'll start with the good things. The acting is actually decent
from our lead, Kate Siegel. Everyone else falls flat. This is less
their fault, and more the fault of poor direction, and bad writing. The
sound design is also good, but it doesn't make a movie good...The acting from everyone else is a flat line. Our killer in question,
John Gallagher Jr., could have been given more to work with, but
instead he's just a killer. At times it seems he wants to be more
"psychotic" but isn't given the chance.The other actors, what few there are, are a flat line as well, with our
other two actresses serving as exposition dumps (albeit, very little
exposition).The gimmick, and yes that's what it is, could have been done well in
the hands of a good director. The movie wants us to believe that she
can feel vibrations to sense things around her (one of the many things
the movie sets up in the "first act" before our killer shows up), but
we're supposed to believe that it only works some of the time? I guess
she has selective feeling.Additionally, it seems that her sense of sight is useless as well,
since her peripheral vision never catches anything. Same goes for the
killer at times. It's like everyone can only see directly in front of
them.As for the logic of the movie, I'm willing to give the killer a pass
for not just breaking in before. He's clearly crazy to some degree,
though the way he acts never truly translates just how crazy he is...
Where the logic in the movie fails is how our characters deal with the
situation. Maddie (Kate Siegel) makes SEVERAL errors throughout the
entire movie, yet we're suppose to believe she can fight off an insane
man. The killer also makes several mistakes as well. After being
attacked the first time by Maddie, he should have just finished the
job. After all, he's just some killer, with no connection to her
whatsoever. He's killed plenty before, so why take the punches with
this one? He actually acts as if he's trying to get inside at times.
His motivation is simply random.Maddie on the other hand could be written off as her being in a
"panicked state". However, much like the killer being a crazy person,
this is a cop out used by bad writers. Especially when you consider
that she had plenty of time to think and assess the situation. Instead
she keeps putting herself in situations where there is suppose to be
suspense, but since you already know what's coming, there is none.The best part of the movie is how both characters had plenty of
opportunity to kill each other, but just don't do it whatsoever. The
part that stuck out the most is when John (Michael Trucco), is using
what life he has left, to strangle and hold down the killer. This
offers plenty of opportunity for Maddie to finish the killer, but she
doesn't do so.In the end, Maddie leaves us with a smile, either because her cat
decided to be dependent for once, or because she didn't care for her
neighbors that much. Hmm, maybe that's the twist ending I was waiting
for...Maddie planned it all along as a way to rid herself of her
neighbors, legally!Actually that might be more interesting than this movie. Anyways, avoid
if you're looking for a home invasion movie with any kind of
originality.
