4
Take Sissy Spacek to the prom instead.

Having followed this film from its initial announcement up to its
release, I can assure you it's not at all what we were promised.
Several interviews with the cast and crew members claim it to be a more
faithful adaptation of its original source; the 1974 novel penned by
Stephen King. It's not. No, Screen Gems and MGM's 2013 revamp of
'Carrie' is more akin to that of the 1976 film, which featured numerous
changes from the book - all of which are still present here. This is
only a minor gripe as its not an issue, per say, I just don't
appreciate being misled. On we go.Moretz plays the titular character and, whilst a fantastic young
actress, she was definitely lacking something here and her performance
is just short of believable. Most of the time, it just came off flat. I
said from the get-go she was a miscast, but I was willing to give her
the benefit of the doubt - and she just didn't quite pull it off for
me. It would've been advisable to hire someone a tad older with more
experience, but I digress.On the completely other hand, Moore delivers an absolutely brilliant
performance as Carrie's psychotic mother, Margaret. Fantastically
creepy, and while she may be no Piper Laurie (1976's original), her
superb portrayal is the best thing in this movie - and one that longs
to be in a better film.Let me compare with the original for one second. The 1976 film slowly
builds Carrie's powers so when it comes to it, the prom destruction is
a complete shock. But here? Oh, no. It was more like watching Matilda
than Carrie. Levitating books, humans... you name it. By the time it
gets to prom, the extent of her powers are no longer a surprise and it
all comes off as rather tame actually. I certainly didn't get any
satisfaction from it. They cranked the CGI up to 110, however. In this
case, less is definitely more. Director take note.The supporting cast do their best with what they're given, notably
Portia Doubleday as Carrie's nemesis Sue, making the film not
completely without its merits, but when it comes down to it, 2013's
Carrie really just feels like a pale imitation of the 1976 film. It
doesn't bring anything new or fresh to the table and it doesn't even
feel like it tries to, which I suppose is fine if you've never read the
book or seen any of the film adaptations. But if you have, you might be
better off taking another visit to that prom.Like going to your own prom and not being crowned anything, there's no
real payoff. 4/10.
