7
A Cult Classic for a New Generation

Simply put, this is a future cult film for a new generation. The zombie
sub-genre is one that is so incredibly saturated that it can be hard to
find a decent new film as we have to wade through tons of sewage to
find anything with some value. Thankfully, after a fair bit of digging,
we have one with Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse. It's a film
that will appeal to the new generations of horror fans who were born
into this nutty zombie infested pop culture, and it should also
resonate with the well travelled horror fans who grew up on a diet of
Evil Dead and Re-Animator. It's not going to be a mainstream success,
and it's not going to appeal to everybody but Scouts Guide to the
Zombie Apocalypse is a blast of fun from start to finish.It's clear from the opening scene of the film that aims to be a bucket
of bloody fun. As a foolish janitor messes around with some laboratory
equipment and comes across a strange looking comatose patient, he
accidentally causes the them to flat-line and awkwardly tries provide
CPR. His efforts are clearly in vain as he pushes his hands through the
patients chest and wakes up the living dead, thus causing the zombie
outbreak.The comedy in the film ranges from hilarious mutilation of corpses,
wacky animal zombies to plain stupidity, but it is none the less
entertaining every step of the way. Highlights include a scene
involving a trampoline, which had my body cringing in disgust and
almost laughing hysterically at the same time, and a surreal rendition
of a classic Britney Spears song. The climax owes a lot to the gaming
franchise Dead Rising as the boys use the scout skills to craft hand-
built weapons from a hardware store for maximum zombie killing impact.Despite the zombies being a primary part of the proceedings, it would
have been a shell of a film had it not had the central friendship
between the characters of Ben, Carter, and Augie. We can all relate to
a group of friends on an adventure, and their dynamic has shades of 80s
classics like The Goonies and Stand By Me. It isn't drawing on anything
new but it doesn't pretend to either as it feels like a hokey
sentimental tribute to cult favourites such as The Monster Squad. The
80s are very much beating in the lively heart of this horror.I'm a horror fan through and through, and the genre needs feel good
films like this, equal parts gore and laughs with a splat of gratuitous
nudity for good measure. At the end of the day isn't that what fun
horrors are all about?
