3
Simply put - it is beautifully stupid

I believe this movie only solidifies my concrete statement that 21st
century is an age of pointless cinema. Most of the plot in Chappie either fails to follow common human logic,
or completely breaks it. This is a modern trend of over- dramatizing
the events by making "shit happen" in the literal meaning of this
phrase.It all starts in a not-too distant future with an international
corporation, based in SAR, which solved the problem of rising crime
wave by introducing almost all-robotic police force.Then few things just happen:- The lead researcher makes a breakthrough in AI development and asks
company CEO to give him a broken robot for experiments. She "politely"
refuses and desperate doc risks his impressive paycheck and reputation
by stealing this piece of junk off the scrapyard.- The rival former-military engineer fails to sell his combat machine
(which for some reason looks like robot-chicken from robocop) and after
another budget cut risks his not-so-impressive paycheck, but more solid
reputation as pioneer in neural interfaces, to sabotage the whole
"scout" operation and start a nationwide crime spree- A local gang with looks of early 90s inspired cyberpunk movies get
into conflict situation with another dude. In order to solve this
problem they need to find 20.000.000 moneys, so the only logical
solution is to find a robot-maker and get a hypothetical OFF-switch, so
it will be easier to do whatever crimes they've planned with their
pumpkin heads.They bust the doctor, while he was driving a van with a stolen robot.
After successful installation of new software they get a
semi-intelligent gansta-ninja robot filled with curiosity, deep
understanding of neural interfaces and human consciousness, but lacking
the basic knowledge of trauma, pain and death (even with internet
connection).The end result: all robots are broken, everyone is dead. After lots of
shooting and the final boss battle Chappie revives the doctor and his
mama as robots. Credits start rolling, so are my strained eyes...Gave it 3/10 for visuals. Everything else sucks. All the aspects of the
movie that fans claim to be unique and innovative have been
meticulously copied from many other(even recent) sci-fi titles with no
sign of shame or remorse.
