9
Woody and Cate Make a Fine Duet

Woody Allen's finely tuned screen-writing skills and his talent for
eliciting standout and often award-winning performances from his
leading ladies are on full display in "Blue Jasmine." Alec Baldwin, the
slick husband of a middle-aged socialite, Cate Blanchett, pulls a
Bernie-Madoff swindle and ends up in jail. The homes, the cars, the
furs, the jewels, the furniture all go to the Feds, and the penniless
Cate flies first class to San Francisco with her Louis Vuitton luggage
to stay with her non-biological sister, Sally Hawkins, until she gets
back on her feet. Blanchett, the Jasmine of the title, is totally
unprepared for her economic fall. She decides to become an interior
designer, but wants to study on-line; however, she is computer
illiterate and must take a course, before she can begin to study
decorating; but, she needs money for the courses and takes a
receptionist job with a lecherous dentist. Although the film addresses
serious issues, the Allen humor will provoke smiles and an occasional
chuckle, from small well-observed moments such as the attempts of
indecisive patients to make dental appointments.Understandably, Cate Blanchett's Jasmine teeters on the edge of a
nervous breakdown; she lies instinctively, even to herself; and she
cannot or will not face the reality of her downward mobility. The role
is an actress's showcase, and Blanchett is in top form; her nervous
rambling monologues, either to herself or to unwilling strangers,
provide a study guide for aspiring actors. Jasmine brays at her
"sister," Ginger, effortlessly and engagingly played by Hawkins; she
nags about Ginger's job, lover, and living quarters, until Ginger
points out Jasmine's own diminished situation. Jasmine bellows that
Ginger can do better than her amorous boyfriend, Chili, a charismatic
Bobby Cannavale with a bad haircut and faded tattoo; eventually, Ginger
reminds her that her own choice of husband was less than stellar.
Jasmine, Ginger, and Chili make an aromatic trio, whose names perhaps
allude to their personalities, and they are ably supported by Louis
C.K., a horny guy with the hots for Ginger, and Peter Sarsgaard, a
respectable diplomat seeking a suitable wife for his political career.In keeping with the film's title, Woody uses blues on the soundtrack,
and his cinematographer, Javier Aguirresrobe, lenses the dual New York
and San Francisco locales effectively. Although the jump cuts in time
are jarring initially, viewers will quickly accommodate to New York
being the past and San Francisco the present. Woody at age 78 is a
master writer, especially of women's characters, and "Blue Jasmine"
finds him at his best. Although Woody's trademark humor flickers
throughout, the film is essentially about a vulnerable woman standing
amidst the ruins of her former life and facing a precariously uncertain
future. Audiences may come out praising the performers, but humming the
blues.
