7
This movie isn't what it pretends to be! See beneath the Macho clichés and you will find an awesome movie.

I saw the trailers for the movie and expected another Transformers, SFX
for all your money. When I started watching the movie though I noticed
something wasn't just right. Why don't the aliens to more Bad things?
We are supposed to hate them, they are here to take over our world,
Right?Nope. And this is where this movie actually Shines, and the reason it
gets so many bad reviews is that people miss out on 2 very important
facts.Aliens are the Good Guys Humans are the Bad Guys. The movie just makes quite a good job with camouflaging this in regular
Blockbuster Cheesiness. The movie is a direct documentation about how
hellish and pointless war is.1.Humans in the movie are very aggressive and dumb. Our Main hero is a
guy who should never have been put in command of anything! And here he
gets to greet our first ever contact with aliens, using Guns, Cruise
Missiles and Torpedoes!2. Aliens never want to hurt anyone. The Aliens Are Passive, Never
firing unless first fired upon. The point is made extra clear with the
scene where a DeathBall stops in front of a child, re-planning its
route in order to destroy the highway without harming the child. How
Much Clearer Can It Get?3. Aliens have no Military Grade Weapons. This is another point where
people seem to watch this movie expecting the regular Blockbuster, and
then hate this movie because it isn't! The Aliens didn't expect a war
so they didn't Bring Weapons!The Satchel-Bombs they fire of their ships are actually terrible as
weapons, the only reason they work at all is because we humans have
such slow ships. This is probably because these bombs aren't designed
for any sort of ship to ship battle, but rather for clearing up debris.
And what we see on a personal level is an engineering tool the aliens
seems to use a lot more for setting up their generators than to
actually fight with.This is NOT your classic race of Evil Aliens equipped with
Independence-Day Lasers, or Corrosive "Aliens" Blood! This is a
peaceful advanced race, which came here not expecting to fight, but to
talk.Once you realize this the movie starts making sense. what our "hero"
does is in fact to constantly seek out conflict. Doing everything he
can in order to destroy these Aliens, all because of some
miscommunication and stupid decisions. If this movie teaches anything, It would definitely be that when the
time comes for humans to face another, alien race. Make sure the ones
we send to greet them aren't Military.So Basically what the movie is Really about is about a peaceful race of
aliens who receive a message from an apparently peaceful race. We then
greet them by firing upon them, trying to kill them even if they aren't
even firing at us. So when they realize their mistakes we do our best
trying to prevent them from sending a "Its a trap, humans are evil"
message.Regular blockbuster movies often manage to build up a mountain of evil
actions on the aliens account, making the "Heroes" fight justified and
true.Battleship doesn't do that, It puts the regular Blockbuster Patriotism
into a setting where it becomes totally destructive, not only
preventing the Aliens and Humans to communicate, but also started a war
that have already seen thousands of casualties, and may see millions
more before its over.I rate the movie 7 out of 10. Its a really fresh take on the whole Evil
Alien Invasion theme.
