8
Maudie

Maudie, the new film about Canadian artist Maud Lewis, is at times a
disturbing watch, but as a whole it is a very fascinating film on a
number of different levels. Before, I went to see this new film, I
looked up various pictures and images of Maud's different paintings and
I honestly have to say that a lot of what I saw I did like. I am
certainly no art critic and do not pretend to be one either, but with
Maud's paintings I found myself loving her bright use of primary
colours as well as the sometimes very simplistic style she used to
paint with and I found this further enhanced her work by not being
overly flashy, or showy, but instead it has more of a primitive almost
at times childlike style, or way it was done, but instead of looking
amateurish it instead highlights her grand use of colours and
accentuates what she is painting and gives the whole thing a very
pleasing look that I think words like bright, or happy could definitely
accompany her body of work. Needless to say with the examples I saw
online as well as the pieces that were showcased in this new film, I
would consider myself a fan of her work and if I was to come across one
of her pictures in a store, I would definitely consider buying it and
hanging it up with my other collection of prints by various other
modern artists. The other fascinating thing about this new film are the
characters of Maud herself and her husband Everett Lewis. Both are
complicated characters in a lot of ways and while at times their
relationship is sometimes very difficult to watch, there is also a
certain tenderness and mutual admiration that these two characters have
for each other, even if they do not show it openly, or as evidently as
perhaps most people would. Maud, is often hunched over and has a lot of
difficulty walking and performing everyday tasks from what we later
learn is arthritis, but I would not be surprised if there were other
factors involved in this as well. Maud also has a certain childlike way
to her as well. Sometimes she can be downright stubborn about a certain
situation and at times she can also be very socially awkward and at
times could easily mimic, or be confused with someone struggling with
any number of types of autism. At other times she seems to have a
general rosy type view of things and for the most part she seems to be
a pragmatist and tries to look on the brighter side of life and in a
lot of ways she will often forgo her own feelings, or wants to the
extent that she is always willing to please and often puts her own
happiness aside to please others. Everett, on the other hand is a man
who seems to be extremely rough around the edges. Whenever we see him
he mostly has a huge scowl on his face and looks unhappy and pretty
much is angry and bitter a lot of the time. This causes what is a lot
of the dysfunction, or at least what appears to be difference from the
norm in his relationship with Maud. Everett, we learn was most likely
an orphan and most of his life he seems to have been away and never
truly gotten to integrate himself into life with other people, or
mastering the terribly tricky thing of human relationships and even the
basic levels of how to interact with other people. He often seems like
a very self centered and sometimes downright cold and mean man. However
as the film goes on we definitely do see his relationship with Maud
tested on a number of different issues and yet they are always sticking
by each other no matter what situation may present itself. Deep down I
think they both had a sense of love for one another. It may be
different than what most people would consider love, but I think it was
still there even if it was hard to see at times. The performances by
Sally Hawkins and Ethan Hawke are terrific and give much depth and also
much to contemplate after watching them perform as these characters and
they also do a fine job of establishing just how complex these people
were. The body language, facial movements and mannerisms are all done
to perfection and these are certainly two performances that will be
noticed come awards time next year. I also like how the film did not
sugar coat, or suggest an easy life for either of these two characters,
but instead shows you them in the best and worst of times. The art
aspect and Maud's paintings also make for intriguing viewing, but what
is most evident to me here is a story of two polar opposite people
trying to make a go of it and perhaps doing better than most people
could say of their own relationships. Certainly food for thought and an
intriguing notion the film leaves you with which is one of it's truly
commendable qualities as well as being a great biopic, but more than
that a truly unorthodox relationship that may be difficult to watch at
times, but certainly is rewarding as well.
