7
Competent film with unexploited potential, but satisfying nonetheless

I tend to be curious every time a talented filmmaker gets to direct a
film set in a pessimistic future/post-apocalyptic era : visually, it's
the perfect setting for desolated landscapes and amazing images of
urban chaos ; story-wise, it's the perfect occasion to insert social
commentary and establish more or less subtle metaphors about our
current way of life, our current values, and extend in a fictitious way
many assumptions that we have regarding the fate of mankind and our
very own planet. In my opinion, it has to be one of science-fiction's most important
sub-genres, since it leaves so much room to contemporary concerns (the
environment, pollution, wars, immigration, etc.). Films like "Children
of Men", "Looper", and "The Road" have greatly contributed to this
sub-genre which, in reality, is not really new, but is constantly being
redefined and given different treatments : "Children of Men" was an ode
to life, "Looper" felt a lot like a modern-day western, "The Road" was
a classic tale of a father-and-son relationship, and now, "Elysium", a
thriller/action film/social commentary about disparity between the rich
and the poor. Neill Blomkamp burst out of the scene in 2009 with
"District 9", a very similar project in several regards, and blew
audiences away with a clever mix of documentary-style filmmaking,
explosive action, and the refreshing implement of an obvious social
commentary."Elysium" starts off brilliantly, showcasing two opposite environments:
the old Earth, which has turned into a huge ghetto where people live
like cattle, and Elysium, a high-end space station where all the
wealthy people from Earth have moved to establish their home. We are
then introduced to our protagonist, Max Da Costa (Matt Damon), whose
quest is quickly defined after being exposed to deadly radiation : With
five days left to live, Max will ally up with a group of illegal
immigrants to get to Elysium so he can get the proper medical attention
he needs. But Secretary Rhodes (Jodie Foster), an evil government
executive in charge of defending Elysium, will stand in his way, by
hiring Kruger (Sharlto Copley), a psychopathic mercenary in charge of
neutralizing all illegal immigrants.The first third of "Elysium" is both fascinating and stressful : You
are being introduced to the over-populated Earth, its hospitals, its
industrial plants, its streets. These images are very reminiscent of
the Johannesburg ghettos depicted in "District 9". And then, you get to
see glimpses of the wonderful Elysium, a visual tour-de-force that ends
up being shamefully underused in the film. The first moments Max is
shown after being exposed to radiation, the film jumps into a
nerve-racking tone, and it is very effective, as it is blended with
several dramatic elements that range from innovative to pretty common.Unfortunately, the pace slows down in the second third, where Max's
story gets sidelined a bit, to the profit of a few sub-plots that
involve an unpredictable, yet not so major twist in terms of impact on
the story, as well as a sub-story involving the daughter of an old
friend of Max. And while the twist is a welcome addition, the sub-story
comes a little out of nowhere and comes off as a bit of a cliché. It
seemed like Blomkamp was trying to preserve this family theme that was
dear to him in "District 9", and that served the story so well in his
previous film. Its unusual aspect prevented it from being too clichéd
(an alien dad and his alien son), which is unfortunately not the case
in "Elysium". It does not ruin the film, but it does steal its share of
precious screen time in a film that feels a tad too short, and leads it
towards more conventional developments.Then the pace picks up again, with a third act that consists mostly of
a bunch of pretty awesome action/fighting sequences, where the feeling
of urgency from the original quest has pretty much left the building.
In terms of writing, this is conventional stuff, but the technical
expertise behind the visuals and the sound is a thing of beauty. Also,
the dramatic elements displayed in the first third are briefly brought
back to seal the deal, and do provide a satisfying feeling of closure
to the story.Overall, this is quality entertainment with impressive visuals, and a
world of ideas that had infinite potential. And while "Elysium"
exploited only a fraction of its potential, what it did exploit it did
it successfully. Directing, photography, music, and performances are
all superb. With a decent yet a bit unoriginal social commentary in the
background that does get shelved in the second half to the profit of
rock-solid action sequences, the strengths of "Elysium", taken
individually, do feel a bit scattered, but make for an overall very
competent package.
