8
Big Hero 6

This Disney computer animated film was advertised a good few months
before the actual release, including cinemas with a large inflatable
rubber versions of the recognisable leading robot character, I was very
much looking forward to this feature. Basically fourteen year old
robotics genius Hiro Hamada (Ryan Potter) lives in the futuristic city
of San Fransokyo and spends his time participating in back-alley robot
fights, his older brother Tadashi (Daniel Henney) worries he's wasting
his potential, so he takes him to the robotics lab at his university,
there Hiro meets Tadashi's friends GoGo Tomago (Sucker Punch's Jamie
Chung), Wasabi (Damon Wayans Jr.), Honey Lemon (Genesis Rodriguez) and
Fred (T.J. Miller). Hiro is also introduced to Baymax (Scott Adsit), a
personal healthcare robot Tadashi created, amazed, Hiro decides to
apply for the school, presenting his project - microbots, swarms of
tiny robots that can link together in any arrangement imaginable - to
gain admission, school robotics program head Professor Robert Callaghan
(James Cromwell) is impressed and Hiro is accepted, but a fire breaks
out at the university, Tadashi rushes to rescue Callaghan, but the
building explodes and both are killed, Hiro secludes himself from
others having lost his brother. One day, Hiro accidentally activates
Baymax who responds to his cry of pain, i.e. "ouch", the robot notices
one of Hiro's microbots moving in its jar and thinks it wants to go
somewhere, Hiro and Baymax are led to an abandoned warehouse, there
they discover that someone has been mass-producing Hiro's bots, before
a masked man controlling them attacks and chases them out. Realising
this masked man has stolen his project, Hiro decides to catch him,
upgrading Baymax with high-tech armour and a battle chip, and he
reunites with GoGo, Wasabi, Honey Lemon and Fred, the six form a
superhero team, they are all attacked by the masked man but manage to
get away. The group discovers a former lab of prestigious robotics
company Krei Tech, it was experimenting teleportation technology, the
test went wrong when the test pilot vanished into the unstable vortex,
the masked man reveals himself as Profressor Callaghan, he stole Hiro's
bots and used them to escape the fire. So Tadashi died in vain, Hiro
angrily removes Baymax's healthcare chip, leaving him only the battle
chip, and orders him to kill Callaghan, Baymax almost does so, until
the healthchip is reinserted by Honey, and he is restored, angry for
their interference Hiro leaves his friends and goes home where he
breaks down. Baymax asks Hiron if killing Callaghan would improve his
"emotional state", he is not sure, but to soften Hiro's loss Baymax
plays several humorous video clips of Tadashi creating and running
tests on him during Baymax's development, Hiro realises killing
Callaghan is not what Tadashi would have wanted, so he makes amends
with his friends. The group discovers that Callaghan wants revenge on
Alistair Krei (Alan Tudyk), president of Krei Tech, because he blames
him for the death of his daughter Abigail (Katie Lowes), she was the
test pilot, so with newly formed armour and technological advances they
team together to save Krei and stop Callaghan. The microbots are
destroyed and Krei is saved, but the teleportation portal remains
active and is imploding, Baymax detects that Abigail is still alive,
trapped in hypersleep, in the abyss, he and Hiro race to save her, but
with most of his armour lost Baymax realises the only way to save Hiro
and Abigail is to propel them back out the portal with his remaining
rocket fist, Hiro refuses to leave him, but Baymax insists and Hiro
tearfully gives in, Hiro and Abigail make it back, and Callaghan is
arrested. Sometime later Hiro is trying to move on, but he discovers
Baymax's clenched rocket fist contains his healthcare chip (this
contains his entire personality), delighted he rebuilds Baymax and they
happily reunite, and with their four friends they continue helping
those in need in the city, as Big Hero 6. Also starring Maya Rudolph as
Cass, Abraham Benrubi as General, Billy Bush as Newscaster and Daniel
Gerson as Desk Sergeant. The young leading character is a likable and
sometimes vulnerable technological genius, his supporting friends all
offer their good traits as well, but it is the hero's robot companion
that steals the show with his kind and caring personality, and when he
gets added extras he becomes much more the fantastic pal to have. This
is supposed to be based on a comic book series, it apparently does not
have much relation to the original, but that doesn't matter, the whole
family will be enthralled by the high-octane fight, flying and chase
sequences, as well as the tender moments, the references to western
technology and culture is great, and the animation is superb, it is a
fabulous animated superhero action comedy film. It won the Oscar for
Best Animated Feature Film of the Year, it was nominated the BAFTA for
Best Animated Feature Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for
Best Animated Feature Film. Very good!
