10
Surpassed My Expectations

The film Dark Shadows opened to an eagerly awaiting audience of both
Tim Burton and Johnny Depp fans. Based on the ABC daytime show which
aired during the late 1960s which generated a cult following, what was
taken seriously in the late 60s / early 70s comes across as comedy
today. The majority of the movie is set in 1972 and incorporates music
from the Moody Blues (Nights in White Satin) with appearances by Karen
Carpenter in a TV scene, a cameo appearance by Alice Cooper and
appearances by four of the original Dark Shadows actors including
Jonathan Frid who passed away shortly after filming. Rated PG-13 for
comic horror violence, sexual content , drug use, language and smoking,
one of our 14-year-old critics, Raven Devanney rated it 6 out of 5
stars for ages 13 and up. Here's her take: Dark Shadows Reviewed by
Raven Devanney http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2NE6UPSLcM Dark Shadows
is a hilarious movie about a man named Barnibus Collins, who is cursed
by an evil witch when he refuses to give her his love. Turned into a
vampire, Barnibus is locked away in a coffin for two centuries. Now,
freed by unsuspecting construction workers, Barnibus finds that his
home town of Collins Port has drastically changed. He must learn to fit
into the 70s while protecting his family, restoring Collins Port to its
former glory and riding himself of the evil witch, Angelique, who
cursed him to be a creature forced to hide in dark shadows. I
absolutely loved this movie. Johnny Depp, who plays Barnibus Collins,
did fantastic! Johnny is one of my all time favorite actors and when he
teams up with director Tim Burton, you know it's a film worth seeing.
The cinematography was great because of the gloominess that you will
often find in Tim Burton's films, but they found a flawless way to
thrown in the bright colors of the 70's. The special effects were great
too, especially in the end when Angelique's skin started to crack; she
really looked as if she was made out of porcelain. Something that did
bother me about the visuals was that the blood in the film looked way
to fake considering that it is a vampire movie. My favorite character
would have to be that daughter of the Collins family played by Chloe
Moretz. One; she is my favorite young actress, two; she played a moody,
mellow dramatic, angsty teenager perfectly. The acting in this film was
priceless because there was a lot of over- acting, but not in a cheesy
way, it was done very purposefully and it gave a wonderful comedic feel
to dramatic situations. I suggest this film for ages 13 and up because
of sexual situations, mild drug use and language. I would give this
film 6 out of 5 stars because it far surpassed my expectations!
