4
Yet another weak Stephen King film!!

This film reminds me of the situation surrounding the making of The
Lord of the Rings trilogy. The film was turned down by one studio after
another as none of the studios wanted to commit to making 3 films. One
of the studios actually agreed to make it, but only if the script was
condensed into a single film. Thankfully the people that had the rights
and were pitching the films understood that the idea of translating the
entire Lord of the Rings trilogy in a single film was a laughable
proposition and the end result would have been a terrible film that
would ultimately do no justice to the source material. They were
willing to bring it down to 2 films instead of 3, but the studio wound
up turning them down. The final studio they approached was New Line and because all of the
other studios had turned them down, they pitched it to New Line as a 2
film series as opposed to a trilogy. Amazingly, New Line agreed to take
on the project but only if it was made as a trilogy. Clearly someone at
New Line smartly recognized that Lord of the Rings was an amazing
project and the only way to do it right was to make it a trilogy. And
anyone who has read the Lord of the Rings trilogy understands first
hand that there is just way too much material to be condensed into a
single film or even 2 films. And as we all know, the films wound up
being a HUGE success and made New Line billions. At last look the
Trilogy had made more than 6 billion world wide. Like Lord of the Rings, The Dark Tower series is just way too big to be
condensed into a single film. Any film studio that was legitimately
serious about doing the Dark Tower series justice would understand that
right out of the gate. The Lord of the Rings was 3 books and the
running time for the extended versions of the films was 682 minutes or
just over 11 hours long. .The Dark Tower series is 8 books and many of
them are BIG books. Anyone who thinks that amount of material can be
condensed into a single film is living in la la land. I knew going in
that this was going to be a cheap attempt at making money off of
Stephen Kings name and the popularity of The Dark Tower series and
that's exactly what it was. The Dark Tower series is one of my all time
favorite book series, as is Lord of the Rings, and this film is
literally a bad joke compared to the source material. How they got
Matthew McConaughey to sign on to this film when he has had such an
amazing run the last 4-5 years is simply beyond my understanding. I
will never understand how such an amazing writer has had so many
terrible films made from his books. Bottom line - this was a terrible film, one that does no justice to the
source material at all. If your a fan of the Dark Tower books, do
yourself a HUGE favor and skip this film. Its like a bad joke of the
Dark Tower universe. Everyone involved with this film should be ashamed
of being a part of it. The only reason I saw it is because I have a
nephew than basically begged me to take him to see it and I have to
admit, part of me was curious to see just how bad it really was and in
that regard it didn't disappoint. It was just as bad as I expected it
to be. This is Hollywood garbage, nothing more and nothing less. Do
yourself a favor and put your money elsewhere.
