9
It ain't ran out of gas!

Fate of the Furious, the eight installment of the mindless, crazed up
action flick has proved itself that the franchise never ran out of gas.
There's over the top action scene, there's some mindless story, and
there's Vin Diesel talking about family over and over again. Those
things are what makes us coming back for more, and this is no
exception.The story follows Dom Toretto who betrays his family to work for
Cipher, and his team's attempt to stop him. Vin Diesel has firmly
stated that this movie "may earn a Oscar for it's acting", Maybe he's
right because the acting is probably the best in the franchise. There
were times where I'm surprised by Vin Diesel's acting. I also had a
tear in my eye for no reason (damn those ninja cutting onions...)
Charlize Theron is amazing as someone who's a menacing foe that you
love to hate. The Rock, Jason Statham, Michelle Rodriguez, Ludicrous,
Tyrese, Kurt Russell, and Nathalie Emmanuel reprises their roles and
they did a good job as well, especially The Rock, Statham and Michelle
Rodriguez. Scott Eastwood and Helen Mirren are great and a welcome
addition to the franchise. There's also some surprise appearances and
they are great as well.The story... you definitely need no explanation for this. As always:
it's stupid, in a good way of course. The story ties into Fast &
Furious 6, and Furious 7, so for newcomers to the franchise, you may
get confused a bit. The film also uses plot twists, which were greatly
executed. There were some well placed funny moments and there's also
some depressing moments as well. The movie also serves as the first in
the final trilogy of the franchise. How the story goes later, we'll
just wait for the ninth installment, which definitely will arrive soon
enough.The action, needless to say, is as crazy as in Furious 7, or maybe
more. Taking insanity to the next level, these action scenes is either
get you pumped out for what happens next, or making you shake your head
for it's absurdity. Just don't relate to science or the law of physics,
because those things don't apply to this movie.However, the movie somehow felt hollow. There's something that's
missing from the movie that prevents me from fully enjoying the movie.
The lack of Paul Walker in the movie probably causes this. Referencing
Brian and Mia in the movie ain't help either. Plot holes were present
in the movie as well. Someone dies in the movie, but their deaths don't
do justice (he/she died, he/she avenge his/her death, and that's it).
And there's some CGI noticeable throughout the movie (which is a
shame).Regardless, Fate of the Furious is a movie with a stupid story,
ridiculous action sequences, and Vin Diesel talking about family, which
were bad, in a good way. Don't expect a really good story, or some
logical action scene, because you'll ended up disappointed by the end
of this movie. And for those "fans" who said: "Remember when it's all
about racing", face it, Fast & Furious ain't returning fully to it's
roots. If you don't like the change then you'll definitely don't like
this movie. For anyone else who like fast cars, mindless action fun,
get a ticket, have a seat and enjoy the ride.
