8
The Creation Of a Better Prequel!

So many years ago, the Conjuring dropped into theaters and opened up a
movie universe that would bestow nightmares to the audience members who
saw it. This weekend, the latest installment in this haunted world with
Annabelle Creation. A prequel to the last film, this possessed doll
continues to be a popular figure head in the occult series to warrant
another film. Is this film a fitting addition to the franchise, or is
it another money grabber fit to be lost in the horror archives? Robbie
K here to help answer those questions and share some thoughts. Let's
get to work. LIKES: Answers Questions: The first Annabelle gave the doll some basis and
established her deadly legacy, but it lacked any true backstory of her
creation. The prequel, as so titled, helped fill in the creation story
and establish the origin to its possession. As the film progresses,
more of the Annabelle's journey is revealed, alongside a closer look at
the creature that uses it as a puppet. While not fully complete, we now
have the connections needed to make sense of the first movie, and
further engross us in the universe. Unfortunately, the name, the
involvement, and other details of the demons still remain unanswered,
but can be extrapolated with a dialogue hints. The Pace: Horror movies can have pacing issues at time depending on the
story. Fortunately, Annabelle Creation's moves at a decent pace to
maximize the movie. Slow enough to provide build up for the scares, but
fast enough to keep everything moving and on edge, the production team
did a nice job keeping you invested in the movie. There is little time
between all the craziness, with just enough comedic relief to relieve
the tension and keep things interesting. Scares: I guess we need to talk about the main element you go for these
movies huh? The scare factor is at an all-time high in this movie,
continuing the Conjuring's legacy of keeping things dynamic, fun, and
suspenseful. Annabelle's creepy on so many levels, starting with the
realistic setting to place the movie in. That realism and the use of
shadows has your imagination on fire trying to fill in the gaps of what
lurks in the dark. Once the subtle components are set, you can bet
there a number of creepy tricks played in this film, alongside the
fleeting glimpses of the demon that terrorizes the family in his cruel
game. And of course, there is that doll. It's soulless stare and
deceiving smile continue to give me the willies, and had a number of
audience members using colorful language before involuntary rising from
their seats. DISLIKES:Character stories: The movie had a lot of characters to play in our
haunted setting. The protagonists of the film held a lot of potential
to develop as characters, and unfortunately, they failed on that level.
Sure, you can piece together the simple origins placed before you, but
I would have liked more insight into the girls' origins or perhaps a
little more integration of Bee into the writing to help maximize
scares. With the conjuring able to unearth their demons and dreams in a
quality manner, Annabelle should be able to mimic that magic. Scares do
not equal perfect horror movie. Pointless characters: Remember the big family in the Conjuring and how
each sibling, parent, and exorcist were part of the tale in some way.
That's gone too. Annabelle Conjuring brought a large group into the
home, but only about four-five of them have any real involvement in the
plot. The underutilization of these characters tripped up the plot,
made for ridiculous scenes that didn't have as much importance, and
really left me asking, what was their point. One girl has just one line
and a few stares at the camera. Why include them if you aren't going to
use them to develop the characters, or at least try to work together to
escape the demon's wrath. Predictability: Scares are getting easier to predict in this day and
age. This is mostly due to the development team throwing their usual
tactics into the mix to warn you of the impending jump scare. Annabelle
Conjuring doesn't escape this trend and much of the scares can be seen
a mile away in some form or manner. While there are a few moments that
were good tries, the tactics got repetitive and/or cheesy to be
laughable rather than fearful. Fortunately, some creepy special effects
and the darkness offset this enough to still get under your skin
thanks religion nightmare inducing series. The Verdict:Overall, Annabelle Creation is one of the better horror movies of the
summer and perhaps this year. It is dark, creepy, and moves at that
pace needed to keep you invested in the movie for the two-hour run
time. In addition, the filling in gaps and hints start to connect the
world (a very popular trend), which will have you die hard horror fans
screaming in delight at both scares and plot. Yet, there are still
elements of the story telling to clean up and utilizing your characters
you bring in is a big step to improve on. In addition, I hope the next
installment forgoes the predictable moves and gives us that kick I
haven't seen yet. Considering everything, this reviewer recommends a
visit to the theater for this one, assuming you are disturbed by
spiritual haunting movies. My scores: Horror/Mystery/Thriller: 8.5 Movie Overall: 7.0P.S. Stay for the end of the credits for some teasing.
