10
The Dramedy Of The Year

I have been a fan of director Noah Baumbach ever since his work on
films like Greenberg and Frances Ha. Continuing his talented ways, I
found myself really enjoying his work when I came across the film While
We're Young back in 2014, but I must admit that his newest mark on the
industry may just be my favourite film that I've seen of his. The
Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected) isn't wide enough of a release to
score any big awards this year, but if that wasn't such a factor, I
feel as though this movie deserves a few nods. Now streaming on
Netflix, here is why I'll be giving this film a glowing recommendation. There's just something special about a movie that mirrors reality, in
that it takes itself very seriously, while still giving many laughs to
its audience in order to provide levity. Following a family that
reunites due to an illness of a relative, this really is a tale about
sibling rivalry and the fact that it really shouldn't be a thing. I
found myself entranced throughout this entire film, feeling as though I
was watching someone provide insight into real events, and for all I
know Noah Baumbach could've written this about his own experiences, but
I just have to give him props for his terrific screenplay here. It's not very often that a fantastic film stars Adam Sandler, but I'll
admit it when I see it. He knew how to choose a good project here and
he clearly cares about the material at hand, because he is 100% devoted
to this character. He and Ben Stiller both deliver wonderful
performance as step brothers and throughout certain portions of this
movie, I felt as though they were growing a bond in real life. Movies
like this don't come around very often, and I feel are unappreciated
when they finally do. A story about family is very hard to accomplish,
especially when you're trying to make it feel as real as possible, but
I feel The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected) nails it. Not to compare the two in any way, but I love Aaron Sorkin's screen
writing and when it comes to his dialogue, I honestly don't think it
can be topped in today's day in age, but Noah Baumbach definitely gives
him a run for his money here. Never once did I find myself bored, and
when a movie is just a series of sequences with people talking, that
can be hard to keep audiences engaged, but I feel this movie
accomplishes that nearly impossible feat. From the way a character
reacts, to a memory that's being explained from their past, to a
revelation they have, opening up to a crowd standing in front of them,
this screenplay really goes for it. In the end, with a screenplay as terrific as this one, having a cast as
talented as it does, with addition of applause-worthy direction, and a
satisfying conclusion, I really can't complain about this movie all
that much. Aside from a few awkward moments in editing that will
definitely take certain viewers out, I found them to be oddly
fascinating, so I have nothing but praise for The Meyerowitz Stories
(New and Selected) from my end. This movie is now on Netflix for the
world to see and I can't recommend it enough.
