7
A fine film but not worthy of winning Best Picture

Going into 'Spotlight' I was aware that it was the front runner to win
Best PIcture at the Academy Awards. After having seen it I can't really
understand why. That's not to say it wasn't a good film, it simply
didn't blow me away at all. It told a story, an admittedly fascinating
and true story, in an informative way but it didn't do anything that
great films do like inspire me, move me or leave me stunned with the
powerful nature it was told with. Best Picture winners of the past,
like 'Schindler's List', told true stories but also encompassed all
three of those traits and plenty more. That was a film I will never
forget, 'Spotlight' will probably be completely out of my mind by this
time next week. Frankly, I was a little underwhelmed with the lack of
emotion such a serious subject brought out in me. The film just didn't
really seem to try to do that. It felt more like a documentary
reenactment, simply with very fine actors, than anything else.My disagreement with it likely winning Best Picture aside, there are
some very fine filmmaking skills on show here in all departments.
Director Tom McCarthy, in only his fifth turn at directing, has been
nominated for a Best Directing award. While I don't like the lack of
emotion his storytelling brought out in me, he clearly had a vision to
tell a story in a certain way, and he got it done. He tells it in a
punchy fashion that never allows the audience to drift off. The Best
Directing race this year is a tight one with four of the five all being
widely in contention. I don't think McCarthy will get the win however,
as his film doesn't have the "X-Factor" going for it that a lot of the
others do. Having said that, any film that wins Best Picture has to get
some real credit for its director, so don't completely rule him out if
it does indeed win that.Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams have also been nominated for Best
Supporting Actor and Actress awards. I have trouble understanding how,
to again be frank. Roles based on real life characters always get more
attention than others but these two had absolutely nothing to work with
in the script. They were almost never given a chance to shine in any
scene. Because of this I don't believe either has a chance of winning
their respective award. It wasn't a film designed to make actors look
good. Having said that, the stand out performance for me was Michael
Keaton. He almost won the Best Actor award last year and this year
can't even get a nomination. Had his been considered a Supporting Role
I'm sure he would have but it was probably considered in that "in
between" state, which may have hurt him.There are a lot of true stories at this year's Acadmey Awards and I
think 'Spotlight' is benefiting from being the most interesting story
of them all. 'The Big Short' is another case of an interesting true
story, however that was told in a very unique and clever way.
Interestingly, that is the biggest competition 'Spotlight' will have
when the winner is read out on the night. My fingers might just be
crossed on the seeing the upset.
