8
A Bold, Powerful and Beautiful Film

A Ghost Story marks David Lowry's return to cinema since his 2013 indie
hit "Ain't Them Bodies Saints". Telling the story of a young couple
(Casey Affleck and Rooney Mara) who buy a home and plan to start a life
together in it until tragedy strikes. The Man suddenly dies and leaves
the wife to fend for herself and build a life in the house by herself
instead of with the man she loves. All while she is going through this
in reality, the Man begins to haunt the home in a classical white sheet
donning way. Throughout the years of being trapped to haunt this home,
The Ghost also has to witness the love of his past life continue on
without him and experience the moments of life without him. It is a
beautiful and heart wrenching film that delves deeper into what grief
does to not only a person but to a ghost.Whether you believe in an after life or not, A Ghost Story isn't
worried about your beliefs. It plays out like a fantasy and that's how
it stays which really bodes well for it. It never reaches beyond what
is happening with the Man and the Woman and, of course, the House
(which becomes a character in and of itself). David Lowry does a great
job at setting up a "what if" scenario that all you can do is ask
yourself, "what would I do in this situation?" The scariest part of
that is there is literally nothing you can do. That rationalization is
probably scarier than most horror films out today. The film itself is a very digestible 90 minutes which is of a perfect
length for this film because it doesn't go overboard and forget what it
is. It's a horror film that is light on scares but heavy on thoughts
and brains. There's no real scares. The big scare is putting yourself
in the shoes of the ghost. What would you do if you had to witness your
loved one go through grief and you couldn't do anything about it? You
couldn't comfort them. You couldn't hold them. You could just watch.
What if the person you loved moved on from you? What if they forget
you? These questions are what made A Ghost Story scary for me. The
level of helplessness that the film portrays is horrifying enough to
remind audiences that death is still scary.Overall, the film is an experimental ghost story that shows Lowry in
top form both as a writer and a director. The crass nature of reality
is that death is lonely and he captures that perfectly. While many who
take a look at the poster will certainly think that the film is just
another horror movie trying to capitalize on some paranormal money, A
Ghost Story is much more than that. It is beautiful to watch, heart
wrenching to experience and an absolute delight cinematically.
