5
Put Down the Kool-Aid

Given the outright gushing of critics in praising this film, I was
quite surprised to discover Dunkirk to be not only not deserving of
such praise, but even worse, to be a cacophony of minimalist nonsense,
topped off by one of the most ridiculous film climaxes in recent memory
(more on that later). "Possibly the best war film of all time?" Not
quite, I could name dozens better. In fact I struggle to think of many
that are worse than this. My goodness, where to begin...First I do not understand where the $150 million budget was spent. The
actual story of the Dunkirk evacuation involved - literally - hundreds
of thousands of men, and hundreds of boats and planes. In this film, we
see....a few hundred men? 30 boats? Something like six planes? Where is
the grand scale that a story like Dunkirk deserves, or really, demands?
There was no grand scale. That is a heinous omission and oversight and
ultimately fails to tell the story of Dunkirk as it should be told. And
if you don't want to use CGI to achieve that scale, that's fine, but
then either expand the real numbers of extras and props so it
replicates what Dunkirk was actually like, or, don't do the film. A few
soldiers standing around on the beach looks incredibly silly when the
characters say on more than one occasion that there are over 300,000
men there. Where are they? We never saw them. Ludicrous.Similarly, we see a few boats here and there, and a few planes. This
does not come close to approximating the flotilla of ships, boats and
other watercraft used - in reality over 800. It's hard to appreciate
what a tremendous achievement the Dunkirk evacuation was - ultimately,
the aim of this film I suspect - when we never actually see that
achievement occur. We see a few boats and few planes. Literally a drop
in the bucket of what Dunkirk was. Yet at the conclusion, as the men
are disembarking, back safe in England, we are supposed to be swept up
in a swelling feeling of appreciation for something that we never
actually witness. Very bizarre.The soundtrack, if you can call it that, was an escalating collection
of random and intrusive blaring instruments that can be best described
as 'noise.' I have no idea what the goal was there. Perhaps it was an
attempt to convey what one might feel, the intense experience one might
have, if he or she was in a war-time situation like this. Perhaps. A
professional critic called it 'bombastic' and that's probably being
generous. I am not lying when I tell you I had to take an Advil when I
got back from the theater, thanks to the crazily escalating noise that
overwhelms the latter part of the film. Yikes.As for the climax, the scene of a Spitfire seemingly free of the laws
of physics and gravity is bereft of all logic, and was such an
eye-rolling piece of nonsense, no amount of criticism on my part can do
it justice. Let's just say planes cannot keep flying indefinitely, much
less maneuver and successfully engage other aircraft, when that plane
has run out of fuel. The film deserves to be panned for this ridiculous
scene alone.This is not a great war film, it's not even a good war film. It is not
typical or traditional story-telling, I will give it that. There are
stretches of this film that lack dialogue and there is zero character
development. While different, that's hardly unique (it's been done
before). Perhaps some critics haven't understood that 'different' does
not automatically translate to 'good' or 'great' - sometimes, it does
not.Put down the Kool-Aid. As my brother said to me when we walked out of
the theater last night, "Assuming I would like this, I thought I would
go see this again over the weekend. Not only am I not doing that now, I
won't even bother watching this once it's on cable or Netflix." True
that, bro. 5/10.
