6
Is the Purge: Election Year, watchable? I voted yes. Still, it's a bit meh.

Like I say before, I don't get how the Purge, honestly works in this
films. Killing the poor doesn't make the economy great. It makes it
worse, as there is less people to work and run the rich people's
companies. I guess, we can say, the government of the New Founding
Fathers of America (NFFA) were lying, about the purge working, but it
doesn't explain why people would go along with this, for so long!?
Also, it doesn't explain, why people would wait to vent their negative
emotions for one day that crime is all legal, and emergency service are
suspended, instead of the other 364 days. Anger, Lust, and Greed is an
impulse reaction that most human cannot control, even if some of the
purgers is highly train and uber-religionist. People will act upon
their dark side, no matter if it's the day of the purge or not. It also
doesn't explain, how crazy people with mental instability, are able to
wait for the Purge to commit crimes. It doesn't add up. There should be
always going to be rule-breakers and people that act on impulse. Yet,
the movie acts like, there isn't, besides few minor crimes. Still, I
think this sequel directed and written by James DeMonaco, does a better
job than the original 2013's 'Purge', in showing that a world with the
Purge could existed. However, like its predecessor, 2014's 'The Purge:
Anarchy'; "Purge: Election Year' open new plot-holes that it cannot
close. Good examples are like how foreign fighters are allow to purge
and how anti-purgers, Americans just doesn't leave the country. Also,
since the country is in total chaos. What stopping any foreign country
from commanding a direct military invasion, during it and taking over?
I just think, the purge is too outrageous to honestly work. This film
was originally intended to be a prequel, telling the story of how the
very first Purge got started, but this idea was scrapped when Frank
Grillo accepted James DeMonaco's offer to reprise the character of
Sergeant Leo Barnes. Still, as a franchise, I like how the Purge series
has evolved from a generic house invasion movie to semi-OK, action
thriller. All of the outdoor night action scenes were great, with
everybody pulling their weight. It's nice to see Frank Grillo return,
as he was amazing in every sequence, he was in. Also, it looks like his
character, discovered the fountain of youth, because he doesn't look
like he aged in 18 years. Yet, some of the violent action was a bit
over the top, and highly sexism. Plus, I don't think the movie knows,
how political works as well. Let's just say, somehow the Purge; a 12
hour time-period where most crime including murder is legal was able to
be, passed by Constitutional Amendment. That means, for Senator Charlie
Roan (Elizabeth Mitchell), she doesn't had to be, president to stop the
purge. She just have to get congress and 2/3 majority of State
Legislatures to repeal the Amendment. So why is she running for
President!? As commander in chief, she really has no power to stop
that. Also, her running for president, doesn't make any sense in this
world; seeing how the NFFA overthrows the old government and establish
a new totalitarian government and a police state. So why is there, even
an election? Even if there was, seeing how election-day has been moved
from November to May, that means that the NFFA has unprecedented
control over all three branches of government. There is no way that she
can become president. Unless, something big happen, between the
eighteen years since the last movie's events and this film, in the
world of politics, in which this movie doesn't mention. So, I don't get
why the NFFA felt the need to assassinate her. While, I champion 'the
Purge' series for furthers shifting away from being a straight horror
film franchise with its offering an allegory about where our nation
might be headed. I just wish the discussion of politics,
socioeconomics, sexism, racism, were just a little better told. Don't
get me wrong, the film is entertaining, but it's not very smart. It
delivers the issues with irritatingly broad simplistic. It kinda
shallows. In essence, DeMonaco's so-called political satire of the
2016's presidential election is also not that good. It's not really
that subtle in which, this movie is trying to jab at. The over the top
acting from some of these craze villains are so annoying bad, that it's
bad, in an unwatchable sake. The movie still mostly works, despite
that, since most of them, meet their ends. However, I don't think they
had great reasons to dress up and purge. A good example is Kimmy
(Brittany Mirable), the leader of the teenage girl purgers. Her reason
for purging is just because of a candy bar. I get that she's crazy, but
what type of a crew would follow her. Who would risk, their life for
her, for something so mundane!? It's not well-define. The good guy
supporting characters are also not well-define, besides Dante Bishop
(Edwin Hodge). Don't get me wrong, they're very likable, but gees, they
make really bad decisions. The worst, had to be, Joe Dixon (Mykelti
Williamson), the proud but struggling owner of a convenience store who
agrees to abandon his deli after a raid, only for later to try to
return to it. Why would he do that? Because of decisions like that, the
plot structure for this film, plays out, very oddly. I don't get how
the government was able to find and attack the hideout of some of the
heroes of the story, yet doesn't know nor warn the NFFA leaders, about
the rebels' plans, afterward. I just wish, the movie did better in the
story structure. Something similar to how 1967 Star Trek, Season 1,
Episode 21, 'Return of the Archons' did theirs. Overall: 'The Purge:
Election Year' is a thrill-ride, worth taking. It's not too much of an
oaf in office.
