8
A story of trashy criminals and dirty cops evolving into one about fathers and sons and life

What he have here is a story about fathers and their sons. In fact,
three separate stories - each one leads into the next. A lesser movie
would have just told one story, but "The Place Beyond the Pines" is
larger in scope and needs all three parts to tell the complete story. A
life is not just about your life but those you affect and those you
leave behind for years to come.The first father is Luke (Ryan Gosling) who didn't know he had a son
until a girl whose name he happens to remember shows up with a one
year- old son. Prior to that moment he was a daredevil with no
ambitions, no money, and no care for his life. Now he's a father. A
father with no money nor job. Wearing a dirty, inside-out, torn t-shirt
and tattoos covering his arms, neck and face, he is the epitome of
trash. But you know, the quiet, reserved, soulful, good-looking trash.
And now that he's a father, he's going to care for his son however he
can. He hooks up with his partner in crime, literally - Robin (Ben
Mendelsohn). Together they are like a Hall & Oates version of Bonnie
and Clyde.In Schenectady, New York - the place beyond the pines - the only thing
dirtier than the trashy criminals are the cops themselves. And then the
second father is introduced. The character of Avery (Bradley Cooper) is
carefully crafted into what should be the greatest human being on
planet Earth. And he's a cop. And he's a father. And he's a son to a
father who might have been but probably wasn't the greatest human being
on planet Earth.The film went for editing and filming styles to echo the characters'
situations and actions. You can guess what that would look like when
Gosling is racing through the forest on his motorcycle. But as we
approach the more expansive ending, there are some beautiful shots of
the trees lining Schenectady's countryside roads. That works
particularly well with Cooper giving a remarkable performance of Avery
constantly coming to grips with his life.The final act tells a story very different from, but completely
connected to, the two that came before it. It could have been tightened
up a bit, but "The Place Beyond the Pines" isn't telling a quick story.
It's telling the story of multiple lives, of death, family, love,
honour and obedience. Employing overall themes of revenge, ambition,
and what it means to be a father, and a son. I say it succeeds in its
larger scope, even if it doesn't just tell a story the way one would
want it to.
