6
Weak Take on Great Romantic Comedy Story

The Vow was made for the Valentine's Day audience. As I went into this
movie on the evening of February 14th, the theatre was packed with
couples. This movie gave them exactly what they paid for. There were
plenty of cute moments that make you say, "ahhhhhh." There strange
nostalgic moments that makes you realize exactly how much time Rachel
McAdams forgot (wait for the moment when she turns to Channing Tatum
and asks him who the President of the United States is).This movie delivered for the audience at large. But several problems
persist. For such a unique perspective on memory loss, The Vow falls
into the flow of the average romantic comedy. As the core of the
storyline develops (which strangely reminds me of Terri Schiavo), I
can't help but feel like I have seen this before. There were so many
interesting possibilities that a memory-loss movie could pursue.
Instead, the writing team (which is known for big star movies such as
He's Just Not That Into You and Valentine's Day) decides to take the
safe route. The writing team stops this movie from being great.Despite its problems, The Vow relies heavily on its actors. With Rachel
McAdams, Channing Tatum, Sam Neill, and Scott Speedman (who I still see
as the romantic interest from the TV hit "Felicity), relying so heavily
on your actors is perfectly alright. Rachel McAdams and Channing Tatum
have a chemistry that I didn't expect. This chemistry drives the
storyline forwards and leads to several dramatic and hilarious scenes
that will surprise you.I need to make a note about movies that are "Based on a True Story."
It's difficult to take these story lines at face value. By basing a
story on true events, the producers are hoping that you will not look
too far into the plausibility of the situation. When you compare the
movie with the true events, however, the differences are immense.
Namely, the movie makes the crash result in one problem: the loss of
several years of memories. In reality, the woman what badly hurt and
also suffered from severe short term memory loss. The possibility of
losing several years of memories and not haven't any other physical
side-effects (aside form a tiny scar around her eyes) is almost
entirely impossible.The Vow is cute enough to enjoy at face-value. If you are looking for a
movie to simply enjoy and not think too deeply, this is the movie for
you. 2012 has been an awful year for Romantic Comedies. One for the
Money was dreadful. This Means War promises to be almost as bad. If you
are pining for a romantic comedy, this will fill your appetite until
the first great one of the year is released. Looking over the list of
romantic comedies to be released, however, there isn't much. My money
is on the new American Pie movie.
