7
The Campaign (2012) - He Just Punched a Baby!

Two comedic favorites Will Ferrell and Zach Galifanakis finally share
the screen together in "The Campaign". Although being casted in their
usual and cliché roles; Ferrell as a competitive mindless idiot that's
considered the best at everything, and Galifanakis as a weird, but
likable sweater vest-wearing dork; these two still share a decent
chemistry in a movie that's although not a perfect comedy as you'd
expect it to be, it's still a pretty decent comedy, that consistently
hits the funny bone, sometimes in the right places. Ferrell plays Cam
Brady, a presidential candidate that has never lost a single campaign
in his life, and is now running for the fifth term. But then, out of
the blue, to actually give Brady some competition, Galifanakis' Marty
Huggins is volunteered to run for Congress. It then leads into one of
the deadliest campaigns ever seen on the face of the earth. Although
"The Campaign" doesn't reach the level of complete comedic gold,
director Jay Roach was able to bring in some consistent funny moments
that are more worthy of a giggle, rather than "bursting to tears" kind
of laughs. I was really expecting more from Will Ferrell, who seems to
be tiring in his cliché role, and I felt that it was really hard to
feel sympathy for this character, because he's the only un-likable
person throughout. I guess I had more sympathy for Galifanakis'
character, because not only was he funny, but he was also the only
person that I actually cared about. But aside from the two male leads,
Jason Sudeikis, Dylan McDermott, John Lithgow, Dan Aykroyd, and Brian
Cox round up the supporting cast, most of them delivering some decent
enough performances. I say most of them, because Dylan McDermott's
contribution as Marty's campaign manager seemed wasted in the role, and
didn't really steal the scenes as everyone said he would. I honestly
think that this guy wasn't really that funny. Although half of the
jokes sadly fall flat, the other half is filled with one hilarious
scene after the next. From the scene with Marty Huggin's family at the
dinner table, to Cam accidentally punching a baby at a campaign party.
This proves that there are scenes that help save this movie from being
a bad one. Although at it's noticeable flaws, "The Campaign" is still a
decent and pretty funny movie that has a clear perspective on what it
was trying to be. "The Campaign", in my review, "laughable and
enjoying, but hardly anything special".
