10
Nichols nails it again with Mud

Jeff Nichols has done it again. The writer/director's latest creation,
Mud, is as beautifully shot and soulfully written as his last feature,
Take Shelter (see the Take Shelter review from December 2011), which I
absolutely loved. And although the two films' plots are quite
different, their territory is familiar; with Mud, Nichols again
explores ideas of perception, and how our experiences and belief
systems inform our take on reality.Mud has also been found (by many a reviewer) to share turf with the
works of Mark Twain혰in particular, the escapes and escapades of two
adventuresome young boys, Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn. The movie is
about 14-year-olds Ellis (Tye Sheridan) and Neckbone (Jacob Lofland),
who go exploring in their boat and come upon a fugitive living on an
island on the Mississippi River.The fugitive's name is Mud (Matthew McConaughey), and that fact, along
with his disheveled look (complete with snaggletooth and hand-knotted
hair) and freewheeling lifestyle (he sleeps in a boat lodged in a
tree), not to mention his whimsical, childlike quality, almost make you
wonder at first whether the character is imagined by the two boys. Mud
certainly matches them혰and Ellis in particular혰in his raw emotion and
fierce stubbornness.You wouldn't blame Ellis if he had constructed such a character. The
boy's life seems to be sinking beneath him, as he faces his parents'
separation and an impending move to the city, away from his beloved
home on the river.Ellis is also discovering girls. He's got his eye on an older high
schooler named May Pearl (Bonnie Sturdivant). And no matter how
careless she is with his heart, it seems to belong irrevocably to her.
Love and romance are lifelines for Ellis, and as he gets hit by a wave
of change, he clings desperately to them.So when Ellis learns that Mud's crimes were committed in the name of
love for his sweetheart, Juniper (Reese Witherspoon), he does
everything he can to reunite the pair, even if it means butting heads
(or fists and heads) with the bounty hunters who are hot on Mud's
trail. Neckbone, of course, comes along for the boat ride.Mud is a special film that paints fairytale and coming of age with a
slightly sinister brush. Its darker hues and fantastical tones remind
me of several other great movies about children at odds with growing
up: Where the Wild Things Are, Moonrise Kingdom, Winter's Bone and even
Son of Rambow.The film is full of gorgeous imagery (flowing down the river; slowing
long enough to linger on scrambling spiders or sun-streaked plants) and
golden nuggets of truth and humour.It's also buoyed by exceptional performances. In particular, Sheridan,
who debuted in Terrence Malick's The Tree of Life, Lofland, in his
first movie role, and McConaughey, who uses Mud to further his habit of
delivering ever-better performances.I saw the film with two good friends, LG and TG. As we were leaving the
theatre, TG asked whether Take Shelter depicted women as negatively as
did Mud. I was too tired to get into it at the time, but I'll say now
that I don't think Mud ultimately does portray women in a poor light.
Ellis' mother is revealed to be the stronger, more responsible parent.
Juniper is redeemed. And although May Pearl is no gem, we see glimmers
of brighter treasures to be found.In the end, Mud suggests the promise of greatness혰in love, but also in
adventure, discovery and friendship. Ellis is left with hope, and so
are we.
