2
Did they understand why people loved Death note ?

First, I don't care about the whitewashing, or the shinigami lore...
Death note was not great because it was set in Japan but because those
who made the manga did an intense thriller with some great
philosophical point !In the manga Light is an brilliant young man, with an opportunity to
change the world and a desire to maintain a legacy and not get caught.
We got a strong moral code and think that he is in the right ! Well,
this new Light didn't planned anything ahead (expect the god awful deus
ex machina at the end...), has a boring cliché teenage angst, kills
people because that seems a thrilling thing to do with his girlfriend
(more on her in a second), decides to stop at the first sign of
trouble, and is incapable of being active but only reacts to things
happening to him. He didn't even seems to think that the police might
try to catch him.The girlfriend (not in the source material, and it's easy to know why).
Well, she doesn't have any kind of personality. she seems to live on
instinct, with no moral code whatsoever. why it doesn't work ? Because
she's supposed to be a part of Light, that made Light doubt and
hesitate ! Now we have TWO empty main characters instead of one
full-fledged brilliant one.The narration, I know, I know, American critics find that lazy,
cinemasins sins it, and most of the time narration is the worst... MOST
OF THE TIME. In death note, narration is Light internal monologue,
which is essential to understand this complex character who tries to be
ahead of everything. It's the source of the tension in the anime and
they took that away. Narration in Mr Robot is great ! It's possible you
see !Because of that, everything else falls apart, Ruyk isn't the big
corrupting menace that Pollutes Light's moral code, he is just
monster-scary.. and L, seems smarter then Light at every turn, (the
dinner scene is the most revealing, did someone understand the
complexity of both arguments ? )... instead of a brilliant
cat-and-mouse we got a pair of teenagers way over their heads who tries
to make-up a plan to escape from the police ! American adaptation don't
have to dumb down every plot to an Halloween special of CSI !!!And to my summary, why call the movie death note when you don't even
understand the soul of the source material ? Lingering "why ?" Thoughts : - the over-complicated weirdly irrelevant
rules of the death note - L zero-in on Light the dumbest way possible
(really ? the father on a press conference) - L knows exactly that the
team has been compromised but didn't think to plan something to avoid
that outcome - the useless love-story - the acting - the relationship
between father and son Why not make it as a series that could encompass the complexity of each
character instead of a trainwreck of a movie ?
