6
Still enjoyable with some uncomfortable caveats

As soon as I completed my viewing of The LEGO Batman Movie back in
February, I had some expectations that this film would continue the
tradition of using a "style" for more than a plug for LEGOs themselves.
I have to say that after viewing this, I was half correct. It seemed
from the start that the odds against this film were high given how
Ninjago is less recognizable than Batman, however it managed to in its
own right be enjoyable. The morals rehash those in The LEGO Batman
Movie, though it does add its own messages that I don't feel like
spoiling as to not give away this film's identity. One of the main
complaints I have here is that while the story does offer with its
writing some good jokes, the execution of some things such as the
timing was significantly downgraded from The LEGO Batman Movie. The
animation offered some necessary changes to make it closer to a
believable Ninjago movie, such as the integration of live-action and
the use of more realistic special effects like water and smoke, but I
would prefer The LEGO Batman Movie since it knew more when to use only
LEGOs and when to throw in real effects; it made the action scenes more
engaging. The characters are more obscure than in its "predecessor",
again owing to the simple fact that Batman is more popular than
Ninjago, and thus would not be easily identifiable unless you watched
the Ninjago series (like Masters of Spinjitzu as I did). One thing I do
appreciate is that they gave Garmadon more personality than just some
evil villain as I remember, though it could also owe to the fact that I
have not seen any Ninjago material for years. To sum up, this is
essentially an inferior version of The LEGO Batman Movie with less
successful humor and a more specific appeal: to Ninjago fans. If you
are one of the latter, you will enjoy this film with the twists it
placed on the franchise's core characters, but for anyone else (even
LEGO fans) I would advise a reasonable amount of caution in case you
possess intrigue.
