1
Sorry, there is no king here.

King Kong (1933) was a perfect movie in its proposal. A simple, direct
and clear message. No remakes or sequels required. This is why all
sequels and remakes are always inferior in impact to the original.
Filmmakers always want to add anything new and unnecessary. In this new film, Kong leaves the territory of quality and embarks on a
trip to the territory of blockbusters, in other words, special effects
and jokes (just watch the retarded and unnecessary joke scene about the
Skullcrawlers name with Hiddleston, Larson and John C. Reilly) overlap
the story, and so the film is passable and totally forgettable in a
week.Once again, Hollywood treats scientists as idiots when the character of
Corey Hawkins can not even open a can of canned food and feels
intimidated by a woman. Not to mention the macho colonel, who wants an
unnecessary revenge with Kong, because Kong killed his men (in a casual
meeting).And not to mention the idiotic plans that Jordan Vogt-Roberts uses to
focus the eyes of the Samuel L. Jackson character with the eyes of King
Kong. It seems like the director Jordan Vogt-Roberts wants to make a
kind of (unnecessary) fight in the old west style. Pure waste of time,
as we know that the macho colonel, is no challenge for Kong, so why
waste precious screen time with these situations? Because Kong's story
can be told as in the original in just 90 or 100 minutes. And the
filmmarkers have to put 2 hours of film and for this they have to put
unnecessary situations and scenes. As the disposable soldier of the colonel, who gets lost from the group,
just to see Kong crush a giant squid (and then Kong eats it), then
after some scenes, be killed by another giant monster. What could be an
interesting conflict between the characters of Tom Hiddleston and
Samuel L. Jackson, but that ends up in nothing. Because people are
written from a stupid one-dimensional way (like the stupid macho
colonel). That is, more movie time, for less story. This is because
Kong never leaves the island in this movie, Kong will only leave the
island in 2020 in the movie Godzilla vs. King Kong. Yes this movie aims
to create another shared universe (MCU type of crap), and in the end
this compromises the quality of this film. The filmmakers have their
hands tied, because they can not put their best on this film, however
they have to think how this movie will work with another movie from
another guy, three long years into the future.I went into the movie hoping to see a good and fun Kong movie, and I
ended up seeing a crap and bad one, because of the ambition of the
studio that compromised the quality of the movie, for the money. Not to
mention, even as a fun movie, this movie fails so much. You see, the scenes with special effects, you can see that the scenes
were all filmed on a green screen. And the final fight between Kong and
the giant lizard is even inferior to the T-rex fights in Peter
Jackson's 2005 remake. Yes, the fights and clashes between Kong and the
other giants monsters were better, bigger, more epic, more brutal and
vicarious than in this pathetic 2017 movie. I'm not defending the Peter
Jackson movie, that film obviously had its flaws, but in the department
of special effects and action scenes (this department that does not
save a movie, nonetheless) is vastly superior to this Jordan Vogt-
Roberts movie. Even as an action movie and blockbuster, this movie
fails in a big way.But if you were disappointed, and if you were sad that you had lost
money unfairly, you can wait until 2020 to see the rest of the film in
Godzilla VS King Kong.My God, that's why commercial filmmaking is in the mud. The commercial
cinema has as main target children, teenagers and young people. And
this is why the quality bar is so low.
