8
8/10

The only word that keeps coming back to mind when reviewing this movie
is: exhilarating. The fun factor this amazing action film has is
probably the highest of any movie this year. I could not stop myself
from having a blast!First and foremost, being also the first thing you notice, "John Wick"
is self-conscious of what it is and doesn't, for not even one second,
take itself more seriously than it should. Fortunately this doesn't
shut out the place for character connection and empathy. People often
think the two of these things exclude themselves, but that is not what
I think and this movie is proof of it. It has such a genuine sense of
fun and humor, so much so that you are often laughing WITH (not AT) the
movie at the preposterousness of everything and at the same time
feeling genuine tension for the characters you're rooting for. I know
it sounds ridiculous, but every single f***ing kill by John Wick feels
exciting and liberating, it was incredible how much I was rooting for
him. To this contributes some stunning, fast-and-furious level action
scenes that benefit amazingly by the practicality involved. Hats off to
the director and the special effects guys for staging such a flawless
string of adrenaline-pumping scenes, in particular to the director for
the highly energetically stylish direction that never feels as a
gimmick or out of place, yet instead makes everything all the more
enjoyable. Furthermore this is one of the few movies in which sound
actually stood out and contributed in making the film a great success.
Keanu Reeves is perfect for the role and brings to the screen so much
charisma I could not help but root for the guy. He is surrounded by a
great cast too that has very fun moments on their own. If all of this
wasn't enough, "John Wick" has some great original ideas and plays with
them in the best way possible.Despite having a blast in the theater and wanting to maybe see this
movie again in a year or so, it isn't original, stylish or innovative
enough to say: "we've seen this plot before, but not quite done this
way". Yes it has its brilliance, but it is kind of cheesy, even if in a
good way, and predictable. It doesn't rank up to a higher standard of
action movie because of its straight-forwardness. It does have some
stakes, but all in all there isn't really an overwhelming set piece or
twist that makes it highly remarkable.Obviously, that is not what it's aiming for and because of that I could
recommend this movie to anybody, just go and have the best action
entertainment fun in the theater!
