7
Zany gangster comedy

Very few actors into their old age have been able to resist the
temptation to play out their end years like the last five overs in a 50
over cricket match- keep featuring in any movie that pays decent money.
Of late, industry stalwart Rober De Niro has been guilty of the same,
but once in a while he does bring out the old sparkle, and more often
than not, that is generally in a mobster themed movie. Ditto for The
Family- a zany comedy about a family of criminals, who come in all
genders and ages.Robert De Niro is Giovanni Manzoni, a crime boss on the run from his
gang, who he tattled on. Put under witness protection, he and his
family have a hard time sticking to their given identities as Giovanni
is unable to rein in his sadistic urges, leading to a murder here, and
a bashing there. His family is not far behind though- Michelle Pfeiffer
is one bad closet pyromaniac of a mother, Dianne Aragon is the
beautifully dangerous daughter, and John D'Leo is the young wheeler
dealer gun, waiting to make a name in the business. The kids are a chip
off the old block - brave and shrewd, with extremely practical, no
nonsense attitudes. Tommy Lee Jones is the FBI agent who has to help
these lunatics maintain a low profile. But all they keep doing, in
different doses of hilarity, is making a war-zone out of a mofussil
town.Luc Besson makes a fine comeback with this funny gangster comedy- the
script is witty, the pace is fast, there are sudden scenes of shocking
violence, and equal doses of laugh out moments. All the actors do a
great job. This is a role meant for De Niro- he is a career don
(Goodfellas, The Godfather, Casino) and this is right up his alley, a
walk in the park. His interactions with his family are awesome, and at
the end i was left wanting more of this family- a sequel on the cards?
Michelle Pfeiffer's beauty has not dimmed one bit, and Tommy Lee Jones
maintains a straight face throughout the antics.The Family is as much about a real family as it is about thugs. Growing
up pains, romance, responsibility, will to survive- all of it is nicely
packaged into a decent entertainer which has loads of laughter, guns,
hammers, baseball bats, explosions, and everything else you love about
the gangster movie genre- 7/10
