6
interesting, entertaining and very well acted, if a bit uneven

"Based on a true story… mostly." These opening words appear on the
screen to set the tone for the historical drama "Victoria & Abdul"
(PG-13, 1:52). The title characters are the U.K.'s Queen Victoria (who
lived from 1819 to 1901, reigning from the age of 18 until she died at
the age of 81) and her Muslim Indian servant, Abdul Karim (who lived
from 1863 to 1909 and served the queen for the last 14 years of her
life). Although Abdul is mentioned frequently in the queen's journal
and correspondence, scholars only began seriously examining his life
and his relationship with the queen over a decade after the 1951
publication of the memoirs of her head of the royal household,
Frederick Ponsonby. Additional interest in Victoria and Abdul's
relationship grew from Karim's diary which his family finally made
public in 2010. Indian author Shrabani Basu wrote the 2010 historical novel on which
the movie is based, but screenwriter Lee Hall ("Billy Elliot") and
director Stephen Frears ("The Queen") definitely took some liberties
with history. They made a film which condenses the story (as most
biopics do) and makes it somewhat light-hearted. They use the basic
outline of the historical friendship between the title characters, add
a few documented incidents from that relationship and fictionalize the
rest of the story. They also choose to overplay certain personal
characteristics of the people involved while downplaying others. For
example, the real Abdul was more arrogant than the film shows and the
queen's son wasn't quite as vindictive as portrayed, but every story
needs conflict and having clearly defined heroes and villains helps.
Regardless, the spirit of the relationship between Queen Victoria and
Abdul Karim is depicted accurately and enjoyably. The two of them
formed a close friendship and a very strong bond which occupied the
queen for years – and defined Abdul's life, giving him a unique place
in history. It's 1887 and the U.K. is celebrating the Golden Jubilee of Queen
Victoria (Oscar winner Dame Judi Dench). She's been Queen of the
British Empire for 50 years, but officially been Empress of India for
just over a decade. She knows little of the Indian subcontinent, but
she is curious about it. When two native Indians, Abdul Karim (Ali
Fazal) and his friend Mohammed (Adeel Akhtar), are brought to London
for the festivities and present a ceremonial coin to the queen, she
takes a keen interest in them, especially Abdul. Mohammed hates the
British because of their rule over his homeland, while Abdul takes a
more positive approach, appreciating the honor of meeting the queen.
She is bored with life as (eventually) the longest reigning monarch in
British history – and is desperately lonely since the death of her
husband years earlier. The friendship between Victoria and Abdul
scratches itches for both of them.When the queen expresses interest in Abdul and Mohammad, they are
prevented from going back to India and become her servants for the
duration of the jubilee, leading to many more interactions between
Victoria and Abdul. His and Mohammad's extended stay gets extended
further when the queen gives Abdul the title of Munshi (a type of
teacher). At her request, Abdul instructs the queen in the Indian
language of Urdu and in the Muslim faith. As the two grow closer, the
members of the royal household increasingly object to the presence and
rising position of this "common" Indian. Particularly strong objections
come from her son, Bertie (Eddie Izzard), the queen's heir apparent.
Bertie and other members of the court work to drive a wedge between
Victoria and Abdul, but Abdul makes the queen happy and she does her
best to stand up for him, even as he remains her devoted servant and
friend."Victoria & Abdul" is an entertaining look at "history's most unlikely
friendship". Hall's script weaves an intriguing tale, even if it does
take liberties with the actual histories of the characters and
oversimplifies the issues involved in their relationship. The comedic
elements sometimes make the movie more enjoyable, but other times feel
like silly and unnecessary distractions from what is inherently an
interesting story. Although he has done better work helming 2016's
"Florence Foster Jenkins", 2013's "Philomena", 1998's "Dangerous
Liaisons" and directing Dame Helen Mirren to Oscar glory in 2006's "The
Queen", Frears has given us another quality film. Still, its main
strength is its acting. Fazal delivers a charming and sympathetic
performance, while Dench again shows how well she knows her way around
a cinematic throne, after winning an Oscar for portraying Queen
Elizabeth I in 1998's "Shakespeare in Love" – and playing a younger
Queen Victoria in 1997's "Mrs. Brown". It's a pleasure to watch the two
stars interact, while the supporting cast does their share to make this
occasionally uneven film well worth a look. "B"
