7
Technically Impressive but Surprisingly Hollow

"Zero Dark Thirty" is a grim, clinical depiction of the CIA search for
Osama bin Laden. Its strongest feature is its dramatization of the Navy
Seal Team 6 operation in Abbottabad, Pakistan, that killed bin Laden.
That sequence is so professionally shot it could be actual documentary
footage. "Zero" has no real plot. Episodic scenes occur in a choppy manner, one
after the other. Scenes consist of depictions of beating and water
boarding of detainees in order to gather information, agents stalking a
suspect in Pakistan's crowded, chaotic bazaars, terrorist bombings,
assassinations and assassination attempts. There are also scenes in
offices where characters stare intently at computer screens or
interrogation videos, and characters yell at each other and use
obscenities, as their frustrating hunt for Osama bin Laden wears them
down. "Zero" makes no attempt to draw the viewer in with any human sentiment.
Characters are given no backstory and no character arch. CIA agent
Maya, played by Jessica Chastain, is the closest the film has to a main
character. She reveals no affect. Her face is blank. She isn't so much
robotic as inert. We know nothing about her, except that she was
recruited to the CIA while in high school – we are never told what
would draw the CIA to a high school student. I didn't care about this
character at all. All I kept thinking was, "Jessica Chastain is being
praised for *this* performance? Why?" The dullness of her performance,
and the underwritten character, made it almost impossible for me to
lose myself in the story, such as it was. Jason Clarke is very strong and charismatic as Dan, a CIA interrogator.
Dan humiliates, beats, and water boards suspects, and then feeds them
delicious meals of hummus and olives when they deliver. His depiction
of his work as just another job – he could be playing a bus driver with
the same amount and degree of expressiveness – is provocative. I wish I
had gone to see a film built around his character and his performance. Overall, I was disappointed in the film. Feature films are an art form.
I want them to do to me what drama can do. I want to be made to
identify with a character and I want, through that identification, to
learn more about life, or I want to be entertained. "Zero" did neither
for me. I wasn't entertained, and my understanding and worldview were
not expanded. I think the same material could have been better treated
in a documentary with selective re-enactments. "Zero Dark Thirty" sidesteps key questions. Maya sacrificed years of
her life to the hunt for Osama bin Laden. Dan risks his humanity by
making his living beating and humiliating other men. Men, women and
children throughout the Muslim world, and, as the film makes clear, in
America's and Europe's cities, are eager to blow themselves up, as long
as they can take some infidels with them. Why? The film doesn't even
acknowledge that there are people out there asking the question, never
mind attempting to suggest an answer. The film opens with audio from the September 11, 2001 terror attacks,
suggesting that the war between Islam and the non-Muslim world dates
from that attack. Not so. Islam increased its territory through jihad
from its invention in the seventh century until September 11, 1683, at
the Battle of Vienna. After that defeat, Islam stopped its spread. The
significance of the date of September 11 goes back over four centuries. America's founding fathers had to deal with jihad; see Thomas Jefferson
and the Barbary Pirates. Some argue terrorism, including the 9-11
attack, is caused by Western imperialism. The solution to these
thinkers is for the Western world to be nicer to non-Western nations,
to practice multiculturalism and to share the wealth. Others argue that
jihad is inextricable from Islam, and that one necessary step is for
the West to recognize and cherish its own unique virtues – to cherish
that for which its spies, soldiers, and citizens fight, sacrifice, kill
and die. "Zero Dark Thirty" never so much as brushes up against these questions.
At its key moment, the film is hollow. We all know how the hunt ends –
we all know Osama bin Laden is dead. "Zero" might have addressed why
Maya gave the time of her life to that hunt, why Dan risked his
humanity, why Seal Team 6 trained for years and risked their lives.
"Zero" never does consider why these, who might have been the film's
heroes, did what they did, and I walked out of the theater oddly
unmoved by all the high tension and graphic violence I'd just sat
through.
