7
Bad Moms but not a bad film.

The surprise hit "Bad Moms" is a comedy starring Mila Kunis, Kristen
Bell and Kathryn Hahn and is directed by both Scott Moore and Jon
Lucas. This movie centers itself around Amy (Mila Kunis) a mother of
two who is a bit of a perfectionist. She aspires for her family to have
the best that the world can offer. Unfortunately, after a series of bad
events everything goes downhill fast. Luckily Amy befriends two other
struggling mothers Kiki (Kristen Bell) and Carla (Kathryn Hahn) who
work together to try and make some sense of their crazy lives, while
having some fun at the same time. First and foremost, "Bad Moms" works extremely well. I can honestly say
that this movie completely shattered my expectations. While the film
isn't breaking any new ground or providing any sort of different
approach to the extremely over saturated comedy genre, it is fun.
That's right, the film from start to finish never fails to entertain.
The films humor works on multiple levels. The jokes here never quite
seem to stop coming and the entire film feels thoroughly littered with
hilarious moments. This is an excellent break from many modern day
comedies where all of the jokes come in both the first fifteen and last
fifteen minutes. Raunchy humor was obviously a big selling point for
this movie, yet thankfully the movie never feels too overbearing with
its vulgarity. Never once did I notice a particular character was
dropping "F-Bombs" just for the sake of it, but when they did the jokes
were hilarious. Writing in this movie is the chemistry between these
actresses also felt extremely tight and without it the film just would
not have gelled correctly. All of the actors here are surprisingly funny. Even Kathryn Hahn's (who
I have found quite annoying and overly rambunctious in past outings)
character here proves to be hilarious and she never misses a beat. Mila
Kunis and Kristen Bell also play very entertaining and likable
characters. Another surprise was Christian Applegate, Jada Pinkette
Smith and Annie Mumolo's performances as the villain moms. While at
times they got a tad too outrageous for their own good, these three
women were truly amusing and helped further the comedic aspects of the
film. Also, a huge shout out to Martha Stewart's hilarious cameo in the
film. The only negative that can really be geared toward the acting in
this film is the child actors. While I'm sure these kids didn't exactly
chose the writing they were given, they come off as spoiled little
brats. Throughout the entire movie these kids constantly pestered the
overall fun tone that this movie was riding on. Speaking of tone, this movies strength comes from the lighthearted
nature of the plot. The movie is surprisingly heartwarming, yet never
overbearing on its themes of family unity. The film knows it's a comedy
and it sticks to being a comedy very well, something that can be
attributed to the excellent direction and writing in the film. Yet
another strong suit in "Bad Moms" has to be its well-rounded pacing.
Very seldom in this film does it feel like the plot is glossing over
important story points. Impressively it does this while at the same
time remaining consistently funny. Moving on to the soundtrack and
overall sound design of the film: The soundtrack while not exactly bad,
is utterly forgettable. Audiences will struggle to remember a single
track and relating scene in the film by the next day. Going into this movie I completely expected a bland over saturated film
about female characters going wild. Instead what I received was a smart
film that carries extremely strong female characters without having
them seem needy and dependent, something that haunts the film industry
today. Luckily this film does all of these things while remaining
consistently hilarious and surprisingly sincere. Ultimately "Bad Moms"
suffers a few minor hiccups along the way, but comes out a surprisingly
hilarious and fun romp.
