5
Messy, weak and lacking the serious impact of a serious crisis.

So, Ron Howard, Tom Hanks and Hans Zimmer return for the third movie
adaptation of Dan Brown's bestselling symbolist and iconology
professional, Robert Langdon. Though we seem to be ironically missing,
The Lost Symbol where Langdon tramples over Washington's Masonic
history, which is currently in development but with Howard only sitting
in a producers chair. Howard's direction, or the editing seems sloppy and rushed with
noticeable out-of-sync audio. It shows that they struggled with
cramming as much as the butchered novel into the 121min runtime,
missing possible reshoots as some of the performances are really not up
to scratch, namely Sidse Babett Knudsen and Omar Sy. Hanks, slips into Langdon mode totally as expected and the delightful
Felicity Jones plays the Bond-girl style sidekick very well as we watch
them try to figure out the same puzzles and twists Langdon is usually
pitted against. It's unfortunate that the more I think about it, the
more silly the elaborate idea becomes. There's inconsistencies and obvious inaccuracies with the book and I
wonder how much power Dan Brown had as executive producer. The story
here appears much weaker than the novel, as does some of its
characters, especially the reworking of Irrfan Khan's "Provost". A lot
of the reasonings are just weak and unrealistic which is a shame for
something which could actually happen. Zimmer's score is of the recognisable Langdon theme but, it's been
digitised adding a terrible technical feel that might accompany a
espionage thriller. Again, giving me the assumption that the film was
rushed and not the polished film it should have been. What's possibly the biggest disappointment of the film is the factual
reality that the story is based on, and as much as we all might like
the previous, popular Brown conspiracies, this story is a real looming
crisis. It lacks the serious impact the book gives of the current
population crisis, the fact that we're nearly 9 billion people on a
planet that can currently only support an estimated 4. It fails to question what we should or what would we do in this
situation, which we are actually in and is a serious topic for world
governments, councils and organisations like WHO. Should we actively do
something about population control or let nature take it's natural
course. I don't honestly believe this film has audiences going home and
taking a long hard think about the issue or the implications of viruses
and other methods of population control. The real question being, do we
let people die or save as many as we can to keep mankind from
extinction. True to most trilogy tragedies, this is certainly the worse of the
series so far and I'm hoping The Lost Symbol doesn't fall to the same
fate with a rumoured Mark Romanek at the helm. I had low expectations
to begin with and unfortunately it didn't hit the mark. Running Time: 6 The Cast: 6 Performance: 6 Direction: 4 Story: 5
Script: 5 Creativity: 7 Soundtrack: 4 Job Description: 3 The Extra
Bonus Points: 0 Would I buy the Bluray?: actually yes, only to be part
of the series. 46% 5/10
