8
'It's seems the enemy... it's not what we believe'

'It seems the enemy... it's not what we believe' Director Sofia Coppola
continues to impress as she recreates a well-known novel by Thomas
Cullinan as adapted for the screen by Albert Maltz, Irene Kamp (aka
Grimes Grice) and Coppola herself. Yes, the film was also made in 1971
with Clint Eastwood and Geraldine Page, but this version is gentler and
more subtle – not only because of Coppola's vision but also because of
the impeccable cast she has selected. Very succinctly, the outline of the tale follows - While imprisoned in
a Confederate girls' boarding school, an injured Union soldier cons his
way into each of the lonely women's hearts, causing them to turn on
each other, and eventually, on him.But with more atmosphere included the story is an impressive historical
setting as realized by designer Anne Ross and captured on atmospheric
(if a bit too dark) cinematography by Philippe Le Sourd. And a more
insightful synopsis describes this psychological drama about love and
betrayal during the Civil War. As the costly American Civil War still
rages on, Jane (Angourie Rice) a 12-year-old student of the forgotten
Miss Martha Farnsworth's Seminary for Young Ladies in warm and humid
Louisiana stumbles upon a gravely wounded Union soldier, John McBurney
(Colin Farrell). Taken in to recover from his injuries, the Corporal is
imprisoned in a small room inside the mansion, however, before long,
the seductive and unwanted guest will manage to take advantage of the
female inhabitants' wartime-subdued desires. At first McBurney is met
with careful and caring attention by Miss Martha (Nicole Kidman),
Edwina (Kirsten Dunst), Alicia (Elle Fanning), Amy (Oona Lawrence),
Marie (Addison Riecke) and Emil (Emma Howard). But McBurney charms them
as they nurse him back to health, and his lustful manipulations cause
them to spiral into jealous and vengeful rages against him. Feeling
trapped, John realizes that his benefactress cannot be trusted… with
his love or with his life!The musical scoring by Laura Karpman and Phoenix (with nods to
Monteverdi's 'Magnificat') greatly enhances the atmosphere. The story
takes unexpected turns and ends rather surprisingly, but it all works
well. Recommended
