1
Harmony Korine scams people BIG this time

First of all this movie was made by the guy who made Trash Humpers, so
if you liked that movie you might like this one. The writing in this
movie is terrible and makes no sense at all. Selena Gomez is supposed
to be a very Christian girl with high morals and ends up drinking tons
of alcohol, does drugs, and encourages robbery. She then tells her
Grandma that she should come with her to spring break next year
implying that she should drink do drugs and have sex with random people
too. Selena Gomez is trying to find out who she really is during spring
break and that turns out to be a drunk slut. Her friends however are
far worse and apparently are now cold blooded killers. These girls in
college could have a good future but decide they want to have sex with
James Franco and get money in any way possible. One girl gets shot and
gets afraid and goes home and the other two decide to stay. I guess
they don't care if they are going to die or not. These two girls then
tell their parents over the phone that they want to turn their life
around and start being good people is the secret to being happy thus
implying that they'll go home and start listening to their own advice
and get a better life. They then proceed to magically kill tons of
people with guns from a gang and steal a very expensive car. The most
annoying part of this movie is the repetitiveness of everything James
Franco says. That "Spring Break" line that he keeps saying that I'm
sure Korine finds haunting just sounds ridiculous and annoying. I'm not
sure what the message of this movie is because nothing in it makes
sense and nothing is consistent. I can't tell if Korine is advocating
completely hedonistic life-styles or not because while some of the
girls feel bad and go back their "boring lives" the last two girls get
let off with no consequence what-so-ever. This movie to me just seems
like a pretentious piece of s**t. That uses a somewhat interesting
premise and unique cinematography to fool the audience that more is
being said with this movie than there is.This is by far the worst movie I have ever seen and I've seen The Room,
Ghost Rider 2, and Son of the Mask. Please don't waste your money on
this movie unless you are a raving fan of Harmony Korine, a weird-ass
hipster which would I guess would imply the former, or want to torture
yourself.
