7
Fresh Story full of Familiar Flavor, Wreck-It Ralph is nostalgically entertaining

Wreck-it Ralph is Hollywood's latest foray in to the subculture world
of gaming---a world that Hollywood essentially knows nothing about,
with examples I refuse to mention so I don't have the sensation of
throwing up. Except this time its Disney turning on the nostalgia while
delivering a fresh story that involves a mixing of classic-style arcade
games with the new-school arcade hits that we currently see. So what we
have is a pure gamer movie, right?Not quite. It is not a gamer's movie, it is really an animated movie
with many, many nods to the world of arcade and console gaming. There
is a major difference. You don't have the pacing, style, mood, and tone
of a video game here unlike the visually stimulating whirlwind of a
trip we experienced in Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. Instead you have a
movie with a major Disney touch and essentially becoming the modern-day
version of Who Framed Roger Rabbit---a new cast of characters being
joined by dozens of cameos from old-school favorites. Don't let this statement deter you, just let it allow you to hover your
mind around the fact that the cameos you saw in the trailer was not a
sample, it was a display of the entire menu. Luckily for this movie,
the cast of characters featured are very likable, have their moments to
shine, and do propel the movie forward when the plot (and amount of
references) gets stuck in the mud. From the lovable baddie Wreck-It
Ralph to the adorably filthy and sarcastic Vannelope (brilliantly
executed by Sarah Silverman, an underrated comedic gem), you will feel
for the characters much like when you immerse yourself in a gigantic
video game. You will root for the two as they both fight for a place in
gaming society, in a world that mistreats the outcasts, gaming
villains, and anything too retro. In a sort of ironic twist, Disney and Nintendo (the current gaming
leader) are very alike in mannerisms, and also very similar in how
their audience reach prevents them from fulfilling their true
potential. With Nintendo they aim to remain looking hardcore while
attempting to reach out into the mainstream. With Wreck-It Ralph, it
was a kids movie full of sight and verbal gags that will giggle the
children and tweens while severely pushing heavy and subtle gaming
references to the 80s, 90s, and gamers of today even. There is a Leroy
Jenkins reference for crying out loud. Surely everyone gets their
spoonful of fun, but it prevents the movie from truly pushing towards
something edgy, something more. But what they do deliver, is a delightful movie that is chock full of
nostalgia and originality. This awkward mix works for the company that
saved the gaming industry, and works for the film that celebrates it.
