10
Stunning Conclusion to an Epic Trilogy

Not being a huge fan of superhero movies, I didn't have much
expectations for Batman Begins. However viewing the 2005 Christopher
Nolan production, I was pleasantly shocked. Then after my huge
expectations for, "The Dark Knight", Christopher Nolan blew my
expectations to the dust. Will the same happen with the 3rd and last
film, "The Dark Knight Rises"? Quite simply, Yes! My big expectations
were once again, blown away. What a production! This is a true
cinematic experience, to behold. The movie exceeded my expectations in
terms of action, and entertainment. The editing, sound, score, visuals,
direction and action are all top notch. The film contains a fine cast of talented actors. Christian Bale, of
course still makes is a great Batman. Michael Cain is fantastic, as he
always is. He gives such a powerful performance, he really ought to be
considered for an Oscar nomination. Tom Hardy as Bane is utterly
terrifying, at times, and completely ominous. Anne Hathaway as
Catwoman/Selina Kyle is a scene stealer. She is completely engrossing.
Everyone is so great, the dynamic scenes between the actors are so well
done, so well written, and so well directed. The Dark Knight Rises is
is emotionally riveting and amazing to view.At a running time of almost 3 hours, the film never becomes dull, which
is pretty impressive. The movie's action sequences are spectacularly
well created and very intense. The dialogue between the character's are
intelligent and highly believable. The movie's soundtrack is terrific
and really exemplify's many of the movie's scenes. Extremely well
editing and sound use really develop many of the movie's action scenes,
so it's not just explosions and visuals like in many other movies.
Nolan creates a grand, dirty, engrossing world, and his action
sequences just hum. In conclusion, this film is a gorgeous reminder that great writing and
direction can enhance any movie-going experience, even superhero
movies, which are usually thought of as mindless entertainment. I am
wholly satisfied with Christopher Nolan's vision and thank all who
worked on this film for bringing such an intricate interpretation of
its very famous literary source. I cannot recommend this film anymore
than I have, I just have to say everyone and anyone should see it.
10/10"
