6
A truly fantastic ride

"A Monster Calls" is a Spanish/American/British co-production from 2016
that results in an English-language movie and boy has this one been
successful with the awards circuits. It runs for 105 minutes
approximately and was directed by J.A. Bayona, thus the Spain
reference. The screenplay writer is Patrick Ness and he is also the one
who came up with the original novel here. Looking at the awards, the
IMDb rating and the RT reception, you can certainly say that he did a
good job overall. Lead actor Lewis MacDougall is probably not too
famous (yet?), but Weaver, Jones and Neeson (all Oscar nominees) are of
course household names by now. And they are all giving strong
performances too. Weaver and Jones add a lot of heart to the story
while Neeson gives one of the more memorable voice acting performance
in recent history.This is the story of a teenager who not only has to deal with bullying
at school, but also needs to come to terms with his mother's mortality.
And he finds a strong companion not necessarily in easing his pain, but
in directing it properly. The consequence is also that the moment when
he says he wants it to be over and when they are at the mother's bed
are really touching and got my eyes wet. Sadly, these moments alone are
not enough to really appreciate everything before that. There are
always minor flaws in terms of story-telling, nothing too serious, but
enough to make a difference for negative in terms of the quantity. For
example the third story was really really weak compared to 1 and
especially 2. The protagonist standing up to the bullies added nothing
to the film in my opinion. And actually it also did not feel too
authentic. And there are other flaws too, like the part with the did is
not really a worthy addition that does anything in terms of character
development. other than perhaps showing the protagonist is far from
alone, but Weaver (and Jones) provide that to a sufficient degree too.
Nonetheless the weaknesses in story-telling are somewhat made up by the
strengths in performances, even if I did not like the lead actor as
much as some of the others I guess. This is certainly one of the most
depressing 2016/2017 films, probably not one of the best, but still
fairly good. It could have needed some editing though, maybe stayed at
90-95 minutes max and it would have been a really strong film if they
had cut the right scenes. i still recommend it though, just not that
enthusiastically.
