5
Too. Much. In. One. Movie. Stop it. Watch the first two.

For the most part over the years I have enjoyed the "Despicable Me"
franchise, from the first film in 2010 to the "Minions" movie in 2015;
I wouldn't call them necessarily great films by any means, even in
terms of kids flicks, but they are still pretty cute and sufficiently
entertaining in my opinion. "Despicable Me 3" however is a bit of a hot
mess.Now I'm sure that if you sit any child in front of it then they're
going to be just fine and have fun with it, and if you're the kind of
parent that is only looking for that then this will do the job.
Although I would argue that parents should at least try to find
something with a little more effort put into it than this. The film has
no focus whatsoever, spreading itself thin with countless subplots that
come and go like the wind; as if assuming your kids are all totally
A.D.D. and must throw as many things at them as possible in a short
amount of time. The humor is also mostly mediocre at best, except a few
times I chuckled at the 1980s styled villain Evil Brat, played by Trey
Parker, but I'm going to guess that's just because of my soft spot for
anything 80s. The minions had one or two moments that I found
entertaining, but for the majority of the movie their involvement felt
really forced. Like someone in the studio kept writing notes for the
screenwriters to make them put in more minions shtick no matter how out
of place it is.If someone were to ask me what the movie was actually about, I would
have a difficult time trying to explain it. What it's supposed to be
about is that Gru discovers he has a long lost twin brother named
Dru...because of course...and from there Gru begins to creep back to
his old ways of villainy, and in the midst of their reunion they face
up against the 80s nostalgic villain Evil Brat in order to retrieve a
stolen diamond. But the movie is only SOMETIMES about that. The entire
movie has to juggle so many plot lines that most are pointless to have
in here and only halt the story entirely. Going from Gru facing up
against Evil Brat only to get fired from being a secret agent, Gru and
the family going through a financial slump after being fired, Gru
bonding with his newly discovered twin Dru, Gru having a disagreement
with the minions because they want to be villains again and Gru doesn't
even though throughout the whole movie Gru is still doing villainous
things but the movie doesn't acknowledge that once, the minions going
off doing random things from singing on an "American Idol" like
television show to winding up in prison, Lucy (Gru's wife) learning to
bond with Gru's three daughters and finally be a mother, one of the
daughter's accidentally getting engaged to a boy selling cheese...what?
Another daughter trying to discover a real life unicorn. Gru and Dru
performing a heist to steal the giant diamond from Evil Brat. Evil Brat
occasionally popping up every 10-15 minutes or so to be quirky for
literally 30 seconds only to cut back to whatever is going on with Gru
and the family. Evil Brat building a giant robot in order to destroy
Hollywood. All that squeezed into 90 with little laughs to be had.There's simply too much, as if the writers had a lot of ideas they
wanted to use for a television show and these were concepts for
individual episodes but the studio wanted a film so they crammed it all
into one movie to shoot out into theaters. That was a bad idea. Now, I
can't say that this is a terrible movie. There are far worse to show
your children, and like I said before, it will probably do the job of
keeping them preoccupied for an hour and a half since there is so much
going on. It's bright and colorful, the animation is top notch. But
there are also so many better options to watch, especially if you're a
parent trying to find something to watch as a family. Watch the first
two "Despicable Me" movies or the "Minions" since those were cute and
did a much better job being at least funny. Or if you want something
new that's bright and colorful, check out "Captain Underpants: The
First Epic Movie". That's a decent one for the whole family. "The Boss
Baby" was actually surprisingly decent and had some heart as well as
creativity to it. "The Lego Batman Movie" had its moments, not a great
movie but I still think its better than "Despicable Me 3". Although
"Despicable Me 3" is admittedly a much better option than something
like "The Emoji Movie" which was a god awful piece of manufactured
garbage which contained no respect for your child's intelligence. At
least "Despicable Me 3" never felt like it was talking down to kids or
trying to sell crap for 90 minutes straight. This was at only a bit
lazy is all.
