8
interesting historical drama and a great performance

"Bridge of Spies" from 2015 is about the Francis Gary Powers incident
in the 1960s. As usual, with the exception of the Lincoln
assassination, I remember it. This time, though, only vaguely.The U.S. arrested a Russian spy, Rudolf Abel (Mark Rylance) and chose
James Donovan (Tom Hanks) who had some experience in military cases, to
defend him. Abel is found guilty but Donovan is able to convince the
Judge to commute his sentence to life in case the U.S. needs him later
- for instance, if we should want to exchange him for one of our own.That situation happens when Francis Gary Powers, taking aerial
photographs for the CIA, is shot down and taken prisoner. Donovan is
then sent to negotiate the exchange.For many people, this will be a slow, talky drama, with one big action
scene, Powers being shot down, and one scene of tension (if you don't
know the outcome).It is, however, a very good drama with Hanks giving a strong and
sometimes humorous performance as Donovan, thrust into the world of
international spies and negotiations. He takes it upon himself to also
work for the freedom of an American student, Frederic Pryor (Will
Rogers) who was arrested for being at the wrong place at the wrong
time. That student is the only person involved in the case who is alive
today, at 83, and praised the film but thought they "took a lot of
liberties with it." Well, that's Hollywood.The main reason, other than historical interest, to watch this film is
the performance of Mark Rylance as Rudolf Abel. A winner of three Tony
awards, two Olivier awards, and a BAFTA, Rylance is a highly regarded
stage actor, known as the best of his generation. He's made very few
films but he's about to make more and take the film industry by storm.As Abel, Rylance creates a human being, portraying him as a quiet,
unassuming older man sent to do a job. He bonds with Donovan, but he
tells him that he's not afraid to die. He spends his time in prison
drawing. It is a remarkable performance which has earned him an Oscar
nomination.Strangely, many people involved in this incident didn't live too long
after -- Abel, who returned to the Soviet Union and to his family,
lectured for 10 years and died in 1971; Donovan died in 1970; and
Powers died in a helicopter crash while working for a TV station in
1977.I hope the film will encourage some people to read up on this case - of
course, I always hope that. Maybe some time somebody will do it rather
than posting the question someone did about Gandhi -- was this a
fictional character.
