8
I liked it in spite of what everyone else says

Director Robert Zemeckis gives us some breathtaking moments in "Allied"
from 2015. The film stars Brad Pitt and Marian Cotillard as Max and
Marianne, two spies who meet on a joint assignment in France and fall
in love. Mission accomplished, Max proposes. She is allowed to come to
England and marry him, and they have a beautiful daughter.One day Max's bosses call him in and say that they believe Marianne
took the name of an executed resistance worker and is, in fact, a
German spy. They order him to write down a fake message he will be
given by phone, and if it shows up in transmissions the following
Monday, they will know the truth. Then he must execute her. Max,
however, has no intention of waiting until Monday to find out.By no means is this a perfect film and yes, some parts are easy to
guess. When you've seen 5000 films or more, it's not hard to know
what's going to happen after certain scenes. The script could have been
a little more interesting. I certainly didn't find it sentimental and
goopy as someone described it. And what the heck is wrong with
sentiment anyway? It was not, to me, overdone.If I am being honest, I think the problem lay with the casting of Brad
Pitt. He's a real honest-to-God movie star as they had in the old
Hollywood, and I love him. But this is a role that should have been
played by someone like Jason Isaacs or Tom Hardy or Tom Hiddleston.
Pitt does not bring to the character the layers and depth which would
have made this a richer film. He has the stoicism but little else. Also
I found his face distracting - he's had injections in the bottom part
of his face and it looks different.Cotillard, on the other hand, gives a brilliant performance of an
expert spy who falls in love with her temporary partner, sending her
life into another trajectory.Someone pointed out some modernizations that were off-putting. One was
Max's sister as an out lesbian - highly doubtful in those days in
England. The one I caught was the phrase "take it outside." It was like
the Amelia Earhart movie with Diane Keaton where she says "cut the
crap." Are these screenwriters kidding? A little more care needs to be
taken when dealing with period pieces.The special effects were fantastic and brought home the idea of how
close in proximity the war was to the British people. The scene with
the ambassador was excellent; but my favorite scene was the one in the
desert with the car. Beautiful.I recommend it. I thought it was well done and well acted, exciting in
parts, and also poignant. To young people I say - don't be hardened to
sentimentality at your age.
