10
My Little Pony & Equestria Transformed

This movie deserves all the praise it gets. I'm a 25 year old guy, who
happens to also be a brony, and putting that aside, I actually enjoyed
this movie going by myself for an early screening the night before
official launch to theaters across the USA. Granted the next day is
when I got together with 2-4 groups of friends and people and saw the
movie about another 5 times on Friday's release. That's how great this
movie is though. It is worth a weird odd number of times to see this
movie over and over again. We've all been waiting for a full on pony
movie for quite sometime, whether you are the older generation pony
fan, or current generation 4 pony fan. This movie does not follow the
television series at all. In fact, it is a whole different story, with
an "extended episode" feeling to it. The artwork and graphics of the
pony are top tier, the animation makes it almost feel like you are
watching one of your favorite animated classics. Equestria and the
movements of the ponies, as well as the physics of the magic and wing
movements are perfect. It doesn't have quite the extended opening most
were anticipating, however we get a spotlight on Canterlot and just the
phenomenal job the design teams did with the animation in the
beginning. It took my breath away, and it was already exciting. The
story follows a pony, who believes in friends who didn't come for her,
Commander Tempest (voiced by Emily Blunt). We find Equestria raging
friendship wars again, and we get so many awesome scenes and the mane 6
(Twilight, Rainbow, Applejack, Rarity, Fluttershy, and Pinkie)
fulfilling there hilarious antics, humour, and fight to keep friendship
alive. The Storm King (voiced by Liev Schreiber (which came as a big
surprise hearing him jump in based off his career of darker movies) is
after the 4 princess of Equestria's magic, to be able to control and
rule over with dark storm power in Equestria. We also meet a stray
alley cat named Capper (voiced by Taye Diggs) who lures are ponies and
acts to try and help them at first, then alerts for the Storm King to
come snatch them. We meet Sky Pirates, a Gryphon who's lost her charm
and bravery, along with her crew. The music is awesome, just as Rainbow
Dash's song, "Time to be Awesome" is. Daniel Ingram, music composer for
the My Little Pony TV series, Equestria Girls, and the movie, did an
amazing job on all the music in the show and off the show.
Particularly, Rainbow, sung by Songbird Serenade (Voice and music of
Sia), hit me right in the heart.In summary, it's quite obvious this movie is for children, and not
every single person is going to "gallop" into theaters. However, if you
have a kid or more, someone in your life, or even you yourself are an
exceptional fan of our friendship horses, this movie is for sure worth
going and purchasing a ticket for. You'll absolutely love it for sure. My Hobbyist Critic Review (in theater):Metascore: 87/100 Summary: The movie is exactly as it is intended to be
for all audiences of all ages, with appropriate humour, and casual
puns. It opens up almost immediately after the logo to the movie
introduces you, right into the hooves of the ponies you are loving and
watching. The music was spot on, and even has a full album available
for purchase anywhere online music is sold. The voice actors and
actresses followed and played there roles excellent. The art and design
of the animation and physics is flawless, compared to a lot of other
animated movies that are released to compete. ****My Little Pony: The Movie has currently made $15.5 million dollars
in the United States and Canada since it's release, and $10.6 million
dollars in other parts of the globe, for a current total of $26.1
million dollars as of October 15, 2017****
