9
Everything is indeed awesome

I'd be surprised if anyone saw this coming. The Lego Movie is quite
simply unlike anything seen in a long while: rip-roaringly hilarious,
gorgeous to look at, imaginative beyond belief, a great parody of worn
out "chose one" clichés and also rather poignant and touching. The first thing one has to mention is the animation. Not only does it
look like an amateur stop-motion film with a $500 million budget, but
the amount of detail and creativity put into the visuals is just
staggering. At times there's so much going on the screen it's almost
overwhelming, yet if you look closely you can see that every single
thing is comprised of recognizable Lego parts. The various ways the
world shifts, breaks, is constructed again, falls apart and moves
around is simply a joy to watch. The implementation of real-world
objects into the otherwise plastic world is certain to get huge laughs
out of anyone, especially the revelation about the ominous superweapon
"Kragle". The result is a film that looks unlike anything we've seen
before.The script is a roller-coaster ride of hilarious gag after another. The
jokes come at you so fast you can't catch them all in one viewing, and
blink-and-you'll-miss-it side gags clutter the screen. No running gag
wears out its welcome, no joke is overplayed or overemphasised. The
characters are all funny and likable with enough personality to them to
fill up multiple movies on their own. Batman especially is a riotous
parody of the grim, dark versions of the Caped Crusader we've been
stuck with for nearly a decade. And due to Lego having rights for
nearly every IP imaginable, you won't be able to guess which
mega-franchise is going to turn up next. Despite all this high praise, there are a couple of minor issues.
During its third act the tone of the film starts moving to a more
serious and emotional direction, which to me didn't work as well as the
rapid fire comedy of the rest of the film. The voicework is great for
the most part, but amidst all the others it becomes rather apparent
that Morgan Freeman and Liam Neeson are live, not voice actors. It's
not that their performances are bad, they just seem rather flat and
lifeless in comparison to the rest of the cast. The Lego movie is a downright masterpiece, there's no two ways about
it. Incredible visuals and animation combined with a hilarious script,
dazzling creativity and good characters make it one of the best and
most original animated films in a long time. Some minor hindrances can
do very little to drag it down, and the end result is fantastic.
