3
It was hard to not laugh at the end...

Overall, I thought the first one was okay. Even though a majority of
the time I was bored with the story, I did think it was somewhat
interesting and I felt the acting was very good in it. I also felt the
real sex element of the film was nothing more than a gimmick to create
buzz but it wasn't so bad that it tossed me out of the film. However, I
didn't really feel the same in the second installment.While the acting is still good in this film (seriously, Charlotte
Gainsbourg is very good in the movie) and the film actually starts to
build quite well from where the first one left off, the story hits its
Third Act on such a silly note that I couldn't take the movie seriously
and it felt like it validated my thoughts that the real sex part was
just a gimmick. While the movie doesn't go overboard to the point of
something like Joe uses her nymphomania to win the presidency, the
development of her career becoming a debt collector and using her
knowledge of sex in this career path was just too out-there for me when
compared to the beginning of the two volumes. It didn't help either
that Joe decides to take on an apprentice who decides to go all Darth
Vader on her Emperor Palpatine. Till this point, the film was
progressing and developing nicely but this evolution was something that
I just couldn't get into—which is a big problem because, despite how
good the acting was, the characters were just people I couldn't fully
invest in.With this element of the story rubbing me the wrong way and immediately
taking out even the smallest amount of investment I made into Joe's
story, it ended up making me feel like I was right that the real sex
part was just a gimmick to get talk about the film going because it
feels like that was the priority and the drama and story were the
afterthought. Yes, all films have their own particular gimmick they are
sold on but sometimes those gimmicks made the film feel lazy because
that was where all the attention went. Granted, "Nymphomaniac Vol. II"
isn't as bad as a "found footage" gimmick but it did make me feel like
Lars von Trier was more worried about getting people excited about a
movie that contains real sex than he was about telling a naturally
developing story.Still, through it all, the acting is still really good. I just didn't
really care for this one because, along with the problems I had in the
story, I just couldn't invest myself fully into the characters. In the
end, the film is just not my cup of tea…and, honestly, tea isn't really
my cup of tea.Howdy! My name is Rev. Ron and if you feel like reading more of my
rants, ramblings, bad jokes, geek references, and other movie reviews
(like a more in-depth look at "Nymphomaniac Vol. II" and other films
that were clearly just faking it the entire time in order to boost your
ego) you can visit my blog at revronmovies.blogspot.com. If you don't
want to do that because you assume that my dislike of the film has
little to do with the story and characters and more to do with the idea
that I "didn't get it," you don't need to visit my blog.
