6
It's Exactly What You Expect

Before we sit down in the theater, we know pretty much exactly what
happens. Two girls go scuba diving in a shark cage and wind up a
trapped in said cage 47 meters below the surface. Since they aren't
experts, we know how they will react. Then sharks show up. Since they
are sharks in a scary movie, we know how they will react. There is no
real room for surprises.If you expect rampant plot twists and character development, you must
not see this type of movie often. It is what it is and it knows that.
Despite the only real mystery being which of the girls survives, if
any, or perhaps both, the movie actually manages to provide a
refreshing twist.That may sound bold to say when talking about a powerfully simple shark
attack movie, but take some time to think about it. The twist is
secretly ingenious and explains away many of the ghastly errors in
believability.I'm surprised to find myself defending a movie that I didn't really
like all that much. But I am. It's not that movie doesn't deserve
criticism. It certainly does. The acting performances earn failing
grades across the board. The dialogue is laced with embarrassing over
explanations and repeated lines, most of which involve warnings from
the captain about the bends. Other times this takes the form of the
girls obnoxiously narrating the menial tasks as they carry them out.
Once or twice might have been fine, but it's tough to stomach after
about the 10th time or so.My thought on this is maybe the filmmakers knew that it was too dark to
see what was going on for most of the movie, so they made the girls say
aloud everything that they did. This solution makes about as much sense
as going on a five-mile run after knowingly drinking spoiled milk. If
one problem is easily avoidable, avoid the problem. Don't attempt a
remedy that almost certainly won't help the situation.All that said, I defend the movie because I think it executes its
mission reasonably well. I shifted to the edge of my seat and felt
uneasy on many occasions. The movie managed to scare the audience and
it did so with fewer jump scares than expected.Instead, the movie built to moments that would normally climax with the
infamous jump scare then simply opted not to deliver one. The goal is
still achieved. The moments still induce a sense of dread from the
audience, but without the cheapness of frightening viewers by
essentially saying "boo." I'd like to see other movies emulate this
tactic.My advice: if you are going to watch this movie, understand what you
are getting into. The movie likely won't surprise and that wasn't its
intention. Be reasonable with your expectations. Accept the movie's
strengths and weaknesses. Empathize with how terrifying the situation
would be if it were you stuck in the shark cage on the ocean floor, and
don't hesitate to laugh at the movie's weaknesses.Do those two things, and you may walk away satisfied. If you are
unwilling to do that, stay out of the water.
