10
About Kate Blanchett

Kate Blanchett deserves best actress for her performance in Blue
Jasmine.What an amazing film! But more so, what an amazing actress Kate
Blanchett is! I always say, great actors do not act, they just are the
role. If an actor has to get into the character, then they should have
done something else with their lives. Because Kate Blanchett does not
act, she just IS the character. She just steps into the role she is
playing. She makes it look easy, even when she plays somebody that is
losing her mind. Still, as hard as it was for my wife and I to see that
role she played, I am glad I saw the movie. WOW!! The closest thing I
can remember to this performance, and storyline, was the famous movie
"Frances" played by, of course, [ also ] the great Jessica Lange. That
is another movie to see! Very intense. But really, you have to take
yourself to see this movie. I love Kate Blanchett! She is of course
beautiful, talented, magical and most of all, she has absolutely no
ego. She throws herself into the role, and if need be, grovel and
exhibit the pain of the common man ( woman ) having gone thru life's'
tragedies that are unfortunately so common with today's average person.At the movies' end I said to my wife "Kate's acting reminds me of
Gollum" in that famous scene at the end of Lord of the Rings: The Two
Towers, where Gollum is in the forest and his multiple personalities
show themselves as he struggles to best decide the fate of his Hobbit
counterparts and get that elusive ring back. I would definitely say
that Kate Blanchett's characters are every bit as twisted as Gollum,
and yet still has something inside of her that is still worthy of
redemption. As Frodo said "I pity him Sam. I could not kill Sméagol,
for I still see good in him" – to paraphrase badly.And so it is with Jasmine, having lost herself into the world of
materialism and other people's money, having hit the very bottom, can
she salvage what's left of her soul and find the humanity she lost.This movie will really make you think.Kate Blanchett is a major blessing to the film industry and to the
world.She really deserves Best Actress in2014 Academy Awards.
