8
A Fun Action Film.....not for the uptight!

Yes I gave this movie an eight! Why, you might ask? Because it did all
the things it was supposed to do. Reading all the reviews, I can't
understand what people were expecting this movie to be. Judging from
the trailer, you can tell it's going to be a dope kung fu movie but you
also see that RZA is playing the main character. I didn't expect much
from his acting but he did an okay job nonetheless. The plot was solid,
nothing complex or in depth like Inception or Dark Knight but who
really expects a complex plot from an action movie. I sure as hell
don't. I'm a film student and I noticed a lot of things wrong from a
logistics stand point, but I know how to turn off my head and just
enjoy a film for what it is. I didn't make the movie, so why waste my
time talking about what I would have done differently because I'll
never get the chance to. But I can write a review based on how I
experienced the film.THE GOOD - The score was great. An interesting mix of hip hop,
symphonic and other genres. The costuming, weaponry, set design were
all great and looked great on film. This film had a lot of funny
moments. As an adult, I can appreciate the humor from a dirty joke and
they did them well. The fighting and action were awesome. There were
times where my best friend would consistently tap out of excitement for
how awesome the fight scenes were. The acting was okay, but I think the
best job goes to Lucy Lui and Russell Crowe because they gave the best
performances.THE BAD - I don't know about RZA playing the main character. He did
okay on some parts but on others he was very dry. I also would have
preferred someone else to narrate. Like Morgan Freeman or Laurence
Fishburne. I named those black actors because it seemed like the
Filmmakers were going for an urban feel, but RZA's strong east coast
accent was very distracting at times but I don't think that was a huge
flaw, it's just a matter of taste and that's what the director wanted
so I can respect that. There were a lot of cheesy moments. Some of the
dialogue was cheesy and even certain points in the movie, you kind of
whisper to yourself "Really?!" But knowing Quentin and RZA they both
are Kung Fu lovers so I looked over the cheesy moments because I knew
they were just paying homage to all of the Kung Fu movies that they
grew up watching. It would have been nice to have a more detailed plot.
Some characters weren't established well enough to care for them, but
with me I didn't want to care I just wanted to see some flying kicks
and daggers. Those nappy ass wigs that the Wolf Clan made me want to
chew bricks. The hairstylist should be fired but, again, it's all a
matter of taste. That was just a creative choice made by the director
and I can respect that.Overall, the movie is just a fun flick to go see on a Friday night.
Lots of blood, decapitation, fun martial arts, subliminal dirty jokes,
sarcastic humor, special effects, and a unique, urban take on the
classic Kung Fu films we've learn to love over the years. This is not a
movie you waste your time dissecting. You either love it or you hate. I
took the movie for what it was and I loved every minute of it. It had
everything an action flick should have, great action, great costumes,
great weapons, solid plot and good actors.Congratulations, RZA on your first film. I'm sure he can'y do anything
but get better. He definitely has a vivid mind and I'm anxious to see
how he evolves.Lastly, whenever you're reading a review, make sure you learn how to
decipher an authentic review from that of an upcoming filmmaker. We all
tend to be very hard on each other and ourselves. A lot of these
reviews, contain inhibitions about creative taste rather than the movie
itself. No one cares about what you would have done differently. All
they care about is if it's worth their ten, fifteen, twenty dollars.
That is all.
