7
A good movie that could have been great.

Michael R. Roskam burst onto the scene a few years back with "Bullhead"
which was deservedly nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign
Language Film. In his first English language, American film, Roskam works with a
script by the great author Dennis Lehane to tell the story of Brooklyn
bartender Bob, waitress Nadia, has-been Cousin Marv, and the mysterious
Eric Deeds. The plot of "The Drop" has been done before to various degrees, and
Lehane's script was surprisingly predictable. Although the material
wasn't particularly fresh, the actors and a few strong scenes make it
worthwhile.Hardy, although a bit inconsistent, delivers a quietly great
performance. You just want to give the guy a hug. Gandolfini is
unsurprisingly fantastic in his final big screen performance. He plays
to perfection a middle aged has-been that's ticked off with what his
life has become. The direction they took with his character was
predictable and left me very disappointed, but I'm happy that his last
performance was this good. Noomi Rapace arguably gave the best
performance in the film, and probably the best supporting actress I've
seen so far this year. She does a great job playing a damaged woman
trying to lead a good life, and her scenes with Hardy (and the dog!)
are some of the best of the movie. Schoenaerts (who was sensational in
Roskam's Bullhead) is good, but not given too much to do with a
one-dimensional character. And the dog! Rocco! One of the all-time
great dog performances in my opinion.The movie is also really funny at times (mainly Gandolfini in the first
half hour and Hardy with the dog). It drags a bit at times, and like I
said above the script could have been a lot better.... but it's still a
very good movie that easily could have been a great one with a few
changes. I'll still see it again, and I'm sure it will stay in my top
10 of the year.And as a huge fan of James Gandolfini, I'm sad to say this is the last
time we'll ever see him on the big screen. But I'm happy that Roskam
did him justice with one last great performance. RIP to one of the
all-time greats.
