5
Not buying it

The down-home music...the worn down working folk...the unspoken
black/white solidarity of Steeltown, USA...the little leftist
touches..the deer hunt...the self-consciously meditative pacing...the
quiet dignity...nope, not buying it! Russell Baze is too tragic/heroic.
The whole thing drips with so much gritty authenticity that it parodies
itself. I don't believe that life is actually like this wherever it is
that this movie was filmed. Now, don't get me wrong. I'm not saying
that working-class life isn't hard, that working folk don't struggle,
or that tragedies like this don't happen. I'm saying that they got the
tone wrong. I did a Google image search for the director and he looked
exactly how I was expecting him to look: a gin-and-tonic sipping LA man
right out of SWINGERS...callow and earnest...enthusiastic...ultimately
an attractive dupe with no real style and nothing to say...someone who
tells himself that he really wants to tell a sincere story about real
people...and why shouldn't I get paid handsomely for it? I am an
artist!I can imagine Mr. Cooper sipping cocktails in Hollywood with his
screenwriter pals, getting excited as they come up with more and more
little touches of quiet authenticity to stick in the screenplay. "I've
got an idea! When his dad dies he gets a jailhouse memorial tattoo!
Yeah!"My very limited contact with people who have succeeded as screenwriters
in LA has led me to a theory. I think there is a perfect intelligence
range to write and produce the kind of movies that make money. Maybe
intelligence isn't the word. You have to be sharp and observant enough
to be able to seize and reproduce the dominant (ideological) discourse
in such a way that it is palatable to the movie-going public and
emotionally immature enough not to want to step outside of this
discourse. The best is when you hit the sweet spot right at the
intersection of pure commercial film-making and "artisty". Scott Cooper
is a perfect example of the kind of ideal, well-paid dupe I am talking
about...fake vision, fake gravitas, fake art, but well-packaged and
intelligent enough to be a sure investment. In short, this movie feels like someone's voyeuristic fantasy of
working-class authenticity and not a real portrait of life in a place
like Braddock. It also feels a lot longer than it is. Also, the cast is
good, but everyone is miscast.
