6
Average

A cliché trying desperately to be different.Don't get me wrong - this is not a bad movie. The directing,
cinematography, and art direction is great; in other words, it looks
pretty. The performances were good. Unfortunately, those two elements
only barely managed to salvage this film, which meanders with a
predictable plot and YA tropes.We meet Guy, who's not conventionally handsome or bad-looking, is not
really interesting, possesses no engaging backstory, and seems like a
pretty decent human being but people (or girls) just think he's a
loser. Then we get his sidekicks (aka subplots) that are painfully
trite: the guy who salivates at the sight of breasts; and the other guy
who's in a committed relationship and for some reason seems terrified
of his girlfriend (and we never get a real reason why). They are
written to be funny to try and provide some comic relief.And of course, we have Girl. Girl in this story is not likable (in
fact, none of the characters are). Girl is named Margo, who is the next
door neighbor to Guy (Quentin or Q). Guy meets Girl, falls in love with
her, and of course, they drift apart because Girl becomes popular. Girl
decides to just disappear after one night of a last adventure with Q.
Apparently, she just leaves a lot. Her mother is not worried, just
weary. Her parents don't even bother to file a missing person's report.Margo is selfish. Her best friend Lacey soon comes to realize that, but
not soon enough. Q, deluded in a fantasy of what he wanted Margo to be,
sets off on a journey from their home in Orlando to a paper town called
Agleo, New York - all based on clues Margo left behind. Subplots and
Margo's best friend tag along because why the heck not, carpe diem, and
all that sh*t.There were many moments during the 109 minutes of this film where I
cringed. Literally. When the hot, popular girl with great hair has been
unfairly labeled as The Slut, she dispels that misconception and
clarifies that she actually has got brains and is going off to
Dartmouth. And that's all we get from this character. In fact, none of
the supporting characters worked. They were just as paper as Margo
lamented about the boring, humdrum inhabitants of their Orlando suburb. Perhaps a highlight of this movie is the charm that Nat Wolff delivers
in his performance as the love-sick puppy, Q. Despite the blandness of
his character, Wolff maintained a certain je ne sais quoi, even when he
was being a complete idiot.
