10
Being a huge fan it's an enormous pleasure to watch.

'EVIL DEAD': Five Stars (Out of Five)The first five star movie of 2013 is this long awaited reboot to
writer/director Sam Raimi's 1981 cult classic original 'THE EVIL DEAD'.
It's a loose sequel that finds a new group of young adults stumbling
across the 'book of the dead', from the original trilogy, in the same
cabin that iconic hero Ash and his friends did in the original two
films. Raimi and actor Bruce Campbell (who played Ash) have returned as
producers of the film (along with their buddy Robert G. Tapert, who
produced the original three films). Raimi picked Fede Alvarez to make
his feature film debut directing and co-writing the film (along with
Rodo Sayagues and Diablo Cody). It stars Jane Levy (from TV's
'SUBURGATORY'), Shiloh Fernandez, Lou Taylor Pucci, Jessica Lucas and
Elizabeth Blackmore. Levy plays Mia and she's supposed to reprise the
role for two more films, the last of which is supposed to link this new
film series to the adventures of Ash and the original films (following
a 'ARMY OF DARKNESS 2' movie). I grew up on these films and am
extremely excited to see Raimi and Campbell picking the series up again
and think they're off to a great start.The story picks up 30 years after the original 'THE EVIL DEAD' film
ended with a new group of kids going to the same cabin so Mia (Levy)
can try to detox and get over her opiate addiction. Her friends Eric
(Pucci), Olivia (Lucas), Natalie (Blackmore) and brother David
(Fernandez) are there as well to help her get through it. They come
across the 'book of the dead' (the Naturom Demonto) from the original
films, in the cellar and Eric foolishly reads from it (despite several
warnings not to). He of course awakens the dead and Mia is possessed.
The others originally think she's just going through withdrawals but
they soon find themselves being taken over and killed off one by one as
they fight the deadites for their survival.The film was made on a budget of just $17 million (which is a lot
higher than the original film obviously but a pretty small budget by
Hollywood standards). The filmmakers decided not to use CGI (except for
touch ups) and filmed for 70 days. The results are definitely
rewarding. The film really has that 'old school' classic slasher film
feel to it and it's surprisingly loyal to the original films (in
style). It's lacking the power of a performance like Bruce Campbell's
but it is really funny and satirical (more so than the first film I
think but not it's sequels). The violence and gore is out of control
(It was first rated NC-17, like the original) and it really is a true
hardcore horror film; it's truly exhilarating and relentless. I think
the filmmakers did about as good a job as they possibly could rebooting
this classic series and being a huge fan it's an enormous pleasure to
watch. I have no real complaints; it's a masterpiece just like the
original film and it's sequels!Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gn0mEP_zzoQ
