5
The Best & Worst Twilight.

This is the first time I sat in a theatre to watch a Twilight movie. I
think the theatre experience maybe helped me enjoy the film more than I
should have. Nevertheless, Breaking Dawn Part II is not only the best
entry in the franchise, it's also the worst. How can that be? For a
good 20 minutes, the film tries to be daring and does something
different. Yet it is all undone by playing it safe and ruining what
came before it. I have to stress that yes, this film did NOT have to be broken up into
two. The first film was an hour and a half of filler, followed by 20
minutes of awesomeness. This entry is an hour and a half of build-up,
followed by 20 minutes of awesomeness X10, followed by the worst
decision the series has ever made to date.I have seen every Twilight movie, I'm not a fan, nor am I a hater. I'm
always objective when it comes to these movies. The highest rating I've
given one of them is a 5, that went to Eclipse. Breaking Dawn Part II
could have easily gotten a 7 from me, had they had the balls to go
through with what we were witnessing. A twist so inane, that it
actually made me boo at the screen. I don't think I've ever booed at
any movie in the theatre before, so congratulations Breaking Dawn Part
II, you achieved something. Now, that awesomeness that I was speaking of, it is indeed awesome. I
was cheering, I was laughing, I was having a blast. The people around
me, I'm assuming fans, were gasping at the carnage they were
witnessing. I had a giant smile on my face. Did the creators finally
take the series in a bold direction? Did they finally have the balls to
do something different? Yes, they did, but then they ruin it. I can't
stress how awful that made me feel.K-Stew, finally has something to do other than swoon over Edward,
resist the urges from Jacob and act like a whiny teenager. She is a
vampire, so she has to learn to be one, although it seems she has no
problem with the thirst and heightened senses. There is no struggle for
her, which makes this whole aspect a bit shallow. Jacob, unfortunately
has nothing to do in this entry other than glare at everyone who comes
near Renesmee. So the character shifts his focus from one girl to the
next, nothing more for him to do, yawn. Speaking of Renesmee (stupid name), we have what is probably one of the
creepiest babies to ever grace the silver screen. Why they chose to use
CGI for the face of the baby, other than using a normal one is beyond
me. It looks unnatural and comical. The movement doesn't flow and for
some reason they decide to keep this CGI face with the kid as she grows
older until they finally have the older actress in the role.As with every Twilight film, there are moments of unintentional
laughter, bad acting, dialogue and CGI. Michael Sheen seems to be
having fun acting like a complete weirdo and the others seem to be
happy they are finished with this series. Now, to be completely honest,
this entire saga could have been told in three movies. Twilight for the
set up, Eclipse for conflict, Breaking Dawn for the closure. Eliminate
the pointless New Moon and condense these two movies into one. Twilight is finally over. No more sparkling vampires, no more team
Edwards or team Jacobs and no more shirtless scenes of young men. Good
bye Twilight, I do not look forward to the inevitable remakes.
