7
HK Auteur Review - 2 Guns

2 Guns is reminiscent of buddy cop movies in the late eighties and
nineties. Unlike a lot of recent throwback 80's action films, it
tastefully retains much of the fun factor by concentrating on character
and dialogue and removing some of the modern tropes that have gone
stale, like overloading the film with pop culture references. With its
setup and buddy dynamic, at times it actually reminded me of the 1996
Adam Sandler and Damon Wayons buddy cop movie Bulletproof.What elevated 2 Guns from standard action fare were exactly the snappy
lines and the buddy dynamic between Washington and Wahlberg. The two
lead actors create a believable long-time friendship and it gave the
movie a sizzling charm that you just can't look away from. Watching
Walhberg and Washington rapidly throw zingers back and forth alone made
the price of admission. After seeing his facetious performance in this
film, it's easy now to imagine Mark Wahlberg taking over the role of
Tony Stark in future Marvel films.The film has a good supporting cast. James Marsden and Edward James
Olmos seem overqualified for these supporting roles. It's nice to see
them but they have too little time to truly shine. Paula Patton is cast
in a seemingly intelligent female role, but is ultimately there for her
sex appeal. Bill Paxton is the only one who gets to properly chew up
some scenery as a scary CIA agent with a flair for torturing his
victims.The story moved along fast like a shark, for fear that stopping for a
thoughtful pause would ruin its momentum and shatter the illusion of
how complicated the plot seems. The action scenes are fun. More
importantly, they are visible and you can follow what's going on. When
it came to the finale, the film forgoes all the dramatic buildup from
the first two acts and serves a lesser solution to its conflict. Had it
been a slower moving story with less charming leads, I would have
considered the finale a cop out ending.But this time, I just went with it. 2 Guns just oozes old school charm,
and charm can go a long way.For more reviews, please visit my film blog @
http://hkauteur.wordpress.com
