6
The Queen and I

"Victoria and Abdul" is a British/American movie from this year (2017)
that runs for 110 minutes and is the newest work by Oscar nominees
Stephen Frears and Lee Hall, who adapted the novel this is based on. It
is about the unlikely relationship (not sexual) between a man and a
much older woman from very different social backgrounds. Sounds a bit
like Harold & Maude, but it is actually closer to Driving Miss Daisy I
would say. The title of my review basically refers to the fact that the
film starts and ends with the Indian man, but it is at least as much
about Oscar winner Judi Dench's Queen Victoria, so both are lead
without a doubt. Ali Fazal is probably only known to Bollywood fans at
this point, but this film could change that. He holds his own well next
to Dench most of the time, but you also need to say that his character
is really not that challenging and in terms of performances it is all
about Dench. There's no way she will cruise through awards season like
another Queen from a Frears film, but a nomination seems pretty
possible. The win is not an option though I think. Still Dench is
without a doubt one of the biggest highlights here and she is hitting
all the right notes from start to finish. I read a while ago she may be
going blind, but it seems it is not true (luckily!) because otherwise
she could not give performances like the one in here. Another thing
that puts her character right in the middle of the film is that we only
find out about crucial factors from Abdul's life like his marriage the
very same time Victoria does.There is also a lot of comedy to this film and even if it is basically
always the same like the people around the two not understanding how
they can be this close it never gets repetitive. But these "comedy
people" also get crucial dramatic significance like Abdul's
friend/colleague (and what happens to him at the end) or the people
next to the Queen that result in treason actually and also in Dench's
maybe most spectacular acting moment when she talks about her potential
incapacitation. Dench shines on many more occasions though and it's
fitting her character comes first in the title. She is an actress that
has really grown on me over the years and she was also tremendous in
Steve Coogan's Philomena recently. But back to this one here: It is a
film that delivers on many fronts, not just the acting, namely the
historic component to actual events, the period piece factor, the
comedy, the tragedy, the drama etc. Weak moments were very rare like
the infertility, gonorrhea part or also the question why the other
servant was not allowed back to India earlier with his health
declining. But still the positive was way more frequent here and this
film has at least as many great as weaker moments, so as a whole it
meets in the middle on a steadily strong level. A must-see for Dench
fans, a good watch for everybody else too. Go check it out.
