8
February is a flawed film. It is also a fantastic film.

February is a flawed film. It is also a fantastic film. It takes place in the middle of a cold, snowy Canadian winter at an
all-girls boarding school. The winter break is approaching and all the
girls are picked up by their parents to spend a week at home. The
exception is Kat (Kiernan Shipka), a very young girl whose parents
don't show up and she begins to fear them dead, and Rose (Lucy
Boynton), an older girl who has lied to her parents because she wanted
to spend the break alone at the school. As time goes on, Kat gets more
and more worried about her parents and acting stranger and stranger.
Meanwhile, a couple of towns over, another young lady, Joan (Emma
Roberts), escapes from a mental institution. She seems to be on the
move toward the boarding school where the other two girls are. I would
advise against seeing trailers or looking up anything further about the
plot, this movie is best experienced with no preconceptions of the
sub-genre or where it is going, because it leaves you most open to what
it tries to do. The magic of this movie is mostly in its extremely distinct mood, an
almost undefinable aura or quality to it. All of the aspects of film
making mirror the cold, snowy winter - music, the pace, the character
interactions. The characters speak lazily, morbidly to each other,
everything has a hint of cold tension underneath it. I've never seen a
horror movie with this particular type of mood, and I always welcome
unique experiences. The script is also expertly crafted. I like how subtly the mystery is
revealed to the viewer - it is not spoon-fed at any point, and it is
quite well-concealed for at least the first half of the movie. We only
get pieces that almost seem impossible to fit together, yet they come
together in a perfectly obvious and coherent conclusion. On top of
that, the story radiates an overwhelming sadness which elicited a very
strong emotional response from me personally. Mostly due to Shipka's
amazing acting, which stole every scene (the other two girls are great
too, just overshadowed by the youngest cast member). She really
captures the desolate emptiness required of her role. The flaws are really mostly superficial, and a product of the fact that
the movie was made by a relatively young cast. The director clearly has
a good eye for morbid beauty, and he has made a movie that is much more
artistic than the average horror, but I still found that some of his
stylistic choices were cheesier and more generic than he seems to think
they were. He's still a very talented guy, he just needs to find a more
humble and grounded balance between innovation and reference. Still
can't wait until he makes another horror though, I will definitely be
following him!
