1
Review from a guy - "The most disgraceful sequel I have ever seen. 2 hours of talking"

I thoroughly enjoyed watching the original with my girlfriend. It was
full of awesome shirtless - original group choreography with a bit of a
silly romance thrown in.This sequel however (if you can even call it that) is nothing but a
disgrace to the first movie. I can't believe that any of these guys
even allowed themselves to star in this crap, let alone allow it to hit
the box office.I'm just going to be blunt and let it all 'hang out' in this review:1. Scenes in this movie 'drag' (no pun intended) on forever. People
won't shut the hell up for one second to allow these guys to dance.
This movie is basically a 2 hour long conversation. SERIOUSLY. 2. Again, from the amount of talking I'm surprised this movie wasn't
labeled a 'fictional documentary' on these guy's lives. As there is
nothing in this movie except a bunch of dudes complaining about their
lives and how 'bad' their luck is with women. YEAH REALLY.3. There is no skill in ANY of the dancing, and there is no
choreography AT ALL. The only GOOD scene is a 90 second routine that
Channing (Mike) does right at the start in his garage. The rest of the
'dancing' is actually just humping/soft porn and watching the guys
'slide around' on the floor.4. There are no group routines. All the guys talked on the bus about
how they need to invent something 'big' for their finale, but all of
the routines are solo. ALL of them. And the only routine that 'wasn't'
was one that was still semi-solo and just consisted of the boys doing a
30 second catwalk each one after the other for 5 minutes.5. All of the women are hideously ugly. Now I'm sorry for saying this
but 50% of the so called 'dancing' scenes are just close ups of hideous
looking women with over exaggerated expressions on their faces. It's
like the director went out to look for the ugliest women he could find,
and then threw them into the movie in order to try and make the guys
look 'hotter' and stand out more.6. The scene with the nameless 'MC/Rapper' guy was so freaking bad that
it was incredibly painful to watch. It was so out of place being put
just 2 minutes after the only other awesome dance routine in the movie
which was performed by a unnamed black guy.7. Crowd reactions were so over exaggerated, forced and were so loud
that it made it hard to focus on what little tiny scraps of dancing
there even was.8. There were so many scenes that were so dark. For example the 10
minute long, awkward and pointless scene of Channing chatting up some
random girl on the beach at night who was taking photos of him
urinating (WTF?). Another example is all the food truck scenes. It was
really hard to see anything throughout the whole movie.9. The pointless fight scenes were a bore to watch and I didn't
understand the need for any of the arguing or exhibitions of male
testosterone.10. None of the guy's personalities in this sequel were remotely
interesting or entertaining. We have the old silent bearded guy (Kevin
Nash). The jackass loud mouthed Armenian (Joe Manganiello). The
annoying 'spiritual guy' always talking about negative energy (Matt
Bomer) and the useless truck driver dude who gets taken out less than
half way through the movie (Gabriel Iglesias). Last but not least
there's Mike (Channing Tatum) who does nothing remotely noteworthy in
the entire movie despite being 'the star of the show'.I would have given even 1 more star if it had been even just 30 minutes
shorter. The movie could have been at least 1 hour shorter if you
removed all of the completely pointless talking and irrelevant
nonsense. There was absolutely NO excuse for making it so long.Overall a disgrace and major respect lost to Channing and everyone else
who starred in this garbage. I can't believe this director is
responsible for Oceans 11, 12 & 13 which were some of my favourite
movies.Save your money, it's not even worth the paper the ticket was printed
on.
