7
Way better on second watch

The Snowman was right from the start panned with bad reviews. But I
found this film was way better on the second viewing, just like Tomas
Alfredsons Tinker Taylor Soldier Spy was. Exactly the same way! And
that says a lot. Alfredson likes to do some subtle moves.When I saw this at a large outdoor pre-screening at the film's location
Rjukan two days before the world premiere, I must admit I agreed to the
rather bad reviews saying it's a 3 or 4/10. There were too many strange
things which didn't make sense to me. Whatæs up with coffee bean thing?
Why snowmen? Why this and that seemingly unmotivated scene? Well, I saw it again tonight, at peace with myself in a complete packed
cinema, and everything was clear right from the start, though this film
is in fact a murder mystery, and not a horror movie.I even found the drunken police man Val Kilmer's role quite decent the
second time, and much of the acting was superb. I must admin I found
Charlotte Gainsbourg over-playing a couple of times, and so with young
Michael Yates as Oleg, but probably something they were asked to do.The photo is exquisite, the locations are interesting and beautiful,
the cold and the feel is chilling, though i guess the film has been cut
to much in the start. It's really difficult to follow what's happening
in the first 1/3. More than this being a bad script or bad directing, I
think it's but cut to pieces. Some parts makes no sense, before you the
mystery bricks fell into place at the second view.So i really recommend those of you who have questions after the first
viewing to go see it, or more likely put it on, once more. It's really
not that bad at all. It's actually a quite decent serial murder mystery
thriller.I also think this film is poised to be a box office success, though
panned with the bad reviews, and so the makers, investors and actors
will all laugh all the way to the bank. Maybe the film even will be
labeled underrated in a few years. It wouldn't surprise me, now after
my second view.Go see it again! And if you only saw Tinker Taylor Soldier Spy one,
make sure you also watch that one also a second time. You might say
with some right that a film isn't good enough if you have to watch it
twice to really appreciate it, but then again that's what some might
say is a mystery.
