4
While Vin Diesel is hunting for witches, you might be hunting for some sense

If Vin Diesel is planning to star in another franchise after the
successes of The Fast and the Furious and Riddick, he has another think
coming. There is a fair bit of action that makes use of Diesel's
physical presence but the movie is bogged down in expository dialogue
and a story that is incomprehensible at times. It also doesn't help
when the majority of the film is set at night with quite a few of the
action scenes being difficult to see.Kaulder (Vin Diesel) is an 800 year old warrior whose main goal in life
is to rid the world of witches. Just before he succeeds in eliminating
the Witch Queen (Julie Engelbrecht), she curses him with immortality.
We next see him in present day where he is still fighting the evil
forces, this time with a priest bestowed with the title of Dolan 36th
(Michael Caine). Realising that he can't continue forever unlike his
immortal friend, Dolan 36th introduces Kaulder to another priest in
Dolan 37th (Elijah Wood) who will take over the reigns as Kaulder's
sidekick. Joining them is a good witch named Chloe (Rose Leslie),
otherwise known as a dream walker.Vin Diesel has a limited acting range but makes use of it in this type
of role where he is the action hero although he's not as convincing as
he is in the Fast and the Furious series. That's probably because the
wisecracks are funnier and the character of Dominic Toretto is more
fleshed out. Two time Oscar winner Michael Caine has a small role and
is in a coma for most of the film. He once said of his Jaws 4: The
Revenge role that the house that Jaws built was terrific so the role of
Dolan 37th must have financed his holidays. Elijah Wood displays his
dramatic abilities and is involved in a twist which is preposterous. The editing is fast and furious at times which makes it difficult to
focus on what's happening in the action sequences. They seem to be
well-choreographed with the exemplary sound effects bringing the fight
scenes to life. Most of the visual effects are of the CGI variety and
make a solid contribution to the look of the film. No matter how
successful or unsuccessful a film is with the technological side of
things, if the story is inferior like it is in this film, the overall
impact suffers. There is a lack of tension for this particular genre
and if you can remember the majority of the film after seeing it,
you're doing much better than I am.The Last Witch Hunter is a forgettable movie that has better action
sequences than plot lines and dialogue. Vin Diesel has shown in the
past that he can carry a movie, just not this one. The box office
reception suggests that he should stick to the Fast and the Furious
franchise. http://mlaimlai2.wix.com/magical-movie-review
