7
A spooky and faithful entry in Wan's 'Conjuring' universe

I first want to gloss over Ouija: Origin of Evil, as Annabelle:
Creation is heavily inspired by that film. It's a 1960s R-rated horror
prequel to a lackluster origin film starring Lulu Wilson based on
possession & exorcism, ultimately tying in strongly with its
predecessor. As I felt Origin of Evil had strong plot development,
acting (though Wilson isn't the standout here that she was in O:OoE),
cinematography, and overall eeriness, I could say most of the same
things for Annabelle: Creation, though I find them all just a notch
below.Given the time period that this film takes place, the technology that
was present served this film very well in the throwback sense, either
because it doesn't make the characters too idiotic to not rely on their
technology more often, or it doesn't allow the supernatural to
manipulate their technology too much to the point of ridiculousness.
Even traditional items like a bell (similar to The Uninvited), a well
(similar to The Ring), or a dumbwaiter (many horror films) work because
of the particular time period that it's in and add to the atmosphere
the film builds up. Several elements like this were heavily in play and
made for a fun setting.Here's where I have a mixed bag of positive/negative, and it has to do
with the direction. James Wan is clearly a heavy influence for David
Sandberg (Lights Out), but part of me feels like Sandberg and crew
watched Wan's Conjuring films, created a checklist, and tried their
best to check all of those boxes. It makes for great horror, but part
of it makes me feel like I've seen it all before. If Wan was directing,
I think he would find a new way to shoot certain scenes and present
certain items. Given the setting I was referring to before, I saw all
of the foreshadowing coming into play a bit too easily. It's like it
was all on-the-nose. You also can telegraph all of the jump scares.
That doesn't mean they weren't still effective and that the film wasn't
still scary on its own (trust me, there are plenty of non-jump-scare
moments that are still very good), but I feel like I just saw a Wan
copycat instead of Wan himself is all. I mean that's not a bad thing,
because I considered Wan as the new master of horror before he decided
to become an action director. Just food for thought is all.Now I will give Sandberg some credit. He played with out-of-focus
scenery more than Wan had in the past, making us look in the dark areas
or the background to see if something was lurking about. I also think
he included more shock factor regarding when things can occur (daytime,
early stages of the film) and how at-risk all of the children really
were, making them all vulnerable to victimization by injury,
possession, and/or death. I also think that without a star-studded
adult cast it was a lot easier to give the child actors a lot of
limelight, to the point that I knew all of them really quickly (in The
Conjuring, I couldn't tell you a single one's name as they were more
pawns for Wilson and Farmiga). Every so often he would let the camera
cut away for the scary thing to appear/disappear/move and such, but
then sometimes he would just say "screw it" and do it right in the shot
just to mess with the audience, who was thoroughly engaged in this film
from start to finish.The thing I think most people have to remember about this film, which I
sometimes forget myself, is that Annabelle is just a doll... creepy
looking, but just a doll nonetheless. She's not like Slappy or Chucky,
where the doll is the soul in and of itself. The doll may act as a
conduit for the demon however; we have known this since The Conjuring.
However, this demon can also do it in its own form, or into a human, or
anything else that it wants to... even more than one place at a time.
Makes it kind of strange that Annabelle still remains the highlight of
the film by the title, but these films are less about the doll and more
about the entity, and that's fine with me. I just have to keep
reminding myself that.I want to close by saying that these films (Conjuring 1 & 2, Annabelle
& prequel, Ouija & prequel) remind me a lot of the Paranormal Activity
film franchise: despite a different setting and finding new ways to try
and scare the audience, the story largely remains the same. Big family
in big house dealing with possession and finding a way to exorcise it.
Personally, I dig them all, but they aren't reinventing the wheel, so
don't assume this is a fresh new take on the genre. However, given that
Annabelle was so poorly received, you had to assume that if they were
making this film, they likely said: "Let's make sure that doesn't
happen again, so what can we do differently?" They found it, and it's
called Annabelle: Creation. Very good, though I've kind of seen it
before. That's okay though, because it ain't broke. I just don't know
how much longer it can last and still bring in myself and other
audiences.
