5
Visually Generic

This is the second Snow White adaptation released this year except this
one is designed as an action, adventure. Both are not quite outstanding
but they gave some interesting twists to the story. Unfortunately,
there is something gold about this but it cares too much to the visuals
than anything else. There are also scenes that are taken from other
fantasy, epic movies. It's good looking, but good looking is not always
enough.The twist is pretty interesting. The Evil Queen's tragic past, more
significance to The Huntsman, turning Snow White into a gritty
protagonist. Though the dwarfs are the same in Tarsem Singh's version.
These elements could have made this a memorable and fresh adaptation,
but they just threw these things to the film lazily. The plotting is
mediocre which made the second act a bit boring. The action is nothing
but looking good. It looks fascinating but you'll rarely see a real
fight.You already know what Kristen Stewart and Chris Hemsworth will do but
the audiences are more interested to Charlize Theron's performance. She
sort of hammed it up when in rage but she does it pretty well in the
rest. Another attraction to this is the visuals. Like I said, it's too
pretty. It's never wrong for the visuals to be pretty especially to a
film called Snow White. It's too pretty, they already careless about
the plot. Decided to choose the generic way. Heroes meeting new
friends, settle down, fight, settle down. Just waiting for the climax
to come without any much development.I'm starting to think when I first saw it, it's like Ridley Scott's
Robin Hood. It's an old tale with a charismatic protagonist turned into
a gritty one, but this one is a bit different. It refuses to be gritty
and wants to be pretty and generic. The real action is few, the effect
of drama is limited. The visuals can be spellbinding but anything else
is just empty. There is a good story in the film but it's told in a
generic way with a generic plot and filled with stuff that is borrowed
from other films. One might enjoy it by its looks but if you care for
more than that then it will be unsatisfying. Snow White and the
Huntsman can be part of those clichéd modern fantasy movies like Clash
of the Titans, Conan The Barbarian, and Immortals. But at least this
film is the best of its kind. It's not bad nor good. It's just a waste
of potential of a new good film.
