8
This could be the Wolverine movie fans always wanted.

2009's X-men Origins: Wolverine was received negatively by both critics
and the majority of the fans of the character. Now the character has a
chance to redeem himself with this year's the Wolverine and for the
most part he does. This film has really tried to please the fans as it
was loosely based on the beloved Japan story line from the comics and
it is clear that the film has tried to fix the problems that were
complained about in the previous solo Wolverine film. Despite taking
place after the events of X-men: The Last Stand this film attempts to
distance itself from the rest of the X-men characters and story and
focuses solely on the Wolverine character and as a result this film
feels very different to all previous X-men films. This allows for the
best portrayal of Wolverine's character that we have seen so far and
Hugh Jackman also delivers his best performance of the character to
date. I really enjoyed the pacing of the film as well because although
it was a face paced action film it wasn't afraid to slow things down
and develop the characters and the relationships between them. However
it never slows down for too long before it picks up the pace with
another action scene. The action in this film is also very well done
because every sequence is creative and has a purpose so it never feels
like the mindless action we've come to expect in big budget summer
films. Humour is also used effectively in this film as the writers take
advantage of Wolverine's IDGAF attitude. However the film isn't perfect
as there is one other mutant character that occasionally seems slightly
out of place and some people might find her character a bit too over
the top. Also from time to time it does feel like they are playing it
too safe to insure that they don't make any of the same mistakes as the
last Wolverine film. Overall The Wolverine, although not perfect, is a
fun superhero film that gets a lot of things right about what makes the
Wolverine character so popular.
