8
Very unique film worth checking out

This is the type of film that is hard to categorize and will be hated
by many. Yet, if you are a film lover, one who loves to see filmmakers
push the art to new territory, you should definitely put this fairly
high on your to-watch list.Hardcore Henry is an action film that is presented entirely from a 1st
person perspective. If you have played FPS (first person shooter) video
games, it will be similar; if you have not, you will watch the movie
through the protagonist's eyes and will only see their hands and feet
in some scenes. I have seen some films where the 1st person view is
used for portions but Hardcore Henry is the second film that I have
seen that is fully 1st person.One downside to the film is that the plot is kind of weak. It is very
stereotypical and farcical at times. Perhaps the director and writer
wanted it to resemble a video game, many of which have similar
simplistic plots. The camera-work can also be very dizzying during some
crazy scenes so some people won't like it. Just survive through those
scenes and you may get used to it.Depending on your musical tastes, you may also like the music and
soundtrack in the film. The music is very eclectic and covers a diverse
genre, with it tilting towards electronic punk rock type. I thought it
was quite good and have even ordered the soundtrack (one is the music
while the other is the soundtrack so order the one you want). The use
of music reminds me of the film, Drive (unrelated to this).The film also uses real stunts, as opposed to much computer graphics,
so that is a plus. There is a YouTube video showing behind the scenes
and these guys executed some crazy stunts.Overall, I found the film very creative and unique and highly recommend
it. The film itself is kind of weak--plot, acting, etc are typical--but
it deserves high praise for its creativity. I think this is the type of
film one should see at least once in their life. Even if you don't like
it, you will at least remember how unique it is and remember what the
art of film is all about.
