7
On Board With Modern-Day Pirates!

"Captain Phillips" is the Hollywood retelling of the true-to-life 2009
harrowing story of an American container vessel Maersk Alabama (with
Captain Richard Phillips at the helm) being held hostage by Somali
pirates. The screenplay by Billy Ray was based on the novel "A
Captain's Duty: Somali Pirates, Navy SEALs, and Dangerous Days at Sea"
written by Captain Richard Phillips himself.Playing the titular character, Tom Hanks is what this film is all
about. He starts off simply, playing Capt. Phillips as a family man and
seasoned seaman on a routine delivery. However when the pirates came,
you see him transform into a cool-under-pressure leader and shrewd
tactician, matching wits with these desperate aggressors. In the last
five minutes, Hanks would give us an unexpected display of emotion
which may well deliver him another Oscar for Best Actor.The four Somali-American first-time actors playing the pirates are a
very realistic bunch. They play with wild-eyed and feral intensity,
really scary. Barkhad Abdi plays their skinny foolhardy leader Muse,
engaging Phillips in a deadly chess game, toe-to-toe. Faysal Ahmed
plays the hot-headed Najee, who was the loose cannon of the group.
Barkhad Abdirahman plays the young recruit Bilal, getting himself a
baptism of fire on his first time out. When I saw the name director Paul Greengrass in the credits, I
understood why the sense of tension and urgency were so well-conveyed.
This was that familiar sense of excitement we felt in his previous
films, like the last two Jason Bourne films or that suspenseful 9/11
drama "United 93". He really knows how to make military operations
exciting on screen, as he did for the Army in "Green Zone" and the Navy
SEALS in this film.I have to admit I was on the verge of getting seasick with the
shakiness of the camera, but luckily I held on despite the two-hour
length of the film set at sea.Overall, this is a different sort of adventure drama, with a topic not
too commonly tackled in a mainstream film. We hear of these events on
the news, but this film brings us right in the middle of one. We will
feel the tension building as the pirates were approaching. We will feel
the fear when the pirates were on board. We will feel the desperation
and the frustration of being trapped in the middle of the open ocean
with no help immediately forthcoming. If you are up for such a
realistic experience, then this film is for you.
