2
Deus ex Machina ending

The 2 stars are for what was an intriguing setup that positioned itself
to resolve by way of a clever or satisfying ending based on the rules
the film setup for itself.Disastrously, however, the finale of the film completely abandons all
the "rules" it setup for the situation. Possible spoilers follow....The protagonist establishes that this evil mirror has "predictable"
behavior and the entire film fortifies that theory. In the current as
well as the historical cases, the plants wither on cue, people
dehydrate for some reason before this thing, and it protects itself if
someone attacks it, etc... However, just as another commenter pointed out, they knew the thing had
a range of "power" of about 30 feet, inside of which, it would use the
power of suggestion or whatever to make the person miss-hit or just not
strike. So why not take it out with a rifle?Additionally, the very last few minutes of the movie shifts into a huge
film violation, which is to simply create illusions. What the viewer
and characters are seeing aren't really there, but sometimes, it is
really there. There is no consistency as to when something is there but
really isn't or when something is really there but we and the
characters can't perceive it. There is no consistency with using a
camera to see what is real or not either. So basically, the writers of the film created a canvas from which they
allowed themselves to do absolutely anything they wanted. This is Deus
ex Machina to the extreme. So they just write the characters perceiving
themselves to kill the mirror when in reality they are hallucinating
and one of them ends up getting killed. It is simply poor writing, and
a disastrous, unsatisfying ending. Frankly, with all the hallucinations
and illusions the writers set up by this point, we, the viewers, don't
even have good reason to believe anything in the movie really happened.
What's to stop them from making a sequel that says the last 10 minutes
of the movie were just the protagonists' daydream, they snap out of it
and resume the movie where they snap out of it. There is nothing to
stop the story from going that direction if the writers' feel like it
because they established anything goes, we can fake anything you see,
etc....Besides all that, the acting was generally flat as well. I can't
recommend it.
