1
The trailers lied...Disney should be sued for false advertising!

***Spoliers may be listed below****Maleficent is a an iconic villainous role. She is one of Disney's best
characters cast from the dark side and when I saw the trailer I
succumbed to the beauty they inlaid using Jolie as the sinister evil
fairy. I was seduced to believing that I would be lured into a world of
evil and treachery. I wanted to see how evil was born and vengeance
would be enacted. I wanted to be able to bond with this evil force and
be drawn deep into darkness, rooting for the bad girl. I knew it would
be filled with beautiful scenes and Disney magic, but what I did not
anticipate that the greatest treachery would be the film itself. Jolie can most definitely embrace evil and the moments when she is
allowed to succumb to the full force of Maleficent it is beautiful.
Once you add in Goldie Locks however, you get a recipe for disaster.
Suddenly I might as well be in a world of pink pixie dust, leprechauns
and unicorns because this beautiful villain is disgraced into playing a
role of a misunderstood black hearted fairy who really loved the doe
eyed giggling Aurora. Hell hath no fury than a woman scorned, this should have been the
driving force behind the film. The beginning scenes of a youthful
Maleficent should have been nixed to allow more time to build a love
story that was even remotely believable. To fall from grace the
betrayal has to be tangible and dripping with poison. It must be
something more than just a monologue infatuation and stolen wings. They
said years passed and yet I felt nothing of a bond or great love that
would give birth to Maleficent's destiny.In Disney's Rapunzel the "mother" figure who raised Rapunzel from a
baby never fell in love with the child as a daughter. She was still
greedy, evil and dedicated to her path. So why must the world's most
wonderful villain turn to a soft hearted Godmother of a vapid child. I
know Disney is trending this "don't bet on the prince" idea and that's
fine I support that, but really...they thought this was "no truer
love." If they think the king suffered by simply being tortured with the
countdown till his child's demise then they are sadly mistaken. That
was child's play. A woman changed by betrayal to the dark side has more
ideas in her play-book that can make a man suffer. Madness would have
been the king knowing that Maleficent knew the entire time where Aurora
was hiding. Maleficent should have been sending him snippets of hair or
visions of his daughter with the raven peering down at him while he
slept. He should have been physically and mentally destroyed, a raving
lunatic. I would have rather liked to see a double treachery in the story. That
only the raven knew all along where Aurora was and hid it from his
mistress. We could watch the anger burn and grow within Maleficent
because she wasn't able to find the child for 16 years. That in the
interim the raven would randomly turn into human form and it would have
been those two that fell in love and the tragic day that Maleficent
discovers her location through some fool's errand played by the three
dopey fairies guarding her, absconds with the child and let's the curse
play out its course. Then I would have a mega battle scene at the edge
of the forest against the king, let her have her righteous moment when
she takes his life all the while the king knowing his daughter is stuck
in endless slumber with no hope of her being saved. Then during the
battle the raven after escaping the battlefield leaves Maleficent's
side to try and wake Aurora. When Maleficent discovers her minion's
treachery the pain and anger at being betrayed for a second time by her
own kind would fill her from the pit of her stomach up through her
spine and a black fire filling her eyes transforming to the great
dragon and an epic battle of good and evil which will lead to her
glorious death! That would have at least been something!Then they could have there happier ever after. Then all those still
shots of Maleficent looking like a falling angel in the glimmering
sunlight would have been more picturesque, more visually twisted. Overall, I feel I paid $15 dollars for another movie funded by the
Prozac and Xanax manufacturers that spread fallacies that evil fairies
are really good, vampires are not evil blood suckers and werewolves
make great best friends. It's a snooze and a travesty. If you love the
traditional iconic role of Maleficent remain in darkness and forget the
lies the trailer told you for the glorious black dragon is covered in
daffodils and pink tutus in this film.
