7
The film that truly proves what a visual medium film is

I implore anybody that has seen this movie once, and not liked it, to
watch it once more. This time, however, take into account that film is
a visual medium. Instead of expecting a narrator or a character to
easily explain to you what is happening try paying attention to what is
happening. Examine and truly THINK about what is expressed visually.
The brilliant part about Under The Skin is how well it tells a story
without dialog, without running commentary, and without the central
character saying much at all.Think about the purpose of what the female character is doing. The
entire story tells itself so easily if you let it. The problem with the
modern movie-goer, and admittedly myself, is that we want things
explained to us. We're happy to be treated like ignorant flatheads that
don't know our butts from our elbows. Look at any other review here on
IMDb and pay close attention to what is being criticized. They are
mostly the same things over and over again.They don't criticize what is conveyed through the film's imagery.
Instead, they say things like "Not enough was explained." "This film
had no plot." "The movie went nowhere." or "Nothing happened." At the
risk of sounding smug, I will say that these people are looking for the
wrong things in this movie, or any movie. When going into any new film
it's important to remember the medium you're choosing to entertain you.
It's not like a book on tape, or music. Movies can explain the plot,
story, character motivations, and roles without having to have a
character, or narrator explain it to you.I was one of those people that didn't "get" this film and gave it an
extremely low rating of 1 star. But I decided to change to a 7 after
much reflection on the content and thoughts it provoked afterward.
After reading over 5 or 6 positive I got curious. Why do so many people
think this movie is fantastic and innovative? I implore you to look up
the video review by Renegade Cut.This one video, in addition to Under The Skin, made me rethink what I
think a movie should be. It can be artistic, and different, and
entertaining without following the well established formula for modern
movies. Personally, I feel like people in general are too harsh. A one
star rating should be reserved for terrible films, with nothing to say
at all. Well, that's not this film. It certainly has plenty to say
about what it's like to be an outsider, and what a gift it truly is to
be human.A one star rating should be reserved for the most thoughtless trash in
existence. This isn't even close to that. Was it for me? No, but I
certainly "get" it. I get what the message is, and what it was trying
to do. That I had to think to myself "What did I just watch?" was
enough for a 7 star rating. It made me think, re-evaluate, and wonder.
As much as I like Guardians of the Galaxy, or Indiana Jones, I have to
ask myself "Did either one of those films make me feel this way?" No,
they didn't.And also, do films necessarily have to be for entertainment? To which I
also say no. Films can be about raising a question, or provoking a
thought, or experiencing emotions. Maybe the tedium of a scene evokes
boredom, but what if that's the point of the scene being shown? Look
past your eyes, think about what the director's intent was, and I think
you'll enjoy this one way more on a repeat viewing.
