9
Loved it! Completely funny and silly

I could not wait to see The Secret Life of Pets and I was not
disappointed! I LOVED it! The Secret Life of Pets is an animated comedy
that is both funny and sincere. It is about a dog named Max (Louis
C.K.), his new brother Duke (Eric Stonestreet) and their friends. Max
doesn't like Duke so he does things that he hopes will get him kicked
out of the family home. One day Max comes up with an idea that he hopes
will get Duke taken away. His idea backfires and causes Max and Duke to
get caught and almost sent to the pound. Will Max and Duke get home?
Will their friends find them and help them get home? My favorite character is Gidget (Jenny Slate) who is a white little dog
who likes Max. She is very sweet and kind, but when it comes to helping
her friends, she will fight anyone. This is a funny trait of Gidget's
because she is a super sweet dog but she will fight to protect her
loved ones.My favorite scene is when Duke and Max are in a wiener factory and
there is a little song where the hot dogs come to life. Little kids
might not like this scene because the singing hot dogs get eaten by
Duke and Max and they eat the hot dog's heads off.Though there are many morals to this movie, the most important is "Do
not judge someone before you get to know them." Max doesn't like Duke
when he first comes, but later on he learns to appreciate him. The Secret Life of Pets is a funny cartoon about cute animals, but it
may not appeal to younger audiences. There are some scenes that might
be too scary for little kids. Also, Max and Duke say this to save their
lives but, be forewarned they do say "put their owner in the blender."I recommend The Secret Life of Pets for kids ages 5 to 15 due to the
scary scenes. Older audiences may like this movie if they love animals
and fun cartoons. I rate this movie 5 out of 5 stars because it is
entertaining and about my favorite subject...animals!Reviewed by Mia A., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic.
