10
Most Enjoyable Film of 2012 So Far

I don't even know where to begin when it comes to this film. First of
all, I think it's about time I profess my love for David O'Russell
because he keeps making movies that I simply can't get enough of. If
there's one thing I've learned this year when it comes to movies, it's
find a director you love and follow him or her blindly. There's styles
you'll love, and styles you'll hate, find the ones you click with and
never let go.Silver Linings Playbook has generated a lot of hype since its worldwide
premiere at TIFF, and frankly, as far as I'm concerned, it deserves all
the praise its received. It is by far the best film I saw at the
festival, and is easily one of the most memorable films of 2012. Based
on the novel by Matthew Quick, Silver Linings follows the life of Pat
(Bradley Cooper) as he moves back into his parents' house after
spending months in a mental institution because of a violent outburst
that occurred after he found his wife with another man. The movie
follows Pat as he attempts to get back his life back, but he meets a
new challenge as Tiffany (Jennifer Lawrence, who is completely girl
crush worthy) finds his way into his life.I honestly can't remember the last time I enjoyed a movie more from
beginning to end. O'Russell brilliantly tells a heartwarming, yet
complicated and hilarious tale, that leaves you on the edge of the
seat. The cast is wonderful, and all deserving of nominations in the
2012 award season. If people didn't know of Jennifer Lawrence before,
they will now. She's quirky, complicated, hilarious, and you really
just can't get enough of her. DeNiro also delivers a strong performance
as Cooper's Philadelphia Eagle's loving, somewhat OCD father.If there is one movie worth seeing this year, it's Silver Linings
Playbook. The story may follow a family in a very serious situation,
but we can all identity with the truth and emotions that comes with
struggling through times. It's a story that's easy to connect with, and
it's a film that will make you smile from beginning to end. Catch this
movie when it comes out in November, and I promise you, you won't
regret it.For more Reviews Check out.
