6
Soderbergh's passable Hitchcock-like thriller, doesn't always add up

Steven Soderbergh's 'Side Effects', first appears as if it's designed
as a critique of psychiatry and the pharmaceutical industry.
Ultimately, it becomes more like a Hitchcock thriller. It's a film that
keeps your interest but you'll have to suspend your disbelief quite a
bit, to appreciate it.Rooney Mara (looking quite more appealing than her stint as angry Goth
in 'The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo'), plays Emily Taylor, a seemingly
depressed wife of her husband Martin (Channing Tatum), who has just
come home after doing four years in prison for insider trading.When it appears that she tries to kill herself by slamming her car into
a wall in a parking garage, she's assigned to a psychiatrist, Dr.
Jonathan Banks (winningly played by Jude Law). Banks is a fairly
typical psychiatrist who prescribes one psychotropic medication after
another, hoping that Emily's mood will change. Still feeling forlorn,
Banks consults with Emily's former psychiatrist, Victoria (Catherine
Zeta-Jones) who recommends that Emily be placed on a new experimental
drug, Ablixa. Banks takes the pharmaceutical company's money and
convinces Emily to participate in the study.The stakes are raised when seemingly despondent Emily stabs husband
Martin to death but claims she can't remember anything and blames
everything on the Ablixa. Suddenly, Banks is no longer the complacent
psychiatrist but is now a scapegoat, as the press blames him for
dispensing the medication which everyone assumes is the cause of
Emily's violent outburst. His patients start leaving him in droves and
he's investigated by the State Licensing Board. Furthermore, the
pharmaceutical company drops him as one of the testers of the Ablixa
study.Soon, Banks figures out that there's something much more sinister
underfoot. Like Hitchcock's 'Wrong Man', he now must clear his name. As
Emily has taken a plea bargain in which she pleads guilty by reason of
insanity, Banks is assigned to be her psychiatrist at the Ward's Island
Criminal Psychiatric facility, and has full say as to whether she will
be eventually released or not. And here is where I had the biggest
problem with this film. If Banks' reputation is so in tatters (he's
been smeared in the press) and the state licensing board is
investigating him, why would the court even entertain the idea that he
should continue to be involved with Emily? And without this caveat, the
film's denouement, could never develop as it does.So let's suspend our disbelief over this major plot point and see
whether the rest of 'Side Effects' has any more credibility. As it
turns out, Banks does indeed figure out that Emily was faking all along
that she was depressed. He also discovers that Banks turned out to be
the former lover of her former psychiatrist, Victoria, who convinces
Emily to participate in an incredible scheme to drive the stock price
down of pharmaceutical company who's been promoting Ablixa. By selling
short, Emily and Victoria end up making a bundle but once Banks figures
everything out, he forces Emily to wear a wire and rat out Victoria.It's pretty much a fantastic scheme and again it involves more
suspension of disbelief, since it's not guaranteed that the stock price
will go down that much, where the two schemers, will actually make a
big profit. Nonetheless, it could remotely happen. Banks being in
cahoots with the Assistant District Atttorney to turn Emily but then
falsifying her personality profile and illegally ordering her to take
mind numbing psychotropic medications such as Thorazine, to shut up her
up, seems beyond the pale. Would an ADA risk his job to participate in
such an illegal, revenge scheme? I hardly think so.It's also a bit ironic that a psychiatrist who exceeds his authority by
authorizing the administration of psychotropic medications when they
are not needed, appears justified, since the patient in question, has
gotten away with murder. Whether you like this final scenario or not,
one wonders why Emily didn't have an attorney who could have worked to
expose Banks' illegal actions. It just seemed a little too easy in the
way that Banks, along with his allies, so easily were able to keep
Emily as a zombie (all doped up with her medications), without any
other third parties becoming involved in her case, and perhaps
discovering that the 'good guys' (i.e. Banks and company), were
suddenly doing a bunch of bad things.'Side Effects' is a passable 'Hollywood-type' thriller. It has the
requisite good acting and interesting plot reversals, but ultimately
not everything adds up.
