8
Bromantic comedy of the year

Quickie Review:After a successful undercover drug bust operation in high school,
Schmidt (Jonah Hill) and Jenko (Channing Tatum) get their next big
assignment. Now in the sequel 22 Jump Street, as Ice Cube so eloquently
put it, these "two sons of b***hes are going to college." As the cop
duo take on yet another drug ring, they go through multitude of
ridiculous yet hilarious situations. In doing so, there are some
formulaic traps that the movie does fall into. Despite that, it is just
an incredible ride with non-stop laughter and great comedic chemistry
between the lead actors. This is a must-see for fans of 21 Jump Street
and people who generally like to laugh.Full Review:The original movie, 21 Jump Street, was a surprise hit back in 2012. It
was a movie filled with many belly aching moments of laughter. For that
reason, of all the comedies of 2014 this sequel may be the most
anticipated, at least it was for me. So the question is: does it
deliver on the high expectations? And the answer is: oh hell yes it
does.There is one absolute in this franchise that no one will dispute, the
chemistry between Jonah Hill and Channing Tatum is incredible. As soon
as their on screen you immediately start smiling, just because you feel
the need to prepare yourself for something amusing. Then when they do
go about their shenanigans, numerous twists and turns occur that are
fun to watch unfold, to hilarious effect. The jokes are fast paced and
relentless, without it being tiresome. More importantly the comedy is
actually clever, even during some of the scenarios the are more stupid
due to some absurdity. The combination of the comedic duo and the
intelligent humor work flawlessly, making the flick all the more
entertaining. As great as the two leads are with their comedic timing,
I need to especially mention Ice Cube. I won't spoil anything of
course, but there are points in this movie where Ice Cube actually
steals the scenes he is in. I'd pay the full movie ticket price just to
see that dynamic between Ice Cube and the two leads. It is that good.I do recognize there are some faults with 22 Jump Street. It did stick
with the philosophy of "if it ain't broke, don't fix it." In that
sense, the general story plot is pretty much the same as the original
movie. 22 Jump Street is self-aware of what it is, and pokes fun of
itself for being a sequel that follows the formula. However, addressing
this fault in that comedic way will not be enough for everyone to
forgive it. Still, I think this is something that you can easily look
past because of how enjoyable the movie is.The one purpose of a comedy is to make you laugh, and 22 Jump Street
fulfills that requirement consistently throughout the movie. By
throughout the movie, I mean even during the credits. Your cheeks will
have a good exercise, because mine were in pain with all the laughing.
It is well worth your time and money, so don't miss out on this one. If
they keep this up I will be there even at 1022 Jump Street.
