8
Exciting as well as sensitive film  about a master auctioneer who becomes obsessed with an extremely reclusive heiress

Interesting and enthralling picture with stirring drama , ravishing
cinematography and moving musical score . An epic story of a man who
could do anything , except be ordinary . A story centered on an
eccentric auctioneer , a great art lover , and his obsession with a
heiress/collector . As the successful auctioneer called Virgil Oldman
(Geoffrey Rush) becomes deeply passionate about a mysterious woman
called Claire (Sylvia Hoakes) who suffers agoraphobia . Meantime , the
fine art expert Virgil along with his younger friend , Robert (Jim
Sturgess) , attempt to remake an ancient automaton .Colorful and moving film dealing with a solitary man who punches drunk
love with a strange girl who resides at an Italian villa only attended
by a handy man . The flick relies heavily on the complex relationship
between an older man and a younger woman , but this does not get bored
or spoils the tale . This captivating picture contains drama , intrigue
, plot twists and nostalgia completely wrapped in an enjoyable love
story between a lone winner and a locked girl . The story is narrated
with great sense and sensibility , the intelligent screenplay was
written by Giuseppe Tornatore himself . Slightly underrated but
excellent all the same time , the picture is both , enjoyable and
entertaining , but overlong . Magnificent performance from Geoffrey
Rush as virtuoso auctioneer who has never set his heart on real love ,
Jim Sturgess as his best friend and Sylvia Hoakes as the gorgeous as
well as rare girl . Good acting from remaining cast , just like :
Donald Sutherland , Dermot Crowley and Philip Jackson . Glowing
cinematography in colorful scenarios and splendidly photographed by
Flavio Zamarion who reflects marvelously the elegant restaurants ,
apartments , paintings , auction hall and many other things . Rousing
and moving score musical by the veteran master and prolific Ennio
Morricone who achieved a deserved David Di Donatello .The picture was very well directed by Giuseppe Tornatore and won six
David Di Donatello awards , including Best Film and Best Director .
Tornatore made other similarly attractive films , including good actors
, such as : the excellent ¨Cinema Paradise¨ with Philippe Noiret ,
¨Malena¨ with Monica Belucci , ¨ The star maker¨ with Sergio Castellito
, ¨Legend of 1900¨ or ¨The Legend of the Pianist on the Ocean¨ with Tim
Roth , and ¨Baaria¨ with Raoul Bova ; being his English-language debut
feature titled ¨The professor¨ with Ben Gazzara . ¨The best offer¨
rating : Better than average , well worth watching for exceptional
cinematography , first-rate acting and wonderful score .
