2
Winner: Worst Police Work on Film

Spoilers ahead. Not that it matters.Oh my, what a waste of top talent and resources. This could have been a
taut, effective, thoughtful little thriller, but the ridiculous plot
holes and logical inconsistencies doom it (along with its unnecessary
length). The Hugh Jackman character is such a glaring box-checking
conceit that it diminishes any complexity I'm pretty sure we're MEANT
to appreciate about him. Religious? Check. Hard-working common man?
Check. Struggling in these dire economic times? Check. Adorable, loving
family? Check. Tragic family event in past that molded his character?
Check. Ironic plot development? Check. (The doomsday prepper gets
burned; but wait, that whistle did come in handy, as we knew it would.)
OK, let's stop there. I'm not saying the plight of the parents was not
moving. Who is not moved by children in jeopardy, parents in misery?
It's difficult to not see plots like this in terms of the basest
exploitation. But it takes a sure and subtle hand to make it work, and
that was obviously missing here. Many have compared it to Mystic River,
which is apt, though that was a far finer film, and more believable as
a police procedural. I imagine the screenwriter and director wanted us
to take a hard look at what might happen when a good man goes bad for
all the right reasons, but the lengths he goes to in torturing the Paul
Dano character just don't make sense. Yes, maybe that's the point:
Keller is beyond "sense." OK, but when the two other parents acquiesce
to the torture (albeit somewhat reluctantly, but still), I wanted to
throw something at the screen.While I'm still on "character," Jake Gyllenhaal's detective is an
absolute cipher. Maybe this was a decision NOT to give him a backstory
of any kind because that would be lame. Fine. But in place of that we
get a bad haircut, shirt-buttoned-all-the-way-but-no-tie look, some
twitchy blinking, and not much else. I was rooting for him mostly
because he wasn't actively torturing anyone.Other complaints:*One detective seems to be assigned to this very explosive case. Other
than combing the fields for bodies, no one else seems involved in the
"investigation." OK, this was probably a decision so the focus would be
on Loki (his name,really?) and not on some partner chitchat, and at a 2
hr., 33 min. runtime, I should shut up about it, but it so goes against
any police reality, that I couldn't forgive it. *Gyllenhaal makes a decision pretty early that the Paul Dano character
is innocent, and so he is released - without surveillance and without
police protection, even though Jackman's character has already attacked
him. Yes, I know, some perfunctory BS scene with Gyllenhaal's superior
was included to explain why there was no surveillance, but that also
was stupid. He was their only real suspect. And a search of his aunt's
property didn't reveal . . . drugs, syringes, handguns, sedated girls?
Nobody looked into the history of this little "farmily"? The aunt is
taken at her word about everything. Oh wait . . . she had to be, or
Hugh Jackman could not have kidnapped Paul Dano and we wouldn't have a
movie.*The priest has a dead body in the basement. Obviously, he takes his
vow about confessions more seriously than the commandment about murder.
Oh, and that dead body turns out to be . . . Well, you know if you saw
it.*The abandoned apartment where Dano is held is never searched
(convenient new suspect emerges at critical juncture, too busy to send
someone else over there to do a thorough search).*Red herring to end all red herrings: deranged young man with mazes,
snakes, pig blood, buried mannequins, stolen children's clothing. *Just in general: too much crazy in too limited a geographical space
(see Priest, Snake Boy, Crazy Aunt).*One child escapes . . . while heavily sedated? Crazy aunt nonetheless
stays put, does not kill remaining child immediately. Why she was
keeping them alive in the first place is not convincingly explained.*ONE person deciding that a dead child means warring with God and
creating "demons" by abducting and killing other people's children is a
just response to personal tragedy is far-fetched (not impossible,
certainly), but TWO! Good times. Of course, the Man suffers a crisis of
conscience apparently and confesses to the wrong priest. The Woman
(female of the species and all that) has to keep muddling along,
killing when she gets a chance. Times are tough (the recession applies
to child abduction too). *The maze symbol is both too obvious (morally) and too opaque. Dead guy
in basement wearing one, crazy crime re-enactor draws them, imprisoned
Dano whispers it? Connection unclear.I wish I had that whistle at the end, so someone would have come and
saved me from this movie.
