8
Mammoth in its Tiniest Form

Had it been too desperate and hopeless, ANT-MAN would have shrunk its
way for admission to the almost-complete, Avengers team. But neither
such concern nor saving the world from an impending catastrophic
destruction, holds weight heavy enough to pull this miniature superhero
from his top priority: winning back his daughter. The emotional weight
of the narrative comes across as an anomalous content to the generally
comedic structure of the film, but they serve purpose for the overall
flow of the proceedings, nonetheless.The film follows Scott Lang (Paul Rudd), who has just been released
from prison after committing burglary. He has been prohibited to see
his daughter due to his inability to provide financial support, no
thanks to his being an ex-con that keeps hindering him from getting a
job. He meets the highly-intellectual yet solitary scientist, Hank Pym
(Michael Douglas), who has a job for him: pulling off a heist on his
ex-protégé, Darren Cross (Corey Stoll), who is in possession of a
size-changing prototype, that poses massive amount of threats to
worldwide security. Using a military suit that allows him to shrink
back and forth, in size, Lang carries on with the mission with the hope
that by doing so, he would be able to reclaim and earn the reputation
and respect he lost, especially his daughter's.It's easier to see Ant-Man as a beautiful mess, rather than a
well-crafted superhero flick with profound depth and sense . There's a
lot of illogical nonsense that always nearly sends the film to
wreckage, but there's also so much of the fun side to make up for the
eventual narrative shortcoming. At the center of its comic efforts,
Paul Rudd's Scott Lang/Ant-Man shines with his general amiability,
pulling off his role with credible wit and comic allure. Rudd is such a
delight here, and his presence and effortless take on his character
make the mostly messed-up flow of the events, extremely palatable.
There's also much to say about Michael Douglas, how his character, Pym,
easily integrates well with Lang and his daughter, Hope (Evangeline
Lily) , to provide a firm and well-knitted character framework. Corey
Stoll, on the other hand, is less impressive, barely providing the
needed threat to make his presence felt and his belligerence imminent.
But on moments where he and Lang engage in beautifully-choreographed
fight scenes, the ineptitude gets relegated below the more important
aspects of the proceedings, and once it does, the breathtaking visual
schemes work under the spotlight, capturing Lang's size-changing skill
with epic elaborateness. There's magic in every size shift, and the
visual artistry is at its peak to deliver the moment.Perhaps, one of the most immediately-noticeable difference of Ant-Man
from its Marvel fellows is that it doesn't engage, nor rush too much,
to explosive battles that generally results to immeasurable
destruction. It is noticeably evident on the fact that its most
interesting and most jaw-dropping action setpiece, happens in a toy
train set. Most importantly, this new addition to the Marvel Cinematic
Universe places its comic prowess at the center of its general effort
to validate its entry to the franchise, and that is achieved without
putting the natural action/adventure tendency of its superhero, nor the
inevitable emotional nature of its characters, at risk of getting
overshadowed by the rudimentary elements of the narrative.It's actually hard to gauge ANT-MAN using the same measure that made
the rest of its pack, mammoth and omnipotently powerful. But in its own
right, and sub-atomic scale, this microscopic superhero is clearly a
power behemoth, and it will surely spring back to its even bigger form,
once the Avenger call is delivered.
