4
Not Gonna Take it Anymore

Greetings again from the darkness. A few upfront disclosures are in
order: I spent quite a few evenings on the Sunset Strip during the era
of this story; I had no idea who Diego Boneta was and only vague name
recognition of Julianne Hough when I walked in; and I never saw the hit
Broadway production. These points may help explain my reaction to the
movie.The opening sequence immediately informs us that we are in for
something different. Aspiring singer Sherrie Christian (Ms. Hough) is
running from her backwoods Oklahoma life to the bright lights of fame
offered by Hollywood. While on the bus, we get the first of an endless
stream of staged karaoke routines ... "Sister Christian" (get it??).
Once on Sunset Boulevard, she is quickly mugged and then comforted by
Drew (Mr. Boneta), an aspiring singer and current barhop at The
Bourbon, an obvious nod to such hallowed rock ground as Whisky A Go Go
and Roxy.No need to spend much time discussing plot. There is a muddled love
story filled with teenager dreams and miscommunication, and a financial
crisis at The Bourbon, thanks to back taxes owed by manager Dennis
Dupree (Alec Baldwin), and a political backlash against the club thanks
to the Mayor's wife (Catherine Zeta-Jones), who has a not so secret
need for revenge. The only way to save the club is for rock idol Stacee
Jaxx (Tom Cruise) to play a gig. The only way to save the love story is
to write it out of the film all together. The political agenda is
simply an excuse to add two more excruciating karaoke numbers.What little fun there is in the movie is thanks to Cruise, Baldwin and
Russell Brand, who plays Baldin's sidekick and confidant. Cruise jumps
into the Jaxx role with both feet and seems to understand that a parody
should be fun. Being a rock idol isn't far removed from being the
biggest movie star on the planet, so Cruise blends Axl Rose and Bret
Michaels to create Jaxx ... throw in a pet baboon, two He-men
bodyguards, an endless train of groupies, and a dragon codpiece ... and
you get Stacee Jaxx, legendary rock star.If one is going to make a rock 'n roll movie, it either needs to be
played straight (Almost Famous) or as a head-on parody (This is Spinal
Tap). What it can't do is celebrate the dead zone of lameness: lame
music covered by lame singers playing lame characters. No amount of
star power actors can overcome material that doesn't capture the power
and passion of the music. And we aren't even talking real rock n roll
here ... this is glam rock, stadium rock, big hair bands. Yet, the
movie still falls incredibly short of making a statement or providing
insight or even entertainment.Cruise's performance generates some laughs, as do Baldwin and Brand.
However, Hough and Boneta aren't even cringe-worthy. They have no
screen presence and neither belong in a rock movie. Maybe the real
problem is that most of the songs in the movie have survived these 25
years because of their mediocrity ... they can easily be sung while
intoxicated. Evidently that's not enough for a decent movie.
