1
I DID NOT want to stay for this movie

Okay, let's get this over with. This was a terrible movie. Do not go
waste time and money to see this. If I stay, was nothing but a big
snooze party. The characters were annoying, with little or no character
development. The entire time my cousin and I were looking at each other
with eye rolls, laughs at things that weren't supposed to be funny, and
lots of times I checked my watch to see when the movie would be over.
Alright, I have to admit that it was a clever idea, but the overall
production of it wasn't good at all. The music (which I was looking
forward to enjoying) was mediocre, the characters all were annoying,
the story line was messed up and confusing. Also, I had read the book,
and it wasn't the best adaption. The whole time I was just waiting to
see what happened. It was so boring, and oh, I didn't even mention the
music! The cello was okay, but the music the character Adam sung was
terrible. When he started playing in a hospital (bad idea you might
wake people) I literally whispered to my cousin, "if I were her I'd
unplug my IV and die so I wouldn't have to listen to that awful music
anymore."So, story line is a girl falls in love with a guy named Adam and is in
a coma and has to decide if she wants to live or die or pass on. Pretty
neat idea right? And you'd think with a story line like this the
characters would be pretty cool right? Wrong!!! Mia was annoying...
always complaining and for some reason I really hoped she'd just moves
on and get out of this ridiculous story. Adam... he was a mess. Okay,
first, he was incredibly selfish and awful. He: sneaks into her house,
gets mad at her for wanting to go to a certain college far away since
he won't see her (really?!!? CAN YOU BELIEVE HIM? HE HIMSELF IS ALWAYS
LEAVING HER, AND NOW HE WONT LET HER LEAVE?!?) He gets mad at her for
stupid things and he's really annoying, a really bad person, and a bad
character. If we were supposed to be charmed by his bad boy looks and
the fact the he was in a band, we weren't. Also... the ending!!!! I won't spoil too much, but the entire time my
cousin and I were like WHAT?!? The whole reason we wanted to come to
the movie was to see if she stayed or left (I was hoping she would
leave) I just disliked it entirely. I'm also a teenager, and if they
were trying to impress young teenage girls, they failed. I was
disappointed, bored, and was about ready to walk out of the theater. Please, do yourself a favor and don't waste your money on this movie.
