2
Attack Of The Crack

Spoilers Ahead:You will pray for the Big One after about a half hour of this brain
dead special that makes Irwin Allen's bad Earthquake look like The
Godfather. Sometimes it simplifies things, as a movie reviewer, to
simply relay a typical scene that conveys the true stinking power of
the narrative. The Rock, laying the smack down on the Bay's candy ass,
is ascending a tsunami filled with debris with a supertanker looming
above his head. The angle of ascension is near the side of Everest, as
the containers begin falling all about him, he slightly swerves his
motorboat with that incredibly powerful outboard engine. You know, they
are putting it on the Orion Spacecraft; what power it has! Yes, the
water is so filled with debris you could walk across it back to the
city. Later, the Rock, revives his daughter about ten minutes after
cardiac arrest due to drowning; hey, now we know who wrote the
screenplay! Yes, young people, Earthquake was bad, I admit it. But see,
other than the requisite gear validation scene at AT and T Park, where
the Rock shows us not only can he steal other peoples' vehicles, fly
over thousands of helpless people who might need his freaking help; he
has a psychic ability to detect earthquakes. I don't know, maybe he is
constipated and his bowels are sending messages to his tiny brain? The rest of the entire film the giant city of San Francisco seems to be
uninhabited as The Rock's daughter takes those poor English people all
around to safety. Where would they be, you know, the people whose
Empire ruled the world for hundreds of years? They just need some
guidance, poor things. As in a series of movies too long for listing,
the great power of gender superiority guides her, intuitively, to the
moment where she almost perishes for the rest of the dumb asses who
lack her genius. Besides the ghost town, what you will notice is the
absence of all the injured, groaning, dying people like in Earthquake.
The director was forced to do this because we might get peevish towards
our putative hero if we noticed him blithely flying over suffering
people with that empty helicopter of his, that, earlier in this
classic, can fly perpendicularly. Of course it can! This is the Rock;
the laws of physics should 'know their role and shut their hole.' One
way narcissists deal with others' suffering is simply to erase it from
their consciousnesses. Here, the streets are vacant like the theaters
where this movie was playing at. We do not find the bleeding, impaled
and shrapnel filled victims; come on, that is such a downer!The Rock is almost laconic the entire movie which is a good thing,
trust me. Look, I love Arnie's movies but the directors of the best
(The Terminator) had the wisdom to limit his dialog. After the usual
saintly husband enduring his philandering wife moment, whilst suffering
in pure goodness, we get to that irrelevancy: you know, the giant
earthquake? The bulk of the movie is the Rock and his wife flying above
all the chaos with an empty helicopter looking for their offspring. On
the ground, their daughter is still taking those poor dumb ass Brits to
safety; sometimes, they start to speak up, she shows them how
incredibly naughty that is. Please, just 'know your role', her
knowledge of geography is equaled only by that of electronics. Want to
know how bad this is? Earthquake has now metamorphosed into a
masterpiece after watching this piece of crap. The CGI is so over the
top and paired with empty streets, devoid of casualties, it intensifies
the absurdity to Monty Python levels. See, I may not be a geologist,
but if entire people filled office buildings fall to the ground, I
think this might hurt quite a few people, just my guess here. I am only
a philosopher, my bad. With the exception of the people at the Baseball park, The Rock seems
neither to really notice nor care about those other poor slobs who
might need his help. Hello? Hey, you up there with the freaking
helicopter could you possibly help us we are bleeding down here? See,
the city is empty because existentially you are looking through the
eyes of puerile narcissists for whom others' suffering and lives simply
do not exist. I found this far more frightening than the movie, believe
me. The characterizations are skin deep, the Rock seems in a coma for
most of the movie. The effects are phony looking and the aftereffects
utterly lacking in a scintilla of verisimilitude. One Simply Awful
Movie. Q.E.D.
