8
Great Film Based on a True Story

In 1986, in Khandwa, India, the 5 year-old boy Saroo (Sunny Pawar)
lives a very poor but happy life with his mother Kamla (Priyanka Bose),
his older brother Guddu (Abhishek Bharate) and his younger sister
Shekila (Khushi Solanki). Kamla works carrying stones during the night
shift and Guddu also works in the night in the Central Station. One
night, Saroo insists on going with Guddu to his work and does not
resist and sleeps. Guddu leaves Saroo sleeping on a bank I the station
and asks him to stay there until he returns. However the boy wakes up
in the middle of the night and decides to seek out his brother in a
train. He sleeps again and he wakes up in Calcutta, West Bengal, and
1,600 km east of Khandwa. Saroo does not speak Bengali, only Hindi, and
lives on the street of the big city. One day, a young man brings Saroo
to the police station and he is sent of an institution for children. In
1987, Saroo is adopted by an Australian family and moves to Hobart,
Tasmania. He is raised with love by his foster parents and one day, he
goes to an Indian party promoted by his Indian mates from the
university with his girlfriend Lucy (Rooney Mara). He tells the story
of his childhood and triggers the feeling of missing his family. Now
Saroo becomes obsessed to find his mother Kamla and his siblings. Will
he succeed in his search?"Lion" is a great film based on a true story. The first part is a
masterpiece and the boy Sunny Pawar steals the show. The plot is
heartbreaking with the 5 year-old boy lost alone in the big city and
without speaking the local language. There is an ellipsis when he grows
up and the film turns into a melodrama inferior to the story of Saroo's
childhood on the streets of Calcutta. The conclusion is emotional, with
the reunion of Saroo and his biological mother. Along the credits, the
footage of the real characters in India will make many eyes brimming
with tears. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Lion: Uma Jornada Para Casa" ("Lion: A Journey Home")
