1
Behold, the Übermensch

Superheroes may misunderstand and they make mistakes but, ultimately,
they are morally incorruptible. If they find themselves on the wrong
side of a fight it's because they've misunderstood the nature of the
problem. However, when reality finally hits home we can rely on them to
admit their error and go off to fight together in the name of Truth,
Justice and the American Way. People who die are unavoidable collateral
damage, superheroes are beyond reproach and we need them too much to
limit their powers. The world is just too scary and too dangerous to
shackle the mighty with red tape and bureaucracy. Superheroes are
better than us mere mortals, not just more powerful but also more
moral. They don't need to follow the same rules we do.After Winter Soldier I was under the (apparently mistaken) belief that
Marvel's Capt. America franchise was criticising neoliberal America.
There was all that stuff about the ends not justifying the means and
about how politicians use terror to convince the population they need
to be oppressed for their own good. How wrong could I be! Now I see
that it's actually the opposite. It pretends to be anti-establishment
but really it's just about justifying a sense of self-entitlement. Like
Donald Trump, Capt. America criticises the State for oppressing people
whilst simultaneously adhering to exactly the sort of high-handed moral
superiority that inevitably leads to that oppression. He (I mean Capt.
America) obviously skipped school on the day they taught the importance
of checks-and-balances and why one of the central principles of US
Democracy is that of the separation of powers.The message of this film is simple. If you believe you are right, then
you can do whatever you want as long as it's in the name of *insert
moral cause*. Anyone who tries to limit your personal crusade is either
stupid, naïve or oppressing you. Freedom from oppression means the
freedom to act like you're better than other people, because, well, you
ARE better than other people (go on, admit it, you're amongst friends
here).
