4
Overrated Movie - good acting but story is a complete bummer

I liked the cast, the music and the cinematography. I could have liked
the story but I felt that the writer opted for shock-drama rather than
continued character development . We all understand that life is not
always wonderful, people are not always good and bad things do happen.
I am aware of that every morning when I watch the news. I don't want a
movie to be more depressing than the news and this movie was.A simple story – three mentally unstable women need to be transported
to a place of care. It's a long trip – several weeks by horseback. The
compassionate and caring Mary Bee Cuddy takes on this responsibility
even though she knows it's a dangerous undertaking. We really don't know much about Mary Bee. We learn that she is on her
own. She has a farm, some money but she is alone and she is concerned
about getting "too old" to start a family. She is looking for a husband
and she is not very choosy – pickings are slim in the wild west.
Apparently even the burnt out losers think she is "plain" to the point
of being unworthy of wedlock. Swank is an unusual looking woman but she
is attractive and although the makeup department does their best to
"drab her up", she still looks fine – so when the unshaven, dirty and
relatively stupid men turn her down, it doesn't ring true.So, back to the long trek east - Mary Bee enlists the help of George
Briggs (Tommy Lee) as a result of a promise he makes after she saves
him from a hanging. Briggs is not a particularly likable character and
he is motivated by the promise of a cash payment at the end of the
journey. The dialog reveals a bit about his past – a stint with the
dragoons, he's a deserter and a loner. He looks like a completely fried
old man that hasn't had a woman or a bath in twenty years. And yet,
with that in mind, he still seems to feel he is too good for Mary Bee.So the five embark on their journey. There are a few situations that
arise that are dangerous (a potential Indian attack, a lunatic steals
one of the women, food shortages) but nothing really unusual happens.
It's all mildly interesting but I kept waiting for the "big problem"
.Up to this point (maybe the two thirds through the movie) I enjoyed
the movie. And then, the big surprise. The shocker. The reason I was turned off.The rest of the movie is an attempt and showing how Briggs has started
to "come around" and find some compassion of his own. Too little, too
late. The ending scene is a total bring-down.Didn't like it.
