9
A Beautiful Sweet Film about Complexities of Diversity and Relationships in Modern America

The Big Sick was very warmly-received at Austin's SXSW Film Festival.
The Big Sick is a superbly original romantic comedy/drama based on a
true story of Kumail Nanjiani and his now-wife Emily Gardner; they
co-wrote the script together. Kumail stars as himself. It starts from
the premise of the inherent difficulties of interracial,
inter-religious relationship between a Pakistani- American comedian and
white woman in Chicago who face both the normal difficulties of
relationships combined with the pressures of Kumail's overbearing, but
loving family who demand that he participate in an arranged marriage to
a Pakistani girl. Kumail is caught between competing worlds. The
situation spins out-of-control when Emily becomes extremely ill and
Kumail has to deal with her parents.The amazing part of this movie is that it deals with deeply serious
complex issues, but does so with humor and grace. The screenplay is
remarkable and nuanced, but is infused with a comedian's sense of humor
that captures the real human comedy that exists in all personal
relationships. You will die laughing when Emily's bewildered father
turns to Kumail in a hospital cafeteria and asks him, "What do you
think of 9/11?" and Kumail responds as a comedian should to such an
outrageously stupid question. Ray Romano and Holly Hunter are excellent
in the roles of Emily's parents. While based on a true story, I'm sure parts have been fictionalized to
bring the drama and the humor of the events to the screen, but it
appears that the basic Romeo & Juliet premise is based on the screen
writers' real relationship. The film's ability to balance the deadly
serious and the comedic reminds me of the wonderful film 50/50 (2011)
which also dealt with a deadly illness with a similar light touch. This
beautiful film which deals so well with the complexities of overcoming
cultural differences serves as a good anecdote to our charged political
climate and especially with the demonization of Islam that has become
all too dangerous in this country. I hope it is the breakout comedy hit
of the summer when it goes into wide release in July.
