1
A poorly edited unfunny mess that loses Will Ferrell his loyal fans

This is easily the worst comedy i've seen this year. Almost every
aspect possible is poorly executed. Story, Characters, Editing,
Directing, Humor, Soundtrack, ETC. I went in with an open mind thinking
that i could find this film somewhat entertaining, but i didn't even
crack a smile. I sat through 90 minutes of absolute pain and misery.Will Ferrells films as of late have been garbage, ranging from the
absolutely forgettable and bland Get Hard, to the Cliché and obnoxious
Daddys Home. After this film, i've officially given up on his films,
and it seems that many other Will Ferrell fans have as well. His
performance in this film consists of him overacting at seemingly random
points, and gets old really fast, but at least he was trying in this
film. The rest of the cast were absolute crap. Amy Poehler, Jason
Mantzoukas, Nick Kroll, Rob Huebel, and especially Ryan Simpkins, were
terrible in this movie, just like the characters they portray. All of
the characters are bland clichés and stereotypes that have nothing
funny, unique, or interesting about them.This film is quite possibly the longest 90 minutes i have ever sat
through. I literally felt like i was in the theater for hours, only to
realize that i had another half hour to go. The pacing is so slow and
tedious, there's too much filler and a load of subplots that don't go
anywhere (such as the daughter doing drugs), and despite being a film
about a home casino, there's barley any fun gambling scenes in the
film. There's only one near the beginning (but because of the dreadful
pacing i thought it was at the halfway point) but its so poorly shot,
rushed, and has an agonizing slow motion effect shoehorned into it.Speaking of which, this has got to be some of the worst editing I have
ever seen in a film. Some scenes are so quick and pointless purely
because of the way they are edited. there's this one scene where the
casino runs a pool party during the day (even though the casino is
supposed to be secret), but there's no jokes, no exposition, no fun to
be had in the scene, and it ends on a terribly rushed edit. There's
also poorly choreographed fight scenes that have horrible shots, badly
placed slow-mo, horrible fake blood, and there isn't even any fun music
to make these scenes more entertaining. Its pretty pathetic when the
trailer has better editing and soundtrack than the actual movie.Overall, The House is a terrible summer film that only succeeds in
Losing Will Ferrell his fans, and because his next film is Daddys Home
2, it doesn't look like he's going to be winning them back anytime
soon.
