7
Smaller Side of Crime

The Drop appears as a crime thriller, taking its audience to a gritty
life of gangsters hiding their dirty money in drop bars, but this is
mostly a drama about a lone bartender thinking on living a different
path apart from his cousin's. It also involves a subplot of a man
trying to retain his already faded glory. But there is a deadlier
conflict lurking in the dark. There isn't much remarkably grand to be
found in this story, but telling the details of the characters' past
and waiting for the impending danger behind their backs instantly makes
it compelling. It benefits by being low-key, but still far from
classic. In any way this is still one fine basic crime drama.This is a story where you find no heroes. Bob is basically not the kind
of person anyone would fear. In spite of his reserve and kinder
personality towards people, you may not know that he is still a tough
fellow since he's been adapted into this mess. Things get lighter when
he adopts a dog, meets a new friend and starts a relationship, thinking
that his life would change for a bit. Once the real threat appears into
this small side of his world, we expect him to protect them from harm,
but this is not one of those glossy heroic deeds that lead to some
action set piece. The thrills are simply calm and with that calmness,
you can sense more of the danger coming after himself and his loved
ones. If there is one thing we've learn about gangsters in great crime
movies then that is how unpredictable they are at killing. That is how
often the movie displays its suspense.The story relies to many backstories within its main characters and we
could easily comprehend those on their conversations and their
lifestyle. The cast helps making these characters engaging, with Tom
Hardy layering coldness above Bob's remaining humanity. The late James
Gandolfini does beyond brooding, you can feel the character's despair
from his old days. Anything else, the actor did what he does best.
Noomi Rapace makes for a likable backup for Hardy. And Matthias
Schoenaerts is effectively threatening. These performances just live up
to the depth of what's written for these characters.The Drop is plain simple, that the only value it provides to its
audience is some entertaining cluster with the stars like Hardy,
Gandolfini, and Rapace, and some grounded tension. This won't end up
being one of the greats since it doesn't actually satisfy in whatever
happens in the end, but this is already an interesting study of a
corrupt lifestyle at the streets of Brooklyn, with people hiding their
own dirty secrets and facing some uncertain consequences. That alone
could bring a fine recommendation to this movie.
