10
Don't understand all the hate.

Before i saw this movie i looked at some people's opinions about it and
i saw mostly negative reviews, so i was really nervous going into this
movie thinking that i would have had the same reaction to it and
seriously i have no idea what those people are talking about. So War for the planet of the apes is the 3rd film in the new
prequel/Reboot of the planet of the apes movies. And this is about
Caeser going on a journey to stop a war between his apes and an army of
highly trained soldiers, while he also tries to control his more
violent instincts. First the obvious, the CGI is amazing and is truly a technological
marvel to cinema. Andy Serkis once again plays the ape ruler Caesar and
is easily the best movie character in recent years, in each film he has
gotten progressively better and in this one it is definitely the best
performance. The story is great and is well acted throughout. This
movie is also an amazing drama. There are a lot of moments that just
make you jerk a tear every once in a while and its believable. The
action sequences are pretty good too. Woody Harrelson plays the colonel
and he does a pretty good job at it (He is not as good as koba but
still good). He is just a character that you can relate to and you
understand why he is doing all of this. Caesar and the colonel are
pretty relatable. As much as i would love to say how great this movie
is, i better stop right here. I loved every part of this movie and i did not find anything i did not
like about it, but i am gonna talk about why i think most people were
disappointed with this film. So if you watched all the trailers and
looked at the title you may be expecting one thing, a ton of apes and
humans fighting with guns and rockets. But although there is some of
that in this movie, its definitely not the main point of it. This movie
to its core is about the war that a person faces emotionally while war
is happening around him. We see this concept with Caesar all the way
through the movie. It also talks about what terrible things a person or people would do in
a war. Woody Harrelson's character does what he does because he
believes that the entire human race is going to go extinct if he does
not act. I mean, would you do that if you knew that you could slowly be
replaced by another species? So some people do not like this film because they were expecting a full
on hardcore war movie. And it is that, but it really is a commentary
about how a person has a war within themselves when war is happening
around them. And people either missed, did not care, or did not
understand the more darker themes about this movie. But anyway, in the end i thought this movie was a masterpiece in every
way it could have been. It has amazing CGI, performances, action
sequences, dark themes, tear jerking moments, and a beautiful moral to
it. A+ or 10/10 APES TOGETHER STRONG!
