5
I really wanted to like this...

As a huge fan of the musical, I have been waiting with anticipation for
this movie release. I just got back from the Christmas eve 10pm showing
of this movie, and I must say that I am somewhat disappointed. There
were some positives, but I feel it could have been so much better.First the positives. There are some very strong performances here.- Anne Hathaway's performance has already drawn critical acclaim, so I
won't dwell on it, except to say that the acclaim is well deserved.- Hugh Jackman's voice tone and interpretation of Jean Valjean is quite
different from anyone before, and I found myself drawn deeply to this
Jean Valjean, sympathizing with his every emotion. I thought he did a
great job of switching between a rough gravelly tone to a more clean
ringing falsetto depending on the emotions of the character. I do have
a complaint about directorial cues on one of Jean Valjean's key
numbers, but more on that below.- Eddie Redmayne as Marius gives a great performance. For the stage
productions, Marius has always been one of my least favorite
characters, always lacking depth with what I perceived as just immature
blind infatuation for Cosette as his only emotion. In this movie, Eddie
really captured each moment: his love for Cosette in the moonlight
garden scene, his determination and drive for revolution, his remorse
and anguish during "Empty chairs at empty tables" (a real tour-de-force
performance). I thought he was wonderful.Also, the set/locations/scenery/costumes/make up really allow the
audience to immerse into the story. I think this point is one of the
greatest benefits a movie setting has over a stage production, and this
movie delivers on this front. From the beautiful country settings, to
the grime and grit of poverty in Montreuil and Paris, there is a strong
sense of realism that you can't get in stage production (they did
overdo it slightly in the sewer scene).Now on to the negatives.I have seen a few reviews complaining about the slow pace of the film.
I thought the opposite. It felt kinda rushed. I know the stage
production is 3 hours long, but I wish they hadn't sacrificed the story
and proper delivery to save on run time for the movie. Some of the
scene transitions are rather abrupt and leaves a sense of this being an
ensemble of songs, rather than one flowing story. I'm not a purist in
that I will complaint about every single change from the stage
production, but some of the cuts and omissions really hurt the flow of
the story and leaves some key characters and relationships woefully
under-developed. Having said that, I do think one addition was
brilliant: the scene with Jean Valjean singing to a sleeping Cosette in
the carriage as they leave the Thenardier's inn. It really gives a
great insight into the change that Jean Valjean goes through and the
bond that he forms with Cosette.Enjolras seems shuffled as a minor character, which is too bad as Aaron
Tveit played the part with great passion when given the chance. Even
though fleeting, Enjolras, Grantaire, and even Gavroche share some
moments in the stage production that allows us to bond with these
characters. I felt the movie marginalized each as their own without
developing a bond between them.Eponine also seemed to be under-developed. I can't quite place it. The
individual performances were very strong, but "On my own" and "A little
fall of rain" didn't quite have the same emotional impact that I
thought it would. I think it was due to the lack of insight into the
dynamic between Marius and Eponine. There was a lot of Eponine watching
Marius fall in love with Cosette from a distance, but only one instance
that I can remember of Marius unknowingly hurting Eponine during their
interaction. I can think of 3 or 4 such occurrences in the stage
production and really sympathizing with Eponine each time it happened.
Again, subtle differences, but it really detracted from the overall
story for me.Also, I didn't care for Hugh Jackman's rendition of, and Tom Hooper's
direction of "Bring him home". In the stage production, this song is
very subdued with Jean Valjean singing in beautiful high falsetto while
watching over a sleeping Marius. There is a beauty to its simpleness,
and it is almost like a glimpse into Valjean's mind as he silently
sends a prayer up to God. This movie's interpretations is much more...
dynamic. Hugh Jackman delivers with a stronger force as Valjean
nervously walks around the 2nd story of a building looking down on a
sleeping Marius at the barricade. Certainly a very different
interpretation, and it didn't work for me.One last bit of negative was the casting of Russell Crowe as Javert. I
am a fan of Russell Crowe, and while he is a great fit for the look and
persona of Javert, I just did not feel he fit the vocal demands of the
character. It prevented me from empathizing with Javert, my favorite
character from the stage production.With as much anticipation as I had going in, I'm afraid it was a bit of
a disappointment. I really wanted to like this, but came away thinking
of what could have been. Certainly a must see for all fans of the
musical, but it is a shame that this movie will be the sole judgement
of Les Mis for millions of viewers who may never have a chance to see
the stage production.
