9
Doug Liam and Tom Cruise make such a great pair

Very few directors have tapped the clown in Tom Cruise the way Doug
Liman has. He had directed Tom in Edge of Tomorrow which was humorous
and was set amidst a post-apocalyptic alien invasion. American Made is
just as humorous and is also set amidst an invasion of sorts except
this movie is a true story. Captain Barry Seal had the adventure of a
lifetime before falling prey to a monster of his own doing. But what an
adventure it might have been for this man to smuggle contraband into
and out of the States.I felt Tom Cruise did a great job portraying the pilot in an extremely
light-hearted and funny way. Cruise is known for playing roles that
ooze oodles of dare-devilry. But most of those roles are of fictitious
characters. For once Tom plays a real man whose daring knew no bounds.
Captain Barry Seal was like a real-life Ethan Hunt. Hence I feel
casting Cruise as Seal was an extremely appropriate decision and should
help in filling Universal Studios Entertainment's coffers.If you were awed after seeing the aerial sequences in Dunkirk, wait
until you have seen this film. The planes are subjected to go through
some intense acrobatics which will please you. If you were disappointed
with Cruise after watching The Mummy, I can assure you that you will
heave a sigh of relief after watching this film. The film's story is
not only engaging but also witty and hilarious. There are hardly any
stagnant moments so the probability of you getting bored is very low.A very ironic thing about American Made is that in 1986 when Barry Seal
must have gone through whatever turmoil he did, a young Tom Cruise
played a pilot in Top Gun which released that year. Did he know he
would pay a real-life pilot who was very relevant during those days
almost 31 years later ?Watch American Made . Don't watch it for Tom Cruise's stardom. Watch it
because you deserve to watch an entertaining and great film on the big
screen that coincidentally has a superstar playing the leading man. I
humbly apologize for the length of this post but sometimes I just can't
control myself from pouring my thoughts out
