8
Thurgood trains a civil rights lawyer

With the premiere of Marshall actor Chadwick Boseman has now played
three cultural black icons. First there was James Brown the Godfather
of Soul, then it was Jackie Robinson the first black player in modern
times in major league baseball. Now it is Thurgood Marshall, but
Marshall in his early days as a lawyer for the National Association For
The Advancement Of Colored People. Thurgood Marshall in his career litigated many major civil rights cases
including the most famous of all Brown vs. Board Of Education in 1954
that integrated the school system nationwide. Later on his career was
capped by becoming the first black justice on the Supreme Court.This story takes place in the late 30s by the music and the radio
broadcasts with the news of the day. Thurgood Marshall has been sent to
Connecticut to defend Sterling K. Brown a black chauffeur on a charge
of raping his employer Kate Hudson. This may be the north, but the racial attitudes in Greenwich,
Connecticut are only more subdued than they are in Alabama. Fairfield
County in those days in the richer suburban towns are pretty bad. You
remember from Auntie Mame the phrase, Aryan from Darien. They're not
crazy about Jews either.Marshall being an outsider to the state has to be admitted to the
Connecticut bar. Local attorney Sam Friedman played by Josh Gad is the
lead counsel temporarily and the first motion is to get Marshall
admitted. That is usually a pro forma thing, note how Matt Damon has to
be admitted to the bar in Tennessee in The Rainmaker. Such courtesy is denied Marshall by Judge James Cromwell. But he's
allowed to sit at the defense table and coach Friedman. Despite a few
curves thrown at the defense Gad who only did civil cases before this
for insurance companies proves to be a pretty good advocate.Boseman steps up to his role just as he did with Jackie Robinson and
James Brown. He also has some wonderful domestic scenes with his wife
Keesha Sharp and at a nightclub with Jussie Smollett and Chilli Thomas
as Langston Hughes and Zora Neale Hurston. Good performances you think
these are the real people.Thurgood Marshall was also portrayed on screen by Sidney Poitier in the
film Separate But Equal dealing with the school integration cases right
up to the Supreme Court. These two really ought to be seen back to back
for a full assessment of Marshall's career.In his time when Lyndon Johnson appointed Marshall to the Supreme Court
it wasn't just race that made Marshall's appointment unique. It was the
whole level of experience in the kind of law he practiced for people
like Sterling K. Brown. The goal is justice and the law has to work for
all for justice to be realized.Marshall is a film not to be missed.
