8
It's not a masterpiece or work of fine art. It's not meant to be. It's meant to be entertaining and that's exactly what it is.

When the credits started, I had a big smile on my face.What is your perception of 2 Guns? Whether you've seen the trailer or
read the comic, you might have an idea what sort of movie this is. If
so, you will be correct and happy you decided to watch it.The big surprise many seem to have is the fact that this movie is based
on the 2 GUNS comic Boom! Studios put out in 2007. I'll admit, despite
the fact that I've always read a lot of Boom's comics, this series
somehow completely snuck by. I did read the series before watching the
movie. Whether or not you should do that, we'll get to that in minute.The movie stars Denzel Washington and Mark Wahlberg. That in itself is
pretty impressive. These two actors crank up the charisma during the
movie. You can't help but enjoy their presence on screen.These two guys are planning on robbing a bank. It turns out it wasn't a
simple bank and they ended up with way more than they thought. The
twists and turns avalanche upon them as they discover others that are
interested in the money plus the fact that they don't know each other
as well as they thought. If you've watched the trailer, you probably
know more about the movie than you should.Washington and Wahlberg are great together. For a movie with a lot of
shooting and one- liners, it's the kind you can just become immersed
in. This is pure entertainment. Parts may get a little outrageous and a
tad predictable. But there are still plenty of twists to catch you off
guard. You'll laugh, you'll be on the edge of your seat and you'll even
find yourself flinching or cringing a little at times.Should you or should you not read the comic first?That really depends on how much you want to know ahead of time. Some of
the twists weren't revealed in the trailers. The movie is pretty
faithful to the comic, something pretty rare for a "comic book movie."
There are obviously some minor differences but if you have read it
before, you'll smile hearing some lines taken directly from the comic.
Washington's casting is a bit of a departure. I felt as if his
character and Wahlberg's were closer in age in the comic. But seeing
the two together, it absolutely does not matter. These two made the
movie fun.You're probably aware this isn't a piece of fine art. It's not meant to
be. Usually at this point in the summer, all the "big" Hollywood movies
have been released. This is a movie that gives you a reason to go back
to the theaters one more time.It's more than just about Washington and Wahlberg. Those two could have
easily carried the burden of being the box office draw. We are also
treated to great performances by Bill Paxton, Edward James Olmos, James
Marsden and Paula Patton. That's what makes the movie even more of a
pleasant surprise. You get a sense that some thought and care was put
into the making of this movie. Not only is it faithful to the comic,
the filmmakers also made sure it had a great cast and delivered a
really good quality production.The movie is rated R. Clearly there is quite a bit of violence. There's
plenty of shooting, killing and explosions. It gets a little over the
top but that's what you should expect from this kind of movie. There is
also some brief nudity and plenty of profanity. In other words, this
isn't a family film. What it is is a movie you go see with your
friends. Buy some popcorn, lean back in your seat and just enjoy the
movie and have a great time.I mentioned leaving the theater with a smile. It's not a "feel good"
movie. But it will make you laugh and give you a good time. That's
exactly what I want for my money. It's fun and absurd with over the top
action. Do I want a sequel? Boom! Studios did release 3 GUNS this week.
I would indeed love to see these two return to the characters.
