6
I Wish For Better Execution

I wish I may, I wish I might, make a demand that might cost someone's
life? That's not the way the rhyme goes, but this parody is pretty
representative of the theme of my latest review. Robbie K here, this
time covering Wish Upon the latest horror genre flick to flood the
silver screens across the country. The "disturbing" trailers paint the
picture of the next spine tingling film, but the PG-13 rating suggests
it could be a little timid. What's the verdict? Hopefully I can fill in
some answers to help answer that question. Let's get started!LIKES:Shorter Run Time: I know what you're thinking, not good if this is a
like, but it's nice to see a movie stick around the 90-minute run time
when there isn't sustenance to keep it running longer. Wish Upon fills
its short run-time purpose with the thrills you want, and keeps it
concise, a sign of good directing and editing in an era what that so
suffers. Joey King: Singling out the actors in this rather new actor cast, Joey
King reprises her horror acting in a "two thumbs up" manner. King plays
the role of a distressed teenager with class, bringing a delicate
balance of drama, screaming, and shallow happiness to the character. In
many PG-13 or teenager focused films, the lead character often suffers
from overacting or extreme tangents in directing. For me, King was able
to keep things in good proportions and didn't have me rolling my eyes
(a first in a long time.) While certainly not an award-winning
performance, King gets props for carrying the load of the movie. A Nice tangent: Despite the common trend of demons, spirits, and
ghosts Wish Upon at least brings a slight twist to the themes of
horror movies. The wishing factor is a nice gimmick to get sold onto
and see what desires will tempt her to risk lives. It set a nice pace
for the movie to build upon, and made it a little dynamic in regards to
whom would pay the blood price for Clare's (King) decisions and
selfishness. The wish factor also presented some character development,
shallower but existing, that really worked in their favor. Not overly graphic: A PG-13 horror movie is often a lot lax in their
grim depictions of death. Wish Upon continues that trend, forgoing
gross, exaggerated, drawn out torturous deaths in favor of ridiculous,
and still horrible, deaths that are quickly executed. One can think of
this as Final Destination meets Unfriended, which boils down to
coincidental deaths with a filter. Unfortunately, it means you have
seen a majority of the executions via the commercials, but you will get
a few sequences that have escaped the public eye up until now. DISLIKES:Very simplistic: Despite the deaths being filtered and less intense,
they were also very simplistic and not as impressive. Yes, they were
still awful (as death is), but the hype up of the trailers was sadly
dropped with the simplicity of the deaths. There was no extra edge
factor to them, and the lack of suspense, which left the ridiculous
nature of the deaths the eye-rolling component of the film. If you want
the mindless, over the top deaths without the blood well your wish has
been granted I guess. Story: Wish Upon's tale has some decent character
development in it to highlight the underlying theme of the horror
movie. It was great seeing Clare's transitions and her attempt to find
the solution to the curse kept in the box. However, outside of that,
the story tanks. It's the same predictable mess that most of this genre
is, with little sustenance so that they could cram more deaths into the
movie. The cool wish concept brought about a lot of potential to
interact with the entity, as well as opportunities for a more
suspenseful uncovering of the source of the evil. I would have liked to
see what the creature looked like, or at least more interaction with
the invisible evil that dwelled within. Other plot elements could have
been a little more detailed in the delivery as well, to add the
emotional impact I think they wanted. The VERDICT:Wish Upon isn't the worst movie to grace the theaters. This PG-13 movie
brings a unique angle to a stale concept that is concise, decently
acted, and not overly graphic. Unfortunately, the execution is still in
need of work on a variety of areas. A lackluster story that was
underdeveloped and the lack of suspense are two key areas the potential
sequel can bring to the table. As for this film though, if you aren't
looking for a filtered death movie, you might skip this until haunts
Netflix. For those looking for a simplistic horror film though you've
got a ringer in the theaters this summer. One thing is certain
thoughbe careful what you wish for. My scores: Fantasy/Horror/Thriller: 6.0 Movie Overall: 4.0
