10
An Extraordinary, Extraordinarily Unforgettable Masterwork of Filmmaking

I loved "A Bigger Splash" (the previous film by Luca Guadagnino,) and
was in awe by the trailer and stunning reviews for this film. Needless
to say, my expectations were utterly shattered by this powerful,
emotional, and gorgeous drama. It's one of the best films of the
decade, and clearly the best film of the year so far.While this isn't the type of film with too many spoilers, I still don't
want to give too much away. It's better to go into such a sublime film
like this knowing less rather than more. What I will say is that the
main plot concerns an adolescent man who is spending a summer in the
1980's with family in Lombardy, Italy. He begins having a relationship
with an older man invited as a guest by the family played by Armie
Hammer. The film's pacing is superb and lets the viewer genuinely meet
these characters, who are bonded by both friendship and physical
affection. This is clearly shown throughout the movie, as the chemistry
between the two leads is excellent.But what makes "Call Me By Your Name" such a phenomenal film is its
gripping sense of feeling. Viewers truly feel that they are away from
where they are viewing the film, and truly feel like they have been
transported to 1980's Italy. Guadagnino is a masterpiece at eliciting
senses, and the audience's sense of senses are used to full effect to
simulate the true feelings of being in Italy. From luscious depictions
of peaches and apricots grown in the countryside, to the streets in
gorgeous Italian towns and the steamy espresso, every sight and sound
in the film feels truly authentic and impactful on the viewer. I have
not seen such an effective use of reflecting on audiences' senses to
create a more immersive viewing experience in a film in years. The
film's score is exceptional as well. It feels authentically Italian and
beautifully emotional, especially when paired with the film's script in
many scenes. The writing feels both authentic and intelligent at all
times, and the film doesn't even manage to let its guard down in a
single scene by failing to grip the viewer with its beautiful script. A
late-film monologue by Michael Stuhlbarg is a particular highlight.As one can see from reading this review, this film is truly
unforgettable and a brilliant trip to Italy. Its immersion in its
setting and characters remind us of the focal point of cinema: to
expose the viewer to unique settings and opportunities and to transport
them to these opportunities through the language of film. Recommended
to the highest degree. 10/10
