2
"Doobie-us" Editing Pushes Incomprehensibility to New Heights

"My name is Alice, and this is my story. The end of my story."Except it likely isn't. Because writer-director Paul W.S. Anderson
doesn't know how to tell how a story. Because Anderson refuses to give
Milla Jovovich's Alice the ending she deserves. And because this film
made way too much money at the box office for the corporate heads at
Screen Gems to call it a day. Going back to the ending, however, the
film's final five minutes completely betray everything that comes
before, Anderson seeking the easy way out and preventing the film from
even providing a modicum of closure. I haven't seen the rest of the
installments in this series, and I likely never will, but the ending of
this latest entry frustrates, leaving the door wide open for a
continuation despite the affirmation of the film's subtitle that this
is indeed, the final chapter. Anderson finds himself unable to provide
an ending with something substantial and weighty, choosing instead to
succumb to triviality.Perhaps my experience of watching Resident Evil: The Final Chapter can
best be described as nauseating. Editor Doobie White should be
permanently banned from ever entering a Hollywood editing room for the
remainder of his career. There are trace elements of impactful action,
most notably in a scene early on that features Alice fighting Umbrella
Corporation soldiers while hanging upside down, but White's editing
completely obfuscates Anderson's footage, wringing the material free of
any excitement. Indeed, the action suffers throughout, especially in
the second half. Combined with dimly-lit rooms, White's editing allows
for the action to attain a level of incomprehensibility so rarely seen
in major Hollywood productions that I hope it remains that way. We
don't need to see the action of punching someone in the face from four
different angles in the span of a second, and yet White indulges in
creating a film free of visual panache, refusing to allow the audience
the mere pleasure of being able to watch what's on screen.The film plays as a poor imitation of Mad Max: Fury Road, with White
attempting to emulate Margaret Sixel's kinetic editing style. But
whereas Sixel retained precise control and restraint over her work,
complimenting George Miller's visual storytelling in such a masterful
way that she was awarded an Oscar, White instead edits in such a way
that the film ends up feeling the product of late-night Red Bull cram
sessions, White desperately trying to piece together disparate video
fragments in an attempt to meet a deadline that has already passed.Additionally, Anderson himself happens to be part of the problem. While
he may be passionate about Resident Evil and these characters, none of
that shines through in his writing. Instead, we are merely moved from
action sequence to action sequence, with nothing but clumsy dialogue
and wooden acting to serve as the intermediary between said sequences.
Anderson finds himself unable to determine what exactly he wants to
emphasize, whether it be action or horror, and so the film falls flat
on both fronts. The jump scares of the first act feel cheap and
ineffective, while some of the action in the second and third acts
relies entirely too much on CGI. Peppered throughout the film itself
are baffling inconsistencies that break whatever suspension of
disbelief is already necessary to sit through one of these films.
Characters appear and disappear seemingly out of their own volition to
the degree that when the first of the survivors bit the dust, I had no
idea who she was.The characters that Anderson writes to populate his world are so
thinly-written that the performers portraying them could be swapped
around to little noticeable change. Indeed, when each of these
characters eventually meets their end, there is no sense of gravity, no
sense of impact. These characters merely serve as plot devices that
demonstrate the myriad of ways that someone can be killed, as conjured
by Anderson. Even Jovovich falls flat, unconvincing in the role of the
heroine. It's a shame too, because the world these characters inhabit
is ripe for potential, for the post-apocalyptic landscape of America
can be and has been used to explore a variety of rich themes to comment
on society. And while some might point that the portrayal of the
Umbrella Corporation can be seen as Anderson exhibiting an anti-
capitalist stance, he adds nothing to the argument, seemingly content
to regurgitate an idea that has grown stale over the course of six
films.Now, I'm not saying that action films such as Resident Evil: The Final
Chapter cannot and should not be enjoyed. If you enjoy Anderson's
latest, more power to you. But an underrated piece of art misunderstood
by audiences and critics worldwide this isn't. Any promise that the
film might have is snuffed out because of Anderson's listless writing
and directing, White's headache-inducing editing, and the plethora of
other flaws present. Indeed, The Final Chapter should make good on its
promise and truly be the final one.Rating: 2/10 (Painful)
