1
chronically unfunny

Typical international cast diversity propaganda, comedy wanna be,
cliché ridden, mundane and at the left.The first hour of the movie: 2 short action scenes and the rest is
unfunny dialog in a roomSecond hour of the movie: 2 short action scenes and still the same
retarded unfunny dialog with your cliché ending.The acting felt forced. The story was far-fetched, with your cliché
Russian villain with half a brain, the action was not believable and
silly, the dialog was annoying and unfunny.This movie by far is not an action movie, since it has only 15 minutes
of action at best and that's out of 2 hours of running time.Most of the movie the people are talking in a room, lead characters
constantly arguing with one another for no reason at all, just so to
bring up one unrelated to the plot issue or the other. It seems that
this movie was about interracial relationships, not action or comedy.The dialog was silly, if not to say idiotic, overacted, not funny.The movie is just not funny overall. The only reason it made money was
the star power behind this movie. Oldman, Jackson, Reynolds, Hayek. I
guess most of the movie budget was spent on them and the rest on the
script. Thus, the comedic fail.All went to see Jackson and Reynolds who are both good actors, and they
both sucked in this one. Oldman, usually brilliant, is really trying to
act as the Russian villain, only to look silly as another cliché "evil
Russian guy". Salma Hayek is simply annoying in this one.The problem with this movie is that there's too much political agenda
and they forgot about the humour and action.There are literally no jokes through out the movie, only silly acting
at best and sarcastic passive aggressive BS.So, there is almost no action and no jokes. So how in hell is this an
action-comedy?This is a crappy hardly believable weirdly romantic interracial, may be
even gay, feminist drama with really annoying acting, two really
empowered women of different ethnic backgrounds and the two lead male
characters are both cucks.Basically, this movie is about two cucks who are being nagged on by two
empowered bitches and the Russian guy who is trying to kill them all,
coz he had a life before, but now he got no life.What a tragedy. Really sad and boring movie.
