3
Wow, this was quite the stinker!

I just don't know where to begin... ...well lets start with the story, a films core. The Snowman's plot and
its execution was all over the place. It's not just that it was
nonsensical and just laughably stupid by the end, but the movie was
filled with scenes and complete subplots that were completely
inconsequential and unnecessary. Some characters and their whole
storyline could easily have been cut out and it wouldn't have had any
effect on the plot. Excuse me, did I write characters? There were none
in this film, only famous and recognizable faces who were hired because
of their name. Talking about this stellar cast full of fantastic
actors, they just as easily could have been replaced by complete
unknowns and it wouldn't have changed a thing. I feel bad for them,
since Fassbender is in my opinion one of the best working actors today,
along with Charlotte Gainsbourg, J.K. Simmons and Toby Jones who
unfortunately just did not have anything to work with from the get go.Okay, lets talk about the execution of this mess. It starts out slow
after a very odd opening and stays that way for more than half of the
movie. Nothing important happens. Then we are introduced to some new
"characters" and subplots, which also didn't add anything to the film.
Then there's some effort to build Fassbender's "character", which had
no payoff and was completely unconvincing anyway. Then by the time you
get to the half-way point you're bored out of your mind and already
know who done did the things that had been done, so there's no reveal
or twist by the end. And that ending. It is just completely ridiculous
and has a few unintentionally laugh out loud moments. So, there's that.I have to say that I haven't read the source material, so I don't know
if it's as bad as the film (probably not), but the film is just bad.
Really bad. It's extremely stale and bafflingly stupid, which caught me
off guard, since there was a time where Scorsese was set to direct. I
wonder if he could have made it work. The only good that's worth mentioning is that the setting is very
pretty to look at, shot at times beautifully, which at least adds a
certain atmosphere to the film and lastly there was some fun gore and
unintentionally funny scenes. So don't go out of your way the see this one, it's a stinker.
