5
This Jobs biopic lacks a heart and soul

"If you don't share our enthusiasm and care for the vision of this
company. Get out! You're done."How could you make a biopic about an inspirational and visionary man in
such a bland manner? The film lacked the very elements that made Steve
Jobs such a creative entrepreneur. It's a shame because the subject
matter alone almost guarantees you will watch a great film. Jobs has
altered our lives; at this very moment I'm writing from one of his Mac
computers while my brothers are chatting on their iphones and listening
to music on their ipods. Somehow such great material got lost along the
way and this Joshua Michael Stern directed film simply looks like a
made for TV biopic. It is one of those movies that are so uninspired
and consist of bad writing that you simply thought it was made for TV.
Take for example The Social Network, a film about the creator of
Facebook, a biopic I thought beforehand was going to be dull and
boring, but was completely blown away by Aaron Sorkin's script. He made
Mark Zuckerberg look completely appealing. But here we have a much more
visionary person like Steve Jobs whose story we all want to see told on
film and the result from Matt Whiteley's script is completely
uninspiring. The film could be called Apple Inc because it felt like it
focused more on his creation than on the creator. There is nothing
innovative about this biopic, but the good news is that Aaron Sorkin is
working on a script for another Steve Jobs biopic that hopefully will
make justice of such an inspirational man. I can't even blame Ashton
Kutcher for the failure of this film, because the main problem here was
that the script was so bland that all we had were one dimensional
characters having uninspired dialogues. If I had never heard of Jobs
before I would've thought that this visionary and charismatic leader
was simply a dull and unloving person. You simply don't care for the
Steve Jobs that's presented here.The film begins by introducing us to Steve Jobs (Ashton Kutcher) as he
is presenting his latest creation, the ipod which will change the way
people listen to music everywhere (as we already know). That is as far
as the film goes as we jump back to the past and see Steve dropping out
of college sometime during the 70's. He attended some creative classes
simply as a drop in, but he spent most of his time getting high with
his friend Daniel (Lukas Haas), with whom he also travelled to India
for a spiritual visit. Back at the US, Jobs worked at Atari where he
had trouble getting along with his coworkers. He was offered a special
deal to create a circuit board and that is where he got his friend Woz
(Josh Gad) to help him out. After having success, Jobs and Woz
partnered together selling circuit boards and founded their own small
business in his parents' garage. Along with Daniel and Woz, Steve hired
Rod Holt (Ron Eldard) to help out with the engineering of the first
Apple computer. Their next challenge was to get the funding needed to
build the company, which they finally got from Mike Markkula (Dermot
Mulroney). The film then goes on to focus on Apple's early success and
later Steve's trouble getting along with the company's CEO, John
Sculley (Matthew Modine), his forced retirement from his own company
and then his return to Apple several years later. It's a shame the film focused so much on Jobs's turmoil years and left
out the most creative period of his life: his successful return to
Apple. I was OK with the fact that it showed his early beginnings at
his garage because that is where the dream was born, but I wish the
film would've focused more on his successes. Jobs wasn't portrayed as a
saint either, and that is a plus, we see how turbulent and erratic his
behavior was at times as a temperamental manager. Ashton Kutcher wasn't
terrible as Jobs, he got some of his posture right (the scene where he
walks across the hallway at Apple is near perfect) and at times the
tone of his voice was also right, but I also felt that there were
several scenes where he lost that voice and simply became Ashton
Kutcher again. The narrative structure of the film didn't work either.
I felt there were so many moments that seemed disconnected at times and
rushed. It's like they got some details right, but the motivation
behind Jobs' work was left out. His character lacked depth and so did
everyone else's who simply come in and out of the film to set the next
stage. I don't think that the perfectionist "Father of the Digital
Revolution" would've approved of this movie if he were alive today. The
biopic simply scratches the surface of Jobs' life, but stays away from
his heart and what really motivated him to be the visionary innovator
he was. I'll be looking forward to Sorkin's take on his life.
