1
It Was Like Having Someone Fart In My Face For 90 Minutes!

*WARNING!* - *Possible Spoilers Ahead!* This film's first fatal mistake - Having The Three Stooges agree to
kill someone. I don't care how this murder was justified, the original
Three Stooges would never, ever, ever agree to commit an act of
homicide. NEVER! There's nothing funny about murder.2nd fatal mistake - Showing The Three Stooges as children. This was
pure nonsense and it wasted the first 15 minutes of this movie. And it
was not funny.3rd fatal mistake - Filming the story in color and having it set in
modern times was a grave error. It would have been so much more
effective had the story been given a nostalgic, 1940's look.4th fatal mistake - No pie fights!!! This movie desperately cried out
for a few custard-cream pies thrown into some very deserving faces.
And, I'm sorry, but, the overlong scene of the pissing babies (though
it was funny at first, but was carried on for far too long) didn't
compensate for the thrill of seeing someone get a pie right in the
kisser.5th fatal mistake - Having to endure a shirtless Peter Farrelly
(writer/ director) at the end of the film, flexing and posing in the
name of total conceitedness, while at the same time telling the viewer
about the hazards of imitating the eye-pokes, face-slaps, etc., etc.
that were seen in the film. Like, as though this self-loving poser
cared. He just wanted a chance to display (hubba-hubba!) his
over-developed pecs to us.6th fatal mistake - Not only did I find that there was no chemistry
between the actors who played The Three Stooges, but, Moe didn't
command and none of them understood anything about comic-timing (an
essentially important element in any slapstick comedy situation).And, finally - 7th fatal mistake (phew!) - In regards to this picture in general -
They say that imitation is one of the highest forms of flattery. This,
in a sense, is quite true if the imitating is done out of real respect
for its subject. And this was not the case here with The Three Stooges.These actors may have been doing their perceived "imitation" of the
Stooges, but, it wasn't being done with any reverence or regard for the
original Stooges. It was done in a very conceited and disrespectful
manner.These actors gave me the clear impression that they thought what they
were doing was actually improving on the original Stooges. And that,
from my viewpoint, is a fatal mistake which is totally unforgivable.Personally, I think this film should've never been made. The Three
Stooges should've just been left alone. And, that's the truth!
