10
"The Conjuring 2" Is Equivalent To Its Predecessor, Diabolically Creepy

James Wan is the genuine Sir Alfred Hitchcock of the 21st centuryThree years ago, the world went crazy with the 5th invention of the
Malay director, James Wan - my king, master and role model -. "The
Conjuring" triumphs in critics and box office bringing a breakthrough
and resurgence to horror movies in the last decade, it was compared
with classics like "The Exorcist" and "The Omen" and is considered as
the master jewel of Malayan and the cinematographic of horror. Wan has
continuously been providing us great achievements in commercial films,
since his major debut as a director with "Saw" in 2004 to his first
action film "7 Furious" last year; his shiny and original style to
portray suspense and horror through each frame, has made to the
director reaches to the top of podium of the films, not only in the
horror genre, also the action genre, and we hope more he'll try to
experiment. "The Conjuring 2" opens the same iconic way that its predecessor, now
is the famous case of Amityville (112 Ocean Avenue) which reveals to Ed
and Lorraine Warren, the renowned paranormal investigators duo.
Amityville was the event that gave them renown and recognition to
investigators, but not by their horrible experiences, but by unbelief
and ignorance of the people, which didn't believe it possible that
those things happen. Later, within the film, we continue to validating
in a 90s TV Show lack of confidence and credibility of the people
towards the Warrens. Ironically, that skepticism would be powered once
more with the Enfield Poltergeist, the case more documented to
paranormal level. The famous massacre (DeFeo family) has been adapted
millions and millions of times a big screen, however, Wan manages to
save that gloomy essence of the night of the murder and projects it of
a delirious and disturbing way in Lorraine's head, from the first
minutes, "HORROR" genre shines.The Enfield Case is adapted with purity and splendor of a script
credited to Carey Hayes and Chad Hayes & James Wan and David Leslie
Johnson. Wan dodges references of the two small programs have focused
on the event (BBC's "Ghostwatch" and Timothy Spall's miniseries) to
develop to Ed and Lorraine in the story (in real life, Warrens had not
the least significance in the case, they only evidenced it one night).
The film takes its time - somebody says that enough, I for one, the
more see James's delights more I go crazy - to introduces the
destabilized life of Peggy Hodgson (Frances O'Connor). The events
happened in a interval between 1977 and 1979, to capture each sublime
moment of the epoch, it was vital the intervention of the Department of
costume led by Kristin Burke, the Department of light and art led by
Fiona Gavin, A. Todd Holland and Andrew Rothschild, which not
exaggerated in capturing the atmosphere of the 70s and 80s. Wan is
amazing to recreate complex and refined milieus and sets, every shadow,
square, furniture, door, toy and even each color play a fundamental
role in the creation of the style of the director, a director who is
delicately precise with his details, even though was a humble house,
without many luxuries or support tools, the visual tension is
concurrent.On a night as any, Hodgson family is sleeping peacefully after a tiring
day. Two of the four children, Janet (Madison Wolfe) and Margaret
(Lauren Esposito) are awakened abruptly from their nap by an unknown
entity, immediately, they go to tell what happened them to her mother,
who refuses to believe and finds an Ouija board manually made by her
daughters. Next day, harassment persist more sharply up to the point
that the mother experiences with her own eyes paranormal events -
James's interesting proposal to not to fall into the cliché that nobody
believes them. Meanwhile, a suggestive sub-plot takes place in Warren
family. Lorraine tends to keep fragments of each case and in their
latest investigations, she sees to the Demon Nun (Bonnie Aarons), a
superb and shocking demonic nun who torments them with a sinister
intent, that purpose will intertwine of a sumptuous way with Hodgson's
ending (which never happened).Wan knows how to distort every trick in his favor, rung by rung
construction makes that final climax has really earned. Wan is
distinguished by the ability to frighten or intimidate the audience
with shots both day as at night, he knows play and combine the tools
that possesses, knows to keep constant tone of his film, he doesn't
allow his audience to sleep, and even though this time he uses to more
jump-scares than its predecessor, are equally enjoyable and are not
shamelessly used. All of the above is essential in the foundations,
however, the actors take all the credit Ed, Lorraine, Peggy and her
four children (especially Janet) are fabulous, measured and
charismatic."The Conjuring 2" is credited with the title "Horror film of the year"
and is used for viewing the constant advancement of its director within
the genre, it's hard to watch and hear, the film is not suitable for
hearts or minds weak, "The Conjuring 2" an instant classic.
