1
Probably The Dumbest Movie Ever Made In Movie History **** This Review May Contain Spoilers *****

Oh what to say about this garbage of a movie? Oh yea I wish I were be
able to give this movie a 0/10 but due to IMDb I have to give at least
a 1. That is how awful and stupid this movie is. The only 2 good things
about this movie are the Universal logo and when this movie finally
over. Although I haven't really sat through this piece of crap I'm
still giving it my review y'all could hate on me but I don't care.
Okay, so yea I've only sat through like half hour or so but I had to
turn off the TV because it was really stupid and unrealistic in terms
of college and probably the worst movie of 2012 that I've seen. This
movie is not funny it's stupid and inaccurate when it comes to being in
college. The students in the movie are not even carrying any books
around, so what do students do in the movie? Do they learn anything?
Another thing, the selection of music. The selection of music in this
movie is absolutely horrible, I hate modern pop it's really stupid and
overrated and they only played that in this movie and with People in
this movie messing it up even more now it's even more annoying now and
then they try to rap to a throwback from the 80s or 90s, wow really
why? That's my jam there and they just messed it up with their annoying
ass auto tuned singing voices. Plus this movie is not funny it's dumb,
annoying and overrated, critics why are you giving this piece of crap
so much credit that it does not deserve at ALL? That goes for people
too that suck this movie's dick. Seriously the score for this movie is
too high, a 7.2 is way too high for this movie . I'm not even gonna
bother finishing this movie, half hour is already a lot of time wasted
on this bull-crap, okay Fat Amy is not funny at all people I didn't
laugh at her jokes once, because there stupid and unfunny to me and all
the rest of the humor in this damn movie is dumb and unfunny. I do not
recommend this movie, If you like stupid ass overrated movies or crap
like Glee or anything like that you'll like this one but otherwise if
you do have common sense, do not waste your valuable hard working time,
your time is much much more important than this movie. I would NEVER
pay money to even get this on DVD. So yea people don't watch this movie
this movie sucksand is stupidly overrated and over-hyped. Well people if you get mad at
me, you should be grateful that I'm saving you from wasting your
valuable time from this movie. Well anyway this it people bye have a
great day. Please do not your waste your time on Pitch Perfect it is so
absolutely God awful.
