10
Welcome to the Dollhouse cult at Frightfest brought straight to you

This is the seventh instalment of the Child's play Franchise, which I
am lucky to be at the eighteenth Frightfest film festival. This is my
first time and I had a dream come true to see a Chucky movie premiere.
If you think Curse of Chucky is good, Cult of Chucky is even better,
and here is why with major spoilers.It's been four years since the Pierce family were murdered. Andy
Barclay (Vincent) has a date with Rachel in a swanky restaurant as they
both drank white wine. Rachel probed further as Andy explained Aunt
Maggie's demise, she finds it too overwhelming and leaves Andy
abandoned at the restaurant. Andy Barclay morose about his life
situation came home in his cabin with hunted game trophies hung on the
wall and armoury, nothing but beer stack in the fridge. Opens a
security safe and the blasted head of Chucky from the last movie begins
to tease and sneers at Andy, so with a blowtorch Chucky gets some
torture but remained alive. Barclay vows to find Nica Pierce.Nica is moving from Lockmore hospital to a less security psychiatric
ward called Harrogate psychiatric hospital when she meets Claire,
Multiple Malcolm and others. As Nica was settling in with a brief
affair with Malcolm, then Tiffany Valentine (Jennifer Tilly) as Alice's
legal Guardian brings tragic news to Nica that made her weep, as she
comes to terms with her great loss, a Chucky doll is brought into
therapy session, one patient accepts the doll as her child, Nica
explained in realisation that the woman who visited her was Charles Lee
Ray's Girlfriend and Chucky "serial killer in the eighties who murdered
twenty-two people" during his human years, of course nobody believes
her, Dr Foley claimed about 20 percent of good guy dolls are called
Chucky and her delusions are perpetual, and to prove it, he burns
Chucky's hand. Clare storms off with the doll to dispose as he bit her
arm, she alerts people but they lock her up, and she dies.Nica was on the verge of committing suicide when Chucky wrote in blood
"not so fast" and the older patient died next morning wrote in blood
"Chucky did it" which put the blame on Nica. Another good guy doll
called Chucky arrived by post, then Andy tracks the Harrogate
psychiatric hospital to bring a short haired Good Guy doll from his
safe keeping, and there is a multiple Chucky tag team of dolls. There
is a crazy twist to the ending to explain Andy was tricked into a
psychiatric padded room, and Charles Lee Ray won through the battle and
finally turns human in a human being of an unsuspected person as the
awaiting Tiffany Valentine gave a passionate Kiss as they drove off to
oblivion. Then a nemesis sent by Andy's request from Chucky's past
comes to torture the talking severed doll's head (from curse of Chucky)
to get answers which makes way for another sequel.This opens up Child's play Eight in four years time.I love it! Like a puzzle and good pacing with some comedy including
twists and turns. Nica starts walking and it is up to you as viewers to
find out why, and many surprises galore to where that came from. I
recommend this movie. It is even better than curse of Chucky, it is
surreal and dream like, Chucky becomes powerful than ever, lighting and
photography is well presented. A bit of thought had gone into it but I
do love psychological mystery Horror anyway. I don't have to elucidate,
Go see it much highly recommended.
