8
I think the critics have been way too harsh in this case - It's actually rather good.

As you can probably gather I thought this was another very good
addition to the X-Men franchise. Whilst it doesn't hit the heady
heights of Days of Future Past it still is a really good watch and I
fail to see why it has had a mixed press.Firstly I found it to have a perfectly serviceable story, with
Apocalypse and his followers recruiting the very vulnerable and angry
Magneto as part of his plan to destroy civilisation and rebuild it in
his image. Fassbender turns in another solid performance and you really
feel his pain and confusion for the Erik/Magneto character. I also
thought all the supporting cast were absolutely fine in their roles,
and to me Evan Peters as Quicksilver really stole the scenes he was in
and makes a fine addition to the cast. The same also goes to Tye
Sheridan as Scott/Cyclops, whose back story is filled in better and
with more depth than it was in the Wolverine origins film.I see the critics have been moaning about having too many characters in
the film, yet I actually think it was handled better than it was in the
Captain America: Civil War film. In Apocalypse the large cast do
actually have something to do and contribute to the story, whereas the
Captain America film felt like some were shoe horned in, which I felt
made that film feel bloated and repetitive whereas this one at least
get the storyline moving. I felt that Civil War felt way too long
because of all the story padding yet Apocalypse, whilst also a long
film, kept my interest to the end (and yes there is a post credits
scene that I suspect is setting up Wolverine 3). I should also add that
Apocalypse, despite it's bleak story, does have some moments of humour
and wit that went down well with the audience.I also felt the surprise appearance of Wolverine fitted in nicely with
the back story that we already know, particularly the one told in X Men
2 and the Origins film, nicely closing that particular characters story
arc and fitting in perfectly with the circumstances surrounding his
appearance in the very first X-Men film of 16 years ago. If this is to
be Wolverines final appearance with the X-men then they have given him
a lovely send off.I did find some minor flaws with the film though, particularly with the
visual appearance of some of the characters and how their ages don't
compute when the first X-men film of 2000 is taken into account.
However, asides from that I thoroughly enjoyed X-Men Apocalypse and
thought it was a solid & worthy addition to the other X-Men films. The
films had spectacle, action, laughs and carried on with the journeys of
the characters we have got to know and love over the past sixteen
years.
