1
Worse Than A Virus

Back when THE TWILIGHT ZONE episode TO AGNES WITH LOVE showed
antisocial, lust- burdened geek Wally Cox falling hard for his
female-voiced computer, it probably seemed pretty bizarre since
office-sized computers weren't exactly a commodity...Skip to the early eighties with the obscure movie ELECTRIC DREAMS:
since PC's had barely taken off, it was downright extraordinary that a
talking computer would behave in a humanly if diabolical fashion...But the last twenty years with Internet chat rooms, social networks,
dating websites and the navigating Siri herself, having a physically
benign relationship via machine isn't entirely far-fetched. And in the
near-future world, brought to life by writer/director Spike Jonze, it's
an all too normal occurrence.Joaquin Phoenix plays Theodore, a lonely writer working at a job
perfectly suited for quirky art-house fare: writing actual letters for
other people by speaking into a computer. But things happen after
Theodore gets home. Brooding through a divorce, he downloads a brand
new operating system, OS1, which includes the girl of his dreams,
Samantha, a computer taking care of just about every task, voiced by a
soothingly silky-toned Scarlett Johansson.The setup is intriguing. Theodore and Samantha get to know each other
as he ventures outside and, with a camera in his phone and hearing her
voice from an earpiece, she can view the real world: from outdoor malls
to beaches to the wilderness, Samantha experiences life while not only
saying the right things things but singing and composing music to fit
each location and mood. An intriguing premise is hindered by the relationship seeming way too
normal – to Theodore and just about everyone else. Since he admits
outright to having a personal relationship with an OS, there's no
mystery or guilt involved with such a unique concept. Not only that but
Phoenix, no stranger to intense/bizarre characters, isn't given a
chance to shine in his usual askew light. And the sappy, downright
embarrassing scenes where Theodore and Samantha confess their mutual
adoration is like overhearing a smitten couple whispering sweet
nothings, making the audience a third wheel… which ultimately goes
flat. Perhaps if, like 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY, Samantha got real dirty we'd
have a relationship worth the experience. FATAL ATTRACTION goes viral
would beat this searing hipster flick with more naval-gazing theme than
plot line. Although there is one particular "baby alien" on Theodore's
virtual realty game console that, like the sassy, foul-mouthed teddy
bear TED, would have made a much more unpredictable, entertaining
sidekick.
