3
A Hopeless Plot

Let me start by saying that the visuals in the movie are great, acting
is reasonable, and although the general story is slow, it has a lot of
potential. That is where the positivity ends. For me, the abundance of
plot holes / inconsistencies completely ruined the film. Whilst some of
these might seem like nitpicking, when you add them together it really
detracts from what could have been a great movie. I was asking
questions like;- The machines seem to have amazing technology, except being able to
keep consistent radio transmission.- How did Jack and Victoria figure that their control centre / home was
built with no humans? If by the machines, then surely the machines are
capable of handling drone maintenance themselves, making their roles
totally redundant?- Why does the machine mother ship's communication go offline
constantly?- Why are the machines always short on drones?- Jack has an obvious disposition toward protecting humans, yet the
other humans constantly wear armor that make them seem non-human? There
is ample opportunity to approach Jack whilst he makes repairs or is on
his own.- Despite Jack / Victoria's control center / home being somewhere in
the stratosphere, it seems to have swimming temperature and calm wind
conditions.- Why does Victoria's character have her head completely in the sand,
whilst Jack appears to be quite free-thinking?- Why are the drone cameras not visible to the machine control? This
would have exposed significant intelligence about the humans numerous
times. It is standard even with drone technology today.- How can the flight log still hear what the NASA flight crew are
saying whilst they fly into the white light? If it was in the crashed
ship then it must have been disconnected with the sleeping passengers
(this is a clear error)?- The machine mothership didn't consider that maybe Jack was smuggling
something into the ship? Especially after it was clear he knew that
they were not human?- Broken drones are easily repaired with chewing gum.- How did Jack build an entire home on the lake with no obvious access
to building equipment or resources?- The machines could scan Jack's ship upon entry (presumably by some
sort of infrared) and see that there was another passenger, but were
not able to distinguish a male from a female? Despite them at times
being able to match Jack's DNA on visual recognition?- In 2017 suspended animation seems to have been perfected?- Why were Jack and Victoria due to go back to Triton in two weeks?- The aliens seem to have not nailed memory wiping technology at all.I could go on and on, but this is just the tip of an iceberg for a
truly ridiculous plot.
