9
Shines a light on the inadequacy of both secular materialism and fundamentalist religion

Christianity came to Western Japan in 1542 by way of Jesuit
missionaries from Portugal who brought gunpowder and religion. They
were welcomed mostly for the weapons they brought and their religion
was allowed to be practiced openly. Christianity was banned, however,
after reports circulated of missionary intolerance towards the Shinto
and Buddhist religions, and there were rumors of the sale of Japanese
into overseas slavery. It wasn't until the late 1630s, however, that a
complete ban on Christianity was declared and enforced by the Tokugawa
Shogunate and persecutions, torture, and murders were relentlessly
pursued.Based on Shusaku Endo Edo's 1966 historical novel culled from the oral
histories of Japanese Catholics, Martin Scorsese's masterful film
Silence brings us face to face with the repression faced by the early
missionaries. While the film does not condone the subjugation of
religious minorities, it examines the advisability of attempting to
convert a country's population without a deep understanding of their
beliefs and traditions. The film opens in 1635 as two Jesuit priests,
Sebastian Rodrigues (Andrew Garfield, "Hacksaw Ridge") and Francesco
Garrpe (Adam Driver, "Paterson"), request permission from their
superior Father Valignano (Ciaran Hinds, "Bleed for This") to go to
Japan to discover the fate of their mentor, Father Cistavio Ferreira
(Liam Neeson, "A Monster Calls"), rumored to have renounced his faith
and to be living with a Japanese wife.The missionaries are not unaware of the persecution and murder of
thousands of peasants and priests who have converted to Christianity,
yet they are anxious to undertake their dangerous mission to support
the local Christians and to find out the truth about Father Ferreira.
When they arrive in Japan they are greeted by a group of "hidden
Christians" known as "kakure kirishitan" who have been compelled to
publicly renounce their faith and go into hiding to practice their
faith in secret, knowing that anyone can earn 100 pieces of silver for
turning in a Christian to the authorities and 300 pieces for
surrendering a priest. Here, the two priests hear confessions and give
baptisms and say mass in the middle of the night In order to avoid
capture.Working with such past collaborators as Editor Thelma Schoonmaker
("Learning to Drive"), Production Designer Dante Ferretti
("Cinderella"), and Cinematographer Rodrigo Prieto ("The Wolf of Wall
Street"), Scorsese does not hold back in showing the graphic nature of
the torture that those who are arrested must endure. This includes
beheadings, being wrapped in straw and burned alive or thrown into the
sea. Some are mounted on a cross and placed in the sea until death
comes mercifully after repeated pounding of the waves against them. For
some, to die a martyr is a high calling, one which will be rewarded in
the afterlife and they accept their fate willingly similar to today's
Islamic suicide bombers.Rodrigues, however, now separated from Garrpe, takes on a Christ-like
appearance and begins to see himself as the personification of Jesus.
He now must choose between rigidly maintaining his religious beliefs or
saving the lives of innocent villagers by surrendering to the audacious
Inquisitor (Issey Ogata) by placing his foot on a carved Christian icon
known as a fumie, an act tantamount to renouncing his faith. In doing
so, Rodrigues thinks about Kichijiro (Yôsuke Kubozuka, "Deadman
Inferno"), a convert who continually begs for the Sacrament of Penance
after he apostasizes again and again. The issues are further
crystallized when Rodrigues confronts the truth about Father Ferreira.While Silence does not fully achieve the transcendence of a true
spiritual epic, Scorsese should be acknowledged for opening up the
space for a meaningful inquiry into a subject that has perplexed
countless philosophers and students of religions for centuries. Perhaps
inadvertently, the film, however, does shine a light on the inadequacy
of both secular materialism and fundamentalist religion to satisfy our
true spiritual needs and answer the overriding question of the film.
This must be answered by each person through their own direct
experience. For me, to know God is to embrace the silence, to live in
it, and know that it is the "source of all sound."
