9
Blood-Soaked but Heartfelt

"The Babysitter", Netflix's original Friday the 13th offering, mixes
its blood-spattered horror with a funny coming-of-age story. In fact,
the entire first act is almost completely devoid of horrific elements
and committed to letting the audience get to know its plucky hero. The
movie starts with Cole (Judah Lewis), a twelve- year-old boy who still
screams and struggles like a much younger child when it's time to get a
shot. Cole is afraid of everything, constantly bullied, and completely
oblivious to the fact that girl next door Melanie (Emily Alyn Lind) has
a crush on him. Cole has a crush of his own, on his babysitter Bee
(Samara Weaving). Why should he care about being too old to still need
a babysitter when his parents want some time out of the house, when his
sitter's this hot and this cool? She sticks up for him when he's being
picked on, watches old movies with him, and indulges his nerdy
hypothetical questions about which science fiction characters would
make the best team for saving the world from evil.Then things take a really dark turn. At Melanie's urging, Cole sneaks
out of bed to spy on Bee. He catches her playing a game of Truth or
Dare that ends with her giving quick kisses to jock Max (Robbie Amell),
goth Sonya (Hana Mae Lee), and class clown John (Andrew Bachelor), and
a long, passionate one to cheerleader Allison (Bella Thorne), before
making out with her dorky boyfriend Samuel (Doug Haley) . . . and then
knifing him in the head. Turns out Bee has promised her friends she can
make all of their dreams come true if they participate in this Satanic
ritual she knows. The ritual also involves taking a few harmless drops
of blood from Cole, but when the clique finds out he's seen too much,
they won't settle for that.The stock characters that would have been helplessly butchered in 80's
horror movies are the monsters here, but they're also still victims. As
Cole faces his fears and makes them chase him around his house, they
each end up meeting a gory demise one by one. Never mind the times
where Cole gets outside of the house and then runs right back in, just
for the sake of continuing their deadly game of tag for the sake of
there being a movie.Robbie Amell is a surprising standout. Very amiable for being both a
dumb jock and a psycho killer, Max takes the occasional break from the
chase to try to play big brother to Cole, mentoring him on how to stand
up for himself before resuming trying to kill him. But it's really
Judah Lewis and Samara Weaving's show. With all the time invested into
getting to know them at the beginning of the movie, they manage to make
you believe, or at least want to believe, that there's still genuine
affection between the babysitter and her charge, even after she's set
her friends on hunting him down. As a result, the inevitable
confrontation between them is actually quite poignant and touching.Director McG cut his teeth on music videos before helming 2000's TV to
screen adaptation of "Charlie's Angels", which I always found fun and
exciting (though I wish he hadn't let all the reviews praising the
movie for not taking itself too seriously go to his head, since the
sequel shifted from tongue-in-cheek to absurd self-parody) and his
flashy style is on full display here. I found myself wondering how long
we have until on-screen text and quirky soundtrack cues being treated
like additional characters makes a movie feel dated instead of hip and
modern, but I did grin at a couple of the captions and song choices, so
here I'll allow it.There's plenty of comically over-the-top gore, but moments meant to be
suspenseful are more eye-rolling that nail-biting, so if you're looking
for something to make you scream and jump out of your chair, this may
be the wrong movie for you. But if you're looking for a sly and silly
send-up of films about nubile teens being massacred and one with plenty
of heart beneath the gruesome exterior, you may find yourself falling
in love.
