4
This movie has no soul

I was really excited to see this movie considering all the creative and
successful names that were attached to it. However I came out of it
more frustrated than anything else. I really wanted to like this movie
but I couldn't, and here are some reasons why: Straight from the beginning, I couldn't help but notice that the movie
was trying too hard to be similar to recently successful sci fi films
rather than trying to find its own style (Avatar, The Avengers, Batman
Begins and the Matrix come to mind). Then there were the minor plot
holes, inconsistencies and lack of believability or followthrough that
would have brought that extra touch of realism. But the real downfall
of the film was the matter-of-fact and detached style by which it was
presented to the audience. This left the movie emotionally empty and
with no one to identify with. As the movie continued it became more of
the same going through the motions (ok now this happened, and now this
happened, oh and now this is happening) to the point where I didn't
really care about the movie or characters any more, I just wanted the
monotony to be over. This is the reason it felt rushed and long at the
same time, like key elements were underdeveloped and missing. This is a
great example of how you can have the most massive, amazing grandiose
scale special effects and world altering events on screen but without
the proper build up and audience investment I didn't really care about
the characters, and continued to grow bored until I just wanted it to
end. The trailers were more suspenseful than the actual movie for
crying out loud.I'm not sure whose fault it was- the editor, the director, the script,
post production but a little more than half way through it started to
feel like it was dragging. You can walk out of a really enjoyable film
after 3 hours and not realize how much time has gone by. I would not
have minded if the movie was 15 minutes longer but had the slightest
bit of suspense, emotion or character development in it. It felt like
it was cut down to its bare bones- you cant omit that stuff to make
room for more special effects, if that is in fact what they were doing.
No amount of action can ever replace good story telling. Instead what
we got was clichéd one liners and characters going through the motions
interacting with themselves so to speak instead of playing off each
other, like in a bad video game. Even great acting from Michael Shannon
and Russel Crowe wasn't enough to elevate their characters from
appearing as one-dimensional cliff notes. It's not being too picky when
you want something essential and basic that every movie should have and
when many people didn't like the movie for the exact same reasons. I
also found the writing to be lazy, and without giving too much away,
certain plot elements could have been used to show that Superman was
not just all brawn but brains as well. Plus, Lois knows and thats just
boring. It seems to be a growing trend in blockbuster movies these days, while
trying to make the movie more modern, technologically up to date and
fit for a younger audience, story telling takes a back seat to cheap
thrills and special effects to get more people into the theater. It's a
shame then that this movie feels like an attempt to mash together as
many unoriginal blockbuster genres with as much mindless action special
effects as humanly possible, most likely in an attempt to compete in
the 'how big can we make this' superhero franchise. I like special
effects and I know its good for business, but does the movie making
process have to suffer to such an extent as a consequence? Even the
Avengers with its multitude of characters was able to pull of an
engaging thrill ride compared to this. To those trying to undermine the critics I have a few things to say. I
like Snyder's previous films and particularly enjoyed Watchmen, so I
would have had no problem with a darker of more serious version of
Superman, except this movie was none of those things. I feel a lot of
people who will defend the movie don't have much to say besides
'superman was a badass compared to other movies' and 'it was visually
impressive'. They refuse to see the whole picture and realize that a
shiny toy is just a shiny toy. The critics didn't rate this movie
poorly because it was serious, dark or they didn't like Snyder's style-
it was because the movie didn't have a unique character, or any style
Snyder is famous for. While that 'satisfied feeling' you had at the end
of the movie instead of the 'wanting more' feeling really shows how
mundane it really was. A movie of this magnitude should leave you
wanting more, for a sequel or at least for a second viewing. After
watching this movie I had no desire for either of those things. Just
because a film has amazing special effects does not automatically make
it a good movie. What this movie did was ironically give me a new appreciation for
Superman Returns. While Bryan Singer's approach to the character and
story was somewhat dated, it was a polished work that (while it didn't
appeal to everybody) was executed very well in all aspects, especially
story telling. The difference is that people didn't like MOS not
because it had a unique style, but because it wasn't a complete film,
and the difference shows. An ideal Superman movie in my opinion would
combine the best aspects of both films. A modern approach with exciting
and relatable character development and story telling that Superman
deserves. Just felt like I needed to express my disappointment and
frustrations at this squandered potential.
