6
"Your future depends on women,," (dialog)

Every now and again, a film comes along that contains a scene so
memorable that , the moment you see it, you immediately know that you
will still be remembering it long after the rest of the film is lost to
history. This is one of those films. Overall, it is yet another
"drama-dy" of the type that de Niro has been losing himself in, at this
later stage of his spectacular career. It is one of those films which,
as the professional critics say, was doomed to fail, since the premise
is so weak that, even if it were to fire on all cylinders (which it
does not) you would still not get much of a bang.But in the first 20 mins of this film, viewers get a treat.
Transplanted to France as part of some not very credible WPP (witness
protection program) de Niro's daughter Belle, well played by Dianna
Agron, gets "offered a lift home" by a quartet of local punks looking
to see that the girl's first day at school is memorable. She accepts.
They drive to a secluded spot and she protests. Punk #1 basically
ignores her and meaningfully brushes some of her clothing aside. She
excuses herself, goes to the car, picks up a tennis racket (iconic, of
course, in American gangster fiction) and promptly beats the %^$% out
of the guy while his friends watch. She then effectively steals the car
and drives herself home. While beating him senseless, this is the art
in the scene, she lectures him as if he were a small child. She
concludes her monologue with the epic line, "WOMEN ARE YOUR FUTURE" and
then one more smack upside the head with the bat to drive the point
home. I do believe this scene is right up there with the best talking
points in Thelma and Louise, and maybe one or two other feminist
classics also. But that folks is where the wonderment ends. The rest of
the film is not much to write home about, except perhaps for the
annotation that, in her late 50s, Pfeiffer is still one of the most
beautiful women in the world.
