4
Insults about half of the original fans

With the admonition, "I never liked the bitch anyway," the Willie
character in the new DS dispatched my favorite Dark Shadows character,
pretty much summing up Depp and Burton's apparent opinion of her. For
me, Dark Shadows was about Julia and Barnabas. Their chemistry created
the dynamic that made the show work for me. I'm not only a first-
generation DS fan, I'm the co-author of the Dark Shadows Companion. Johnny Depp, supposedly a first-generation fan, even though he's two
years younger than I am and I'm supposedly very young for a first
generation fan, apparently thinks Barnabas Collins is part moral icon,
part victim of his crotch. I wonder if Depp was watching the same
series I was. As much as I loved the original Barnabas, I see no trace
of the character in his interpretation. Frankly, the minute he murdered
Julia, the whole movie collapsed for me -- the implied oral sex scene
was bad enough, but the killing finished it. In the House of Dark
Shadows big-screen remake this was accepted by fans because the series
was still on-going. Depp does not have that salvation.I really don't care that she's alive for the sequel. I doubt there will
be a sequel. If there is, it's still not the characters I grew up with. However, we're supposed to be reviewing what the film is, not what it's
not. What it is, is an overstuffed suitcase that somebody sat on in
order to zip it shut. It spills out all over everywhere. The
cohesiveness is forced. The characters are largely unrecognizable. As I
watched the film, I was at first taken by the wonderful graphics, but
Collinwood seemed to morph into Disneyland's Haunted Mansion.There are some good performances, it's occasionally slightly funny,
it's graphically intense and interesting, but Depp and Burton seem to
have nothing but contempt for the original series. I'm sorry, but
flawed and bad as it could be, Dark Shadows was still far more
compelling on its tiny budget than this movie was with its huge one.What a shame -- and a waste. I really wanted to like it.
