7
More than just a film about cars.

''Rush'' is a very good film about the rivalry between two Formula 1
race car drivers and their lives behind it. Directed by Ron Howard, the
film is a triumph concerning action sequences, film editing and sound.
Despite it being a sports film about racing, ''Rush'' never fails to
develop its characters, its story and its suspense thus delivering a
deeply satisfying conclusion.Beginning with the film's performances, one would expect to see little
character development, acting and emotion but a whole lot of action.
However, this is not the case. The film's performances are very good.
Daniel Brühl gives an outstanding performance as Austrian Niki Lauda:
from the character's personality, body movement, expressions and
emotions to his speaking accent, Brühl manages to handle it more than
well and deliver a very authentic and powerful performance. From his
first appearance in the film, he stays a very powerful figure
throughout the film and very memorable after it. He realizes the
character's motives and feelings which enables him to fully portray his
character. Despite his performances in films such as ''Thor'', ''Red
Dawn'' and ''The Cabin in the Woods'', Chris Hemsworth gives a decent
enough performance as James Hunt. He is far from outstanding but he
portrays his character as he should be, never overacting nor
underplaying his character, thus delivering a satisfying and believable
performance as a race car driver. The rest of the cast doesn't have
much screen time since the film mainly focuses on the two protagonists
but their acting does not disappoint.The film's exhilarating action sequences are probably the main reason
people will go to see it and they will not be disappointed. With rapid
but smooth editing, the renowned film editing duo (Daniel P. Hanley,
Mike Hill) manages to ''tell'' the story rather clearly rather than
just smothering it under its heavy action scenes. Other technical
aspects such as sound editing, sound mixing and cinematography are
superb. Sound, especially, plays a very important role in the film and
luckily, the sound is clear, realistic and not bombastic as most
Hollywood action films. The racing sequences are superb: we see them
from every angle possible, never confusing nor annoying the viewer with
their rapid cuts, instead keeping the viewer interested (especially
during the final climatic race). As for the score, Hans Zimmer's fast
paced music adds nicely to the film's racing sequences, turning the
suspense meter way up without distracting the viewer. As with most of
Zimmer's works, the film's score is very epic and memorable which
captures the film's action.What works very well in the film is the fact that it's not just a film
full or car explosions, racing and trophies but a film which tells the
story of two people who succeeded in the race tracks, a film which
doesn't drown its characters under its impressive action sequences but
allows them to breath.
