3
A dull movie with no new ideas

Miles Teller and Jonah Hill in a movie about international gun runners?
Sign me up! Is what I was saying going into the film. Coming out was a
different story. As is the story with many movies so far this year,
'War Dogs' is a boring mess of a movie. If you saw 'The infiltrator' or
read my review you know I hated that film. And for the same reasons I
hate that film, I hate this one. Except this one has the nerve to be
nearly identical to the far superior 'Wolf Of Wall Street'. This movie
hits all the same beats and story lines that Scorseses near masterpiece
does. The difference between the two is that this one is neither funny
nor entertaining to watch. It is quite possibly one of the most dull, lifeless, boring films I
have seen this year. Every time something funny or stressful could have
happened it just cuts to another scene. Or, even more upsetting, ques
up a voice over track from Teller. It blatantly skips over possible
character building scenes in favor of out of place, lazy voice overs.I don't think I would be lying when I say that there is more voice
overs here than in 'Knight of Cups'. Which literally had not script.
Why the choice was made to do this really comes down to laziness. There
is no other reason to explain why it couldn't just let scenes play out.
Not only was there countless voice overs that robbed scenes of tension,
but it also did chapter kind of things.Every twenty minutes or so a black screen with a sentence appeared on
screen, describing what we were about to see. Just like the voice work,
it didn't seem to have a point to it. It just felt like it didn't know
how to transfer to the next scene so it threw in these random titles.
They came from no where and served literally no purpose other than to
tell you what was going to happen before it did.But what was I expecting? Right from the first few scenes this film has
jarring tones that clash with each other from scene to scene. The first
shot of the movie is a tense scene involving a kidnapping and it cuts
immediately to a stylized, scene with a pop song playing over top. It
is a completely jarring tonal shift that is off and on through out the
film. And, much like 'Suicide Squad' it has no idea how to place a song
in a scene.The songs it chooses are good on their own but, the scenes they are
used in makes me hate them. All but maybe once were they used
appropriately. It's sad that films have decided to just throw in pop
songs to try and get a bigger audience instead of making a score that
works in the film. It never helps the story move forward, they are all
just kind of there.That being said, nothing could have saved this story. As I said, it's
exactly like 'Wolf of Wall Street'. But it's not near as fun nor does
it have the interesting character study that 'Wall Street' has. It has
Jonah Hill and Miles Teller furiously trying to make the dialogue they
have sound organic. Yet, it's so poorly written that these Oscar worthy
actors come across with little chemistry and sound like morons while
doing it.There isn't much that redeems this film. It's mostly well shot and
these two performances aren't to bad. Other than that everything fails.
It's poorly written, horribly boring, offers no interesting characters,
and fails to deliver any comedic moments. It's one of those movies that
thinks it's so much better than it is. It wants to be great and
desperately tries to be but falls flat on its face.
