8
Beautiful actors seeking answers to profound questions

What if Shakespeare got it right when he wrote:There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, Than are dreamt of
in your philosophy. - Hamlet (1.5.167-8), Hamlet to HoratioActually, we know that Shakespeare did get it right. Science adds new
discoveries and corrects old theories constantly as it progresses.
What's this have to do with "I, Origins"? It's one of the main themes
of the movie: What if there's more to the universe than what we can
perceive with our senses. Ask any real scientist and you'll find out
that the concept is hardly new or controversial. We can't directly
perceive radio waves or x-rays yet we make use of them every day.
Nevertheless, this movie approaches the topic in a way that makes this
question, perhaps, easier to approach for non-scientists.Similarly, the movie tackles the theme of science versus religion. This
theme is played up a lot in contemporary press coverage and "I,
Origins" tackles this question intelligently as well. Again, ask a
scientist about science and religion and you will likely find out that
there isn't really a conflict between the two. Science looks into how
the universe works. Religion is concerned with why? "How" and "why" are
two sides of the same coin.The movie also explores the long-existing notion that we are in some
way tied to certain individuals for all time. Soul mates, if you will.
Don't ask a scientist about that one.The main actors in "I, Origins" are young and beautiful. Even the lab
rat, played by Brit Marling, who starred in director Mike Cahill's
prior and debut film "Another Earth," cannot hide her exceptional
beauty behind glasses and sweats or a pregnancy suit. So if you enjoy
seeing beautiful people asking seemingly profound questions in
interesting settings, this is your movie.Like Cahill's "Another Earth," this movie probes profound questions
about the human existence. It's beautifully shot (though I think it
needs some more editing), well acted by attractive people, and in the
end will probably get you thinking. If that sounds like a mystical
experience and a good investment of two hours of your time, then this
film's something you should see.We saw this film as part of the Camera Cinema Club series in San Jose.
