1
Split is Sh*t. Absolute waste of 2 hours.

With time being our most precious commodity, I try to carefully select
the movies I do watch, as I don't have a ton of time to watch them. But
the hype around this movie, and of course the (mind boggling) 7.4 IMDb
rating tempted me enough to give it a chance. I sat down excited with
my favorite snacks - hoping to be in for what some called 'one of the
best horror movies this year so far'.Wow.... really? Horror? This is NOT horror. It's a suspense thriller /
drama at best. This movie couldn't even scare a 12 year old. And THIS
is supposed to be the "return of M Night Shyamalan"? What? I absolutely loved Signs, and The Sixth Sense is amazing too. But his
movies since have gone down hill. The Visit was very lackluster and
pretty disappointing too. But not as disappointing as this stinker. At
least with The Visit - there was no claims or hype saying this was his
'return to form' so I didn't expect a lot. But Split? This is more like
a terribly executed amateur film students idea of a "thriller". The first 20-30 minutes, the movie has your interest a little bit as
you wonder about the kinds of twists and surprises you are about to
treated to. Maybe the guy is a ghost? Maybe there are actually more
than one main protagonist? Maybe the girls are in an alternate reality?
Maybe there is an actual, physical, hairy (as they describe him)
monster that we will soon get to see? Oh man...that would be cool.. These are things I was eagerly thinking as I was watching, hoping I
would be right, and that if so - these plot twists could turn this how
I would have written if it I was behind it.But nope. As time goes on, you realize, there is NOTHING exciting
happening. Just some incredibly boring dialogues, a character study of
multiple personality disorder, some dumb girls trying to escape, and
several conversations between a shrink and her patient. *Yawn* The
ending? I was half asleep at that point but it was extremely
underwhelming and disappointing. So the 'beast' just looks like the
dude, just with some veins popping out, and he can climb walls? Wow,
amazing. Not.Save your time and do not listen to the positive reviewers. I think
they were paid by Universal Studios to bring up the overall score here.
