6
Spared For The Laughs

Ted 2 now focuses on the titular anthropomorphic teddy bear in, having
his own life of marriage and plans ahead of getting a non-biological
child. This leads to a strangely interesting conflict about gaining
civil rights to a teddy bear. And it's stranger that at some point the
movie does take it somewhat seriously, and eventually goes back to its
crass hijinks. It's nice, but nothing much compelling in the end,
because what obviously overshadows it is definitely the outrageous
laughs. But even the degree of laughs suffers the same problem; it's
full of energy at first then it awkwardly mutes its lighter tone for
its climax. Fans of the first may get the same pleasure that they seek,
but there is really nothing special to it, either.The first half really has the strongest amount of funny moments and
also brought some intrigue to the story's center. But the movie
apparently cannot decide what exact approach it is generally taking.
The outrageous comedy is still everywhere, but whenever it stops by
focusing on its themes, it really takes it seriously, like it actually
believes that it is saying something important. But the movie hardly
earns anything to deserve that attention. It's just shifting from its
outrageous nature to a sudden gravity back and forth. Even for a comedy
that is actually just fooling around, it stills displays a mind of
uncertainty. There is also some bits of attempting to replicate
Broadway; with dance numbers and a song. Can't tell if that's one of
the movie's way of tripping or the director just wants to show off that
he can do a musical. Either way, it rather feels nothing more than a
random filler. The movie is also a little too long, the movie hitting
the same major problem of the first film by setting up a climax that
it's supposed to drive tension. It never felt right for the film, even
worse, it's more like a rehash, reintroducing the same villain except
it takes place in a different location. It's rather awkward and tedious
than effective.The sentiment doesn't felt convincing enough for the movie's true
colors, but then it's all about the humor. And if the humor works, then
there is a worthy roar of laughter to get from this film. Predictably
raunchy, pot fueled and consists pop culture references; that will
certainly be enjoyed if you understand the language of a Seth
MacFarlane comedy. It's fun if it really tries to be fun. The
performances from its lead actors are still a joy to watch. MacFarlane
still manages to put energy to the talking teddy bear and Mark Wahlberg
is still committed to fool around as Ted's man child best friend.Ted 2 doesn't bring the same surprise of the first one, but if you're
in for more outrageous laughs from this profane talking teddy bear,
then it won't be a problem, as long as you're not expecting too much.
The film does try to bring on an important theme, but it's not as
effective or as strong as it wanted to be; it does make some
interesting arguments, just doesn't have any powerful or at least
earned conclusion to it; but hell, who would exactly take that
seriously, anyway? Well, no more than the movie itself. It should have
been shorter, the storyline should have been tighter, and the third act
should have tried harder than repeating its predecessor. Again, it can
be really funny, it just suffers handling its ideas better.
