5
Denzel and his rules, mentoring yet another rookie

-- www.Ramascreen.com --Here we go again with Denzel mentoring a rookie by sharing some of his
ground rules. SAFE HOUSE is very formulaic, it only makes you think
like it's smart and if it weren't for the intense, unforgiving
gunfights, one of the most exciting I've seen in cinema (Tombstone's
gunfight still takes top honor) SAFE HOUSE probably wouldn't have much
going to help me recommend it to you Training Day, Unstoppable, and now SAFE HOUSE, you'd pair up Denzel as
a seasoned, experienced character with a rookie or a newbie who
eventually steps up to the plate. Denzel is back as Mr. know it all,
Mr. one step ahead of you, and he'd proudly preach it too whether or
not you'd want to hear it. Ryan Reynolds plays the next Pine or the
next Hawke, and just like those other guys, Reynolds' character is
fully equipped with the knowledge and is highly skilled but now,
situation has shifted to where it forces him to put his own skills to
the test. The rookie is always motivated to prove himself worthy and
the unlikely mentor, who's used to working alone and has all kinds of
ethos, is always entertained by the idea of having a protégé. By the
way, why can't Swedish director Daniel Espinosa find his own tone, his
own style? Why does he have to make the film look as if it was helmed
by Denzel's go-to director, Tony Scott?! It even has that A-D-D feel to
it.I don't necessarily think David Guggenheim's script is all that clever,
it's not terrible, but it's nowhere near impressive. Don't get me
wrong, the concept is fantastic, a CIA house being breached and you
don't know who's responsible and who else may be on it, the line
between bad guys and good guys get blurred, those are necessary
elements for a pulse pounding thriller. But those of us hardcore fans
of thrillers, may it be political or whodunit crime, would easily
notice that all that Guggenheim did was put all the CIA smart
vocabularies and slang into Tobin Frost's lips (Denzel) and then have
the CIA repeats the same thing in their own little playroom and then
Guggenheim would throw a series of massive chaos in between. It doesn't
take a genius to figure out the bad guy either because you'd always go
with the one who seems to be the most supportive, the one who wants to
see the protagonists find safety, just so that they may get to them in
time and retrieve whatever it is that they withhold, so SAFE HOUSE is
exciting but it's hardly smart and it's certainly nothing new. -- www.Ramascreen.com --
