1
Brad Pitt, not just a Valium for humans anymore

The zombie outbreak starts with Brad Pitt with his family in stopped
traffic. There's a huge explosion with no explanation of why. Then,
either a huge horde of humans are running from a small amount of
zombies, or a huge horde of zombies are chasing a small amount of
humans. You can't tell who is who, because all you see is a mob of
people running in the same direction. Occasionally you see a zombie or
two leap after a human, so you can tell they're not all human. But
otherwise they could have been filming the bull runs in Spain (without
the bulls).The zombies are part of what ruins the movie. They run faster than
humans can, leap onto flying helicopters and can stack themselves 20
zombies high to climb walls. They can detect any terminal illness in
any human, no matter the disease. No explanation is given how someone
can go from ordinary human to super zombie in 12 seconds. Or why
zombies just bite humans and then run away. If it takes 12 seconds to
turn, then why don't they continue to attack for 12 seconds?Next, all the zombies are gone somehow and we see humans looting a
store. The zombies are attracted to sound, but somehow they can't hear
people pushing shopping carts on pavement. After some shopping, Brad
takes his family to an apartment building which seems to be void of
zombies. He convinces a family to let him and his family into their
apartment. After a beer, Brad tells the father that him & his family
should go with him. However, the father decides to stay. Bad decision.
When Brad Pitt tells you to do something, you do it. Within seconds of
Brad leaving, all of a sudden there's a hundred zombies outside the
door breaking in.Brad's on his way to the roof for a helicopter rescue while being
chased by zombies. All of a sudden the little boy from the family shows
up. No explanation of how he got by all the zombies, nor an explanation
of why the zombies stopped coming to allow Brad to save the boy. All we
know is when Brad Pitt is around, zombies either stop coming, or become
very calm. Almost like they just took a Valium.Next they're off to South Korea. Nothing happens except Brad learns he
needs to go to Israel, and the North Koreans are fine because they
extracted the teeth of their entire country. (Can't infect without
teeth) How that stops the 4 billion people already infected with teeth
is never explained. Brad gets to Israel to witness they built a wall
around the country and survived the zombie apocalypse. Not for long.
They're letting in people from everywhere. All you see is humans
entering the country through metal walkways. Who knows where the
walkways lead to or why the zombies can't get into them. Or can they?
There's a scene later in the movie where a zombie picks up a human in
the supposedly safe walkway, and infects him. If that's all it took to
infect the walkway, then why weren't they infected a long time ago?Why didn't Israel get infected? Because they built a huge wall. Why did
every continent get infected at nearly the same time? Because as
explained in the movie, it was the airplanes. Big cities were affected
first and worst because of the international airports. Did Israel have
airports? Absolutely. They had a line of planes leaving every minute.
Did zombies infect the planes? They certainly infected the plane Brad
Pitt left Israel on. So why didn't Israel get infected by one of the
planes entering the country? Never explained.The reason why the zombies took over the country is dumb. After they
let in refugees, the refugees start singing and that noise attracts the
zombies. Forget the fact that they have helicopters constantly orbiting
the wall, or the never ending line of planes taking off from their
airports. It's the children singing that triggers the zombies to scale
the wall and conquer the country. In South Korea, army soldiers gave
advice to aim at the knees to slow them down, and then the heads to
kill. So obviously we're not dealing with invincible zombies. So how do
they manage to stack themselves 20+ zombies high, and then drop all the
way to the ground uninjured? No broken bones. But if you shoot their
knees they drop like flies.Then there's the amputation scene. Israel is being overrun by zombies
so badly, the girl running behind Brad gets bit. They kill the biting
zombie, and then conveniently, zombies stop coming so Brad can amputate
the hand of the girl, and bandage her up. I told you Brad Pitt has a
calming effect on zombies!!About the "terminal illness" theory. How did they not discover that the
entire cancer wing of a hospital would be unaffected by the zombie
virus. Or were the zombies simply avoiding Brad Pitt? I wish Brad Pitt
infected himself with a virus that made him invisible to me.
