8
A stunning film

While watching 'La Vie d'Adèle', I regularly thought about 'Entre les
Murs', the winner of the Palme d'Or in Cannes five years ago. Not only
because in both films many scenes take place in classrooms, but also
because they both have an ultra-authentic feeling. Many of the scenes in this film look so real that it's almost hard to
believe they are acted at all. Take for instance one scene in the
beginning of the film. Five schoolgirls are chatting about a boy who is
standing a few meters away, and who is clearly interested in one of the
girls. The conversation, and the way the girls behave is so natural,
it's almost impossible to script this. And in fact, many scenes are
hardly scripted. Much is improvisation, and the actors were encouraged
to do whatever they felt like doing, whatever came natural to them.
Director Kechiche apparently shot for several months and came up with
800 hours of footage. The result is stunning. This is a movie that is not only reminiscent of
'Entre les Murs', but also of the films made by the Belgian brothers
Dardenne. These are films showing the real lives of real people,
without make-up, without scripted lines and without any cinematographic
glamour. There are so many scenes that make you feel like you're
peeping into other people's lives. Take for example the scene of Adèle
eating spaghetti with her parents, while watching television. Hardly a
word is said, but this little scene tells more about Adèle's life than
fifty lines of dialogue. The best thing about the movie, apart from the directing, is actress
Adèle Exarchopoulos. Her performance is an extraordinary
accomplishment. She shows every possible emotion: indifference,
astonishment, grief, anger, joy, sadness, and yes, sexual excitement,
without once giving the impression that the emotion is not real, that
she is just acting. In Cannes, both she and Léa Seydoux were awarded
the Palme d'Or, but is is Exarchopoulos who steals the show. The film is a classic coming-of-age drama. Adèle is a high school girl
who falls in love with art student Emma. They have a passionate
relationship, but it is doomed because working class girl Adèle doesn't
fit in with Emma's snobby friends. The two girls really don't have very
much in common. Adèle gets a job as a nursery teacher and is passionate
about her work, but this doesn't resonate with Emma who thinks she
should develop a more creative passion, like writing. The best scene
about the difference between the two girls (again without words) is
when Adèle is washing the dishes after a party, while Emma is in bed
reading a book about the painter Egon Schiele. The fact that the lovers are both female is in fact irrelevant for the
film. Their being lesbian is hardly an issue. Much has been said about
how 'lesbian' the movie really is. The answer is: it is not. Some
viewers have complained that the sex scenes are unrealistic and shown
from a male perspective. This might be true, and it is completely
understandable, given that this film is not meant as a statement about
lesbianism. In fact, one of the sex scenes shows Adèle with a boy, and
is filmed in much the same way. There is in fact a lot of very explicit
sex in the film. This serves the story, but the length of the scenes
and the way they are filmed suggest that director Kechiche secretly
hoped for a bit of controversy. The film is almost three hours long, but doesn't feel that way at all.
Many scenes are long, but they are such a joy to watch you almost
regret that they are not even longer. Many reviewers and watchers have
said that, after watching the movie, they feel that they really have
got to know Adèle and the way she feels. I can only agree.
