3
All Bark and no Bite

By the year 2022, America has become so nihilistic that it deems
necessary one night of the year where people can commit any crime
legally, in order to better benefit the economy.This provides the framework for "The Purge" a horror/thriller/sci-
fi/social statement/dystopian movie that is ultimately too unsure of
itself. The film tries to juggle themes of unemployment, the
1percenters, out of control youths and the American dream while also
juggling the standard conventions of a paint-by-numbers horror in the
house movie. All this added baggage turns whatever the film makers were
trying to say into incomprehensible background noise, when all they can
manage to convey is: "Boo Jumpscare!", "Look at our creepy villains!"
and "I bet no-one who sees this will be old enough to remember Straw
Dogs!".Ethan Hawke (who looks really haggard here) plays the father of a
family of four, Lena Heady plays the miscast wife and two kids no-one
will ever see again after this movie play the kids. I'm not just saying
these things to be cruel. I promise you wont ever see Ethan Hawke
half-ass it through a movie like you will here, I guess after Training
Day he just gave up trying to be good in movies. Lena Heady is a
fantastic actress, but she is in totally the wrong role here. Heady
dominates the screen playing icy, disdainful strong women roles (Dredd,
GoT) but is stuck playing the most bland generic motherly figure
possible to write, she takes a mundane role and adds nothing to it. The
children were horrible, i don't need to go into them any more. Rhys
Wakefield steals the show as the polite leading member of a gang of
murderers, a good example of what a creepy face and smile combo can
bring.But what really sinks The Purge is the fact that no character in the
movie acts like a real person does, it's all contrived to get the movie
going. Characters switch motivations in the blink of an eye, only
seeing the danger of the situation when the script suits it. After
being told of their impending death unless they surrender a homeless
man seeking refuge in their home, the family does almost nothing to
keep themselves safe, they obviously don't care enough about their
family to save their lives.The dialogue had me rolling on the floor though, "surrender the
homeless pig" and "let us purge their souls for America" are likely to
have audiences howling.A common scenario in this movie, was to have one of the main characters
held at gun point or some other situation of imminent death, only to be
saved by some other character off camera. This was fine the first time
or second, but after about the eighth it was becoming predictable and
laughable.Plus this movie is short, it barely scrapes 80 minutes. I get the
impression they filmed this movie in a week inside some rich white
persons home and then slapped the movie together without really having
much footage to edit.The Purge is a bad movie, plain and simple. It's themes aren't though
out, the actors aren't trying, the characters behave irrationally, the
intense moments are hysterical, the editing is choppy and clumsy, the
scenario is unbelievable and poorly staged and its not even long enough
to really get mad over because it ends so soon.It may have had a pretty cool idea for a premise, but the execution
sank this sucker. I expected better from Platinum Dunes.
