10
Im honestly baffled by all of the bad reviews

(IDK if there are actually spoilers, but I want to be safe, lol) I am
constantly seeing oh its not original, it's not scary, it's not this,
it's not that. I saw evil dead when I was about 11, and have loved the
trilogy in whole for as long as I can remember. These movies hold a
special place in my heart. Hearing of the remake, I was terribly
skeptical like everyone else was, but the movie pretty much lived up to
everything I wanted to see in this movie, a REMAKE. I feel somehow just
because Bruce wasn't in it, people already start to lose interest, I
don't know why. I realize this is my opinion, but as someone who's a
fanboy, or whatever its called, of this movie, I really want to know
what people were wanting out of this movie, sure some stuff that I
wanted to see weren't in it, A newer, incredibly grotesque Henrietta,
with the original "someones in my fruit cellar", or a dancing headless
corpse would have topped it off for me!! The acting I thought was
pretty good, The story I felt went along with the originals, with a few
tweaks here and there, but nothing to really change the flow of the
movie, But why I gave this movie a perfect rating is the constant nods
to the originals, even including original sound bytes from evil dead 2,
and probably one or two others that I cannot think of. What also made
this movie great for me is that while it was missing Gimme Some Sugar
Baby Ash (You have to respect the mans reason for not being in this
movie, even though I like to think he could've done it, keeping my
fingers crossed for Army of Darkness 2) I found myself seeing Ash in
all of the characters, besides Olivia, but maybe I didn't pick up on
the nods she had to Ash if there were any. However, If I could complain
about anything with the movie, it ended up making sense to me in the
end (*Hint* Cleansing, Electric Shock) However I think of Evil Dead 2,
Where Ash is a Deadite, then he is fine. It may not run along the same
lines exactly, but I like to think that's what they thought when
writing the movie. All in all, we must realize that the stage set for
the production was on a whole other level, the original first evil dead
was quite a low budget movie made in the early 80's, Evil Dead 2 seemed
like it had a better budget to work with, I am guessing they had an
even better budget for this movie than any of the others. It seems they
at least tried to capture the feeling of the originals by sticking with
on screen effects, rather than CGI. If you want to go see a movie that is a creepy, gory, absolute blast of
a time to see. I am going to go see it again because I did not stick
around for after the credits. They knew us screwheads wanted this, and
they delivered, with what I believe is a movie that has used the most
fake blood to date, and to that, I say Groovy!
