1
The worst Spider-Man yet...

After the last film, I was hard pressed to think that this one could be
worse. Well, sure enough it is.Warning, spoilers ahead.The reasons that this film isn't good are simple: Most of the action
scenes, take place at night- and are visually uninteresting as the CGI
and night sky don't make good bedfellows. There is one action scene at
day in which you can actually see what's going on, and its in a high
school that clearly isn't anywhere within a three mile radius of New
York.We all understand how they shoot interiors in Culver City.. But the
last spiderman films seamlessly blended shoots from Chicago, New York,
Los Angeles without the audience ever noticing. This film does not, in
fact the only attempt to make the high school look like New York is a
lame sign.This film's story has been done before, you've seen it before and with
the exception of the Osbournes and the color of the love interests
hair, there is not much new to this story.Dennis Leary is great, as is Martin Sheen but they're both killed off.
Martin Sheen is killed off in the beginning of this boring movie,
making it more painful as he was one of the only reliefs.Aunt May is written so poorly, that she has nothing to do in this
movie. She sits at home and watches TV and screams at Peter when she
sees him. Not exactly a challenging role for the great Sally Field.There was little care that went into the quality of this film, and the
attempts at making it dark are just flat out Corny such as the cannibal
rat, which is pure comedy and comes out of nowhere to 'shock' the
audience.There seems to be no conflict between Peter and his girlfriend at the
end of the story, which one would logically want to assume that she
holds out some contempt for spiderman as Harry did in the original
spiderman after Spiderman played a hand in his death. Spiderman did
play a hand in the Captain's death, yet the daughter doesn't seem to
mind that Peter was there when he was murdered.This film had great visual effects, obscured by the night time setting
and slow down camera techniques. Other than that, it's a music video
and it pulls NO surprises. You have already seen this film if you've
seen the extended trailer, or the 2002 Green Goblin movie.The chemistry between the two leads is lame, with Andrew Garfield who
is wonderful in other films and stage productions giving a few moments
of over-acting that take away Peter's humanity and spell the word HAM
with it. Also, they appear to be improvising in some of their scenes,
the result is two young, MEGA-RICH people trying to imagine what blue-
collared kids from Queen's social customs would be like, and let me
tell you they FAIL in a telling and Inauthentic way.This movie does not have you believe in the setting or characters at
all. It is just ridiculous.
