9
Apes On Horses

The Planet of the Apes franchise has always fascinated me but I hadn't
been interested until seeing Rise of the Planet of the Apes a few years
back. The emotional depth that that film brought to the table was
unparalleled in terms of big blockbusters. I was attached to Caesar and
several of the other apes. That movie surprised everyone so it isn't
much of a surprise that the sequel 'Dawn' looked even better as they
hired Matt Reeves as the replacement director. The special effects are
some of the best I have ever seen and the acting was surprisingly
outstanding. The trailers looked incredible so my excitement was about
as high as it could possibly be for an apes movie. And the film doesn't
disappoint.The film takes place at least 8 years after 'Rise' and the time jump is
much to their benefit. It allowed Caesar to step into his role as
leader of all the apes and link between the apes and humans. Speaking
of the effects, some of the facial expression the apes gave were just
devastating. And for me to say that I was on the verge of tears in a
movie where apes can talk should sound absurd but its the truth.
Caesar's family is present throughout and his eldest son is the one
that hit home. When you see him being put into war unwillingly after
life changing events you just cant but help feeling terrible for him.
Koba, the corrupt ape who has always believed humans are more dangerous
than Caesar thinks is also a conflicting character. There is a scene
between him and Caesar near the first act that made me feel sympathy
for him and whatever other apes were also tortured. Dreyfuss, played by
Gary Oldman also stood out for the short periods that he appears. Much
like Koba, he is a man who lost so much that he has lost faith in the
world and wants nothing to do with the other species. It's these two
characters who keep the conflict rising as peace is on the downfall and
war is on the brink. The only real weak part of the film is that the
trailers show a lot of the important scenes and I'm a guy who watches
trailers everyday. I knew a little bit too much.To say that Caesar is one of the greatest leaders in film history is
not an overstatement. When he is on screen you cant help but be
mesmerized by the immense strength and gravitas that comes along with
the character. Now it is time for the academy to honor the greatness
that this film brings to all aspects of filmmaking. I wouldn't go as
far as saying Serkis deserves a best actor nod, but I wouldn't disagree
if they gave it to him. The performance is one for the ages.The third act is brilliant in every way a film should be. It was
unexpected, visually dazzling, and emotionally fulfilling. It keeps you
on the edge of your seat from the get go. It's one of the best movies
of the summer and definitely made it's mark in motion capture history.+Caesar's unparalleled leadership +Special effects and motion capture are just insanely good +Apes facial expressions can be emotionally devastating +Koba & Dreyfuss similarly troubled-I knew a bit too much from trailers 9.2/10SECOND VIEWING 9.6/10
