8
A great new entry into superpower mythos films

Chronicle is one of those films that kind of snuck up on everyone and
may very well have slid under the radar if not for a somewhat dead
weekend in February and good word of mouth. And it's rightfully earned.
After last weeks fantastic The Grey, the new year continues to produce
good film with one of the most interesting takes on the comic book film
in a long time.Now, you might be tempted to blow this off as another low budget, shaky
cam movie ala Paranormal Activity, but you'd be wrong. Firstly, this is
a film that establishes it's lead "camera men" as experienced with a
camera, so shaky cam is mostly gone from the film. We also have some
other rather interesting excuses for better than average faux-doc
filming, namely the main character's ability to levitate his camera
around to get multiple angles. Suffice to say, the camera work is
mostly good and legitimized so it never feels like it's too good. So,
if you fear that this is just another poorly made hand-held excursion,
fear not. This is a very well made hand-held excursion.The story itself is nothing terribly new or original. A group of teens
inexplicably get super powers from some weird, glowy crystals and
that's about it. But where most stories about super powered people
might find them fighting evil or exploring human nature, Chronicle
takes it's time to show a more realistic approach. Our characters play
pranks, gain popularity, and try to just have fun. Also realistic are
how the powers come out in other forms, manifesting the inner turmoil
of one troubled teen who becomes too powerful for his own good.
Although the story may not be wholly original, the script is pretty
good and the films take on both the hand-held film sub genre and the
super powered sub genre is good. This is a more grounded look at what
might happen should we find ourselves with power we can't understand.
We don't get noble causes or some epic quest to save the world, we
simply get teens who are being teens, albeit with telekinetic
abilities. I read this film compared to Carrie, and it's somewhat
accurate, only this is Carrie x5.It helps that the leads do a great job in their respective roles. They
seem naturals as the teens, and DeHann in particular is great as the
troubled Andrew. We can see what's to come, but when his turn finally
comes, most noticeably in a scene involving a spider, it's a
frightening wake up call to the true nature of the forces at work here.
There is some reality in this film, and it's frightening to think what
some might do with that kind of power if given it. Even with that last
bit of darkness at the end of the film, it's fun, and shown in a very
intimate way. Being so up close and personal with the action is
exhilarating and there are moments when the film even feels like a ride
for a time. There are several good scenes displaying the use of the
teens power, but the final 15 minutes are some of the most exciting,
super powered moments of any film of it's kind. The fact that it feels
more realistic than, say, something like Iron Man makes it feel that
much more exciting. It's like watching a high school fight, but pushed
to the 10th degree.Suffice to say, Chronicle was a pleasant surprise. It's the kind of
film you hope to walk into. As a fan of comic book films, it was
especially pleasing as it really shakes the genre and tries,
successfully I might add, to do something very different. It could have
been a complete disaster with typical hand-held filming and a typical
story. But the smart and creative take on the genre makes this another
in the great beginning of 2012.
