5
Too Much Too Bear

(Rating: ☆☆ out of 4) This film is not recommended.In brief: Ted has its share of laughs, but only if you like off-color
and offensive humor.GRADE: C+Ted, that cute but crude potty-mouthed teddy bear is back and so is
writer /director Seth MacFarlane, offering more heaping helpings of
sophomoric jokes and political incorrect humor. Again Mr. MacFarlane
seems more interested in offending the masses and mocking any minority
groups with an onslaught of racial and homophobic references than
setting up a coherent story with genuine laughs, but that is is
trademark formula which seems to work for him (excluding his last film,
A Million Ways to Die in the West which died a million ways with his
fan base). I'd say he walks a fine line, but that's quite a broad
stroke he is traveling in Ted 2.It is now three years since our last meeting. Ted has married a
dim-witted bimbo and his human buddy has not had much luck in the
dating game. But both have enough time to drink beer and smoke pot to
occupy their days, much as before. Only now, a problem arises with
Ted's marriage being legal. So it's off to court we go as they engage a
young pretty attorney who takes their case.The film starts off very promising with its opening credits, a
wonderful send-up to the old Busby Berkeley musicals, but the rest of
the film never hits this stride. After that, it's non- stop sex and
drug jokes that purport the smutty and bawdy locker-room mentality
MacFarlane has build his career on. This sequel is more of the same as
before, with no risk, only risqué. Subtlety is not in his reach, nor is
stinging satire. He hides behind shock humor rather than allow his
jokes to flow with the narrative.More often than not, this film has a nice directorial touch and some
good comic timing. But more not than often do his skills as a
screenwriter hit their intended marks. Much of the humor is overdone
and lacks any finesse, as he aims to ridicule easy targets: Comic Con
losers, Improv performers, bong and penis jokes are plentiful. Cameos
by Tom Brady Sam J. Jones, and Liam Neeson fall flat. One can see that
MacFarlane is going for deeper themes this time around with civil
rights, marriage equality, and discrimination as the underlying issue.
But he is still unable to delve into any measurable depth as he
continuously sacrifices his meandering plot for a nasty zinger or
gross-out gags. The CGI of Ted and the voice-over work by MacFarlane again are the
film's saving grace. The duality of cute vs. vulgar works for the most
part. As for its cast, most perform adequately, some stronger than
others, with many loyal friends and performers again availing their
services to his films. Mark Wahlberg handles most of the duties and he
manages to use his personable assets reasonably well to come away
unblemished, as does Jessica Barth as Ted's trashy wife. Amanda
Siegfried gives one of her better performances and is developing some
comic chops. Morgan Freeman, John Slattery, Patrick Warburton, Michael
Dorn, and Giovanni Ribisi are wasted. For me, some of the gags worked, others did not. It was hit-and-miss
all the way. Depending on one's own comfort level of off-color
material, Ted 2 could be highly distasteful or very funny. MacFarlane
follows the same lewd formula in this sequel. It's his comfort zone to
make others feel uncomfortable. His target audience knows his brand of
politically incorrect humor and...humor, as we all know, is in the gut
of the beholder.Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.comANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com
