1
Pretty bad...

This is one of the worst movies of the entire season! The storyline was
not well-thought out. Considering they shelved the project multiple
times and only picked it up again after the success of Tangled, they
should have shelved it again until they further thought out the
storyline! Frozen's singers don't cut it. I don't mind pop singers like
in Tangled, Princess Frog and Brave, but these ones were just bad! You
literally struggle to hear them over the instruments that are playing
during the songs they sing. During some songs, it sounds as if the
singers sometimes practically give up on singing altogether and just
shout. There's a duet of the sisters in particular that I'm referring
to (For The First Time in Forever (Reprise)). The animation and audio
quality did not match the songs. This is most evident in the song Let
It Go. The words don't match the lip movement, and the audio sounds out
of place.*****WARNING!!! SPOILERS!!!******** Due to Elsa's inability to properly
harness her powers, she nearly kills her little sister. The king and
queen take both sisters to some wise trolls who heal the little girl
and then warn the parents that the powers will grow. They tell them
that if she doesn't learn to control them, there will be grave
consequences. The trolls then explain that fear will be her enemy. It
can hinder her ability to cope with these powers. These wise and caring
parents come to the brilliant conclusion that it's a good idea to
completely seclude the princess from everyone. Of course it never
occurred to them that this might cause her to be more fearful than
ever.. They even seal off the castle. Then they leave the two fearful,
confused children on their own (with no precautionary measures in place
to help the cursed princess should they perish) while they go on a
little cruise and drown. This absurdity continues with Elsa (the ice
queen) accidentally revealing her powers in front of a foreign
dignitary from a small kingdom who then orders her soldiers to arrest
their own queen. I mean, do I really need to explain how stupid that
is? The young princess then searches for her fleeing sister and leaves
the kingdom in the charge of a young prince she has a crush on rather
than a trusted aid or prime minster or any other sort of government
official. After a typical Disney "love conquers all" moment, the curse
of eternal winter (the winter was inexplicably determined to be eternal
after about one night) is lifted by the ice queen who before was unable
to remove it. How? They don't really explain. They merely have her
exclaim, "Of course! Love!" That makes no sense of course because she
always loved her kingdom and her sister. If love is the cure then it
would have never happened in the first place. Whatever.Now my biggest complaint. The way women (and the ice queen in
particular) were portrayed. There were only four women that had any
prominence throughout the movie. Number one: the ice queen's mother.
Remember those really stupid parents I talked about earlier? She was
one of them. And it was the father who did the talking, who spent the
intimate moments with both the children, etc. She might as well not
have been there. There's the troll mother who embarrasses her son and
generally acts like a hare-brain. Then there are the two sisters Anna
the princess and Elsa the ice queen. Anna is a ditz who falls in love
with- and determines to marry- a guy she's only known for a few hours.
Elsa is a strong girl who's actually highly emotional and perpetually
frightened like a mouse. But don't worry. She later turns against the
way she was raised and determines to stop being a good girl. She then
proceeds to walk down the hall like a Victoria's Secret model with a
large slit in her dress deliberately placed to show as much leg as
possible. Nearly all other women shown are intentionally made to be fat
and unattractive. So what can we gather from this? Women are mostly
undesirable, and those that are desirable are only desirable for their
bodies or raising your kids. Do you remember Beauty and the Beast? I
remember Belle for being brilliant, beautiful, and brave. But hey, Anna
and Elsa are both beautiful. One out of three ain't bad, eh? *face
palm*The trolls were predictable and uninspired. The way the characters
talked, in this, like, totally, like modern teen, like way, was like,
yeanot cool.All in all, 1/10 stars. They should have shelved it until they had
worked out their story more instead of releasing it prematurely to make
a quick buck!
