7
I'm unsure about Kick-Ass 2.

Uhh. I'm unsure. It's not a bad film but it isn't the best. I don't
hate it, but I don't love it. I mean, the acting is pretty good as is
some of the action but it just lacks the polish that the original film
did. When Kick-Ass came out in 2010, it was amazing! The acting was amazing,
Matthew Vaughn's directing was amazing (Vaughn only produced the second
film) and the entire film was hilarious! The visuals were stunning, as
was the action and it was Nicholas Cage's best role in years! The only
thing I don't like about the original Kick-Ass is the use of CGI blood
instead of squibs. It just doesn't look right. In all fairness, CGI
blood never looks right! What the filmmakers did was they recorded
loads of squibs on model people and edited them into the film. That is
not how to do it! Kick-Ass had an all star cast of classic actors like Mark Strong and
Nicholas Cage and Jason Flemyng to up and coming stars like
Aaron-Taylor Johnson and Christopher Mintz Plasse and Chloe Grace
Moretz who all shine in a huge way.Kick-Ass 2 doesn't really have any of that! They tried to go all dark
and grim on a series based on comedic everything! The action was the
comedic, the dialogue was comedic, the entire plot was comedic!
However, Kick-Ass 2 does show the actual consequences of real life
violence and how bad things can actually get. The best thing about the entire film is Christopher Mintz Plasse
stealing the show as Chris D'Amico/The Motherf*cker. He is the best
thing about the entire film! All of his scenes are hilarious or dark
and brooding! The darkest scene in the film is also one of the funniest
when The Super Toxic Evil Mega C*nts invade Night Bit*hes house and MF
tries to rape her and says "time to see what evil dick feels like."
Unfortunately for him, he can't get "in the mood." This happens while
Mother Russia kills the s*it out of 10 police officers in spectacular
fashion. With a homemade bomb, to a lawn mower, to a car door she just
finds new way to kill people! She looks like she could kill you with
her little finger in a half a second! B*tch is crazy!This film started off great. Hit Girl is training Dave to be a "true
superhero" whilst she tries to hide the fact that she is still Hit Girl
from her legal guardian, Marcus and Chris accidentally kills his mum
and then becomes the Mother F*cker and becomes the first real super
villain who's super power is that he is really f*cking rich. Anyway,
I'm not gonna go on anymore because I could go on for ages. I rate
Kick-Ass 2 a 6.7/10.
