4
When more is less.

How was it possible to make such an compelling and inspiring life story
into such a boring movie despite sharks and torture? Go figure.'Lifeboat' with Tallulah Bankhead was filmed almost entirely in a
lifeboat and was much more interesting than the life raft scenes in
this movie which felt like twice the length of the other movie.Bridge on the River Kwai took place almost entirely in a POW camp and
same comparison I made above could apply with this tedious hour or more
of torture and abuse that was also boring.And how did the lead character not have a full beard after 47 days at
sea. His haircut looked the same throughout his adult scenes except for
being messy at times. Did his hair stop growing? The movie seemed flat
and 2 dimensional. There were only 2 moments that evoked any spark of
emotion or interest in me- when he was in church as a young boy and got
slapped upside the head for not paying attention and the epilogue at
the very end showing the real Louie running in the Olympics at age 80
but that scene was real footage and not part of Jolie's overdone,
overwrought and, yet, uninspiring and yawn inducing vanity project.I don't know if it was the acting which was flat or the camera not
capturing any good acting. Even closeups of Louie's face in
excruciating pain or intense emotion stayed right there on the screen
and didn't reach the audience. I actually heard laughter during some
intense scenes. Huh? I've seen more moving teevee commercials than most
of this movie was.But, Jolie isn't the only one. Many current directors work so hard at
'realism' that it is distracting. The old time directors knew how to
create magic on the silver screen without having to put every
excruciating detail on film. It's like they want to put a clinical
pelvic exam on a video for gynecologists instead of a truly romantic
scene with fully clothed actors when romance is the intention.Bette Davis was scarier as Baby Jane Hudson than the Japanese head of
the POW camp.I just don't understand how Jolie could get it so wrong. Didn't she
learn anything from Eastwood's 'Changeling' that left me not caring
about anyone in that movie, especially Jolie herself? Even the very
short scene of Louie's reunion with his family was so so contrasted to
the amount of time spent on the life raft and POW scenes.It just didn't work and I hate being so critical of a movie based on
such a remarkable and extraordinary long life. But, the movie didn't do
Louie justice and that's as painful as watching the movie was.
