2
So, you're... Ninja Mutant Turtle Teenagers?

After years of trying to bring this franchise back to the big screen,
Michael Bay and his company, Platinum Dunes was able to do it. Sadly,
the effort was just as sad most of the recent Michael Bay films.
Without Bay behind the camera on this project, we are left with an even
worse story(if that is possible), and just awful action. This is my
review of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.The film was written by Josh Appelbaum, André Nemec, and Evan
Daugherty. Appkebaum and Nemec recently worked on the smash hit from
2011, Mission Impossible: Ghost Protocol. While Daugherty is more
popularly known for witting the recent film, Divergent. With the talent
level behind this film, I'm surprised at how downright awful the story
was written. It is true that a director can change things around but,
on this movie I know of nothing like that happening, so the blame goes
to this writing crew. The story is very quick, and rushes downright
absurd backstories, only to force us sub-par action scenes for most of
the movie. So, basically this is your average Michael Bay film, only
this time Bay is only the Producer. Having let the movie sit in for a
bit, I honestly see no good in this story at all. As I said it is
rushed very quickly, to push the Bay style of a film. Not sure who to
blame for sure, these writers are better than this, and the effort on
this film was very poor.The film was directed by Jonathan Liebesman. Liebesman recently
directed Wrath of the Titans(not an awful film at all in my opinion).
His effort in this film was very poor. The action scenes seemed very
forced, and look like garbage. The CGI was some of the worst I've seen
in a big blockbuster like this. The acting from Meagan Fox, is as you
would expect, garbage. This is nothing new and should be expected by
now. Even the great William Fichtner(Eric Sacks) feels wasted in this
film. That is a shame since Fichtner is one of the best actors today.
Voice over work wasn't bad but, having Johnny Knoxville voice Leonardo
was an awful casting decision. He literally adds an element of awful
that I didn't seem coming. From the first time we hear him, you just
want to punch the screen. It doesn't get any better. So, Liebesman gets
a big fat failing grade for this film.Brian Tyler composed the score for this film, and also scored the film,
Into the Storm, which will be released on the same day as this film
oddly enough. Just as his effort was underwhelming in that film, I also
thought it was mostly underwhelming in this film. There are a few
action scenes where his talent is used nicely but, overall it is
nothing special.Overall, this film is simply awful, and a giant waste of time. Sure the
die-hard fans will rush out to see this movie but, a nickles worth of
free advice, it will ruin your hopes. Children will likely want to see
this movie as well but, be warned parents, there is a good bit of heavy
action. For the rest who were on the fence to being with, if you really
want to see this film, just wait until it is on home video. This is a
rental at best, and even then it is a waste of perfectly good money.I went to a RealD 3D showing and will have some comments on that as
well. The 3D scenes are pretty bad. Nothing that keeps you from paying
attention during the film though. It adds very little depth and even
less in items of popping out at the screen. So, if you truly do go out
and see this film, then bypassing the 3D is the best option. Save that
extra money.2/10
