7
Scary View of Religious Fanaticism, Ignorance and Madness

In the Seventeenth Century, in New England, the farmer William (Ralph
Ineson) and his family are banished from the Puritan plantation
controlled by the church due to differences in religion principles.
William leaves the spot with his wife Katherine (Kate Dickie); his
teenage daughter Thomasin (Anya Taylor-Joy); his son Caleb (Harvey
Scrimshaw) and the wins Mercy (Ellie Grainger) and Jonas (Lucas Dawson)
and settles at the edge of a forest. They build a small house and a
barn and meanwhile Katherine delivers the baby Samuel. One day,
Thomasin is playing with Samuel near the forest and the baby
mysteriously vanishes. The family unsuccessfully seeks Sam out and
Katherine becomes insane, praying all the time and mistreating and
blaming her daughter for everything wrong in their lives. However, Sam
was abducted and slaughtered by a witch that lives in the woods that
used his blood to paint her body. William goes to the forest to hunt
since the crop has failed and he confides to his son that he sold
Katherine's silver goblet o buy supplies. However he is a bad hunter
and misses his target. In the farm, the twins tell Thomasin that they
speak to the goat Black Phillip. While having dinner, Katherine accuses
Thomasin of losing her cup and William does not tell the truth. During
the night, Thomasin and the children overhear her mother telling
William to deliver Thomasin to work for another family. Early in the
morning, Caleb, Thomasin, their dog and the family horse go to hunt in
the woods. However Thomasin falls from the horse and faints, Caleb
becomes lost in the woods and stumbles upon his dead dog first and upon
a seductive woman later. William finds Thomasin and Katherine confronts
her about Caleb's fate. When the boy returns naked and with fever, the
twins accuse Thomasnin of witchcraft and she discloses that they speak
to the goat, in the beginning of the tragic end of their family. "The Witch: A New-England Folktale" is an
American/British/Canadian/Brazilian production by Robert Eggers that
shows a scary view of religious fanaticism, ignorance and madness in
the Seventeenth Century, in New England. The horror is psychological
and explores the primal fear of a family oriented by orthodox religious
principles and their fear of God. There are creepy moments most of them
without gore. The direction is tight and the unknown cast has great
performance. The cinematography is also impressive and depressive. My
vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "A Bruxa" ("The Witch")
