8
A Nice Mixture Of Baby Driver And Locke

Wheelman is Baby Driver meets Locke. As far as films that take place in
one location throughout the entire duration go, this is one of the best
I've seen in a while. I can see why films like this may bore some
people into losing interest early on, but this particular film does a
great job of keeping you engaged, using various filmmaking techniques.
Netflix hasn't put out the greatest content in terms of original films,
but I feel like they've been righting that wrong lately. Wheelman is a
very enjoyable thriller that is short, to the point, and will come
highly recommended by myself, and here's why.Knowing that this film takes place in our lead character's car
throughout the entire duration can be a daunting thought, but know this
as well; It's only 82 minutes long and it flies by. In an unnamed role,
Frank Grillo plays a driver who has been set-up duration a heist.
Leaving his passengers in the dust, he must keep his family safe, come
up with a solution, and try to get out free, all while remaining in his
car and using phone calls to whomever each issue may concern. This
aspect alone is what made this film such an intense ride, at least for
me. When a film chooses to set itself in one location, that could honestly
make or break your film if the script doesn't have enough going on, but
this movie is able to hold your attention, due to its quick pace and
need to continuously inject plot twists into the mix of everything.
With the addition of a terrific and devoted performance by Frank
Grillo, this film soars above movies like Devil or even Phone Booth.
For the premise at hand, always needing to keep moving, there really
isn't a single down moment for you to catch your breath, but that's
okay because the runtime is so short. As aforementioned, the driver constantly needs to be on the run
throughout this entire film, and I feel as though director Jeremy Rush
has done a wonderful job in keeping you on the edge of your seat and
displaying cool action sequences every ten to twenty minutes. This is a
rare movie that manages to give you an emotional backstory with his
family while juggling chase sequences during that same scene and
managing to actually make you feel engaged and moved at the same time.
That's a very hard thing to do, so I have nothing but praise in terms
of its pacing.If you're looking for a great film about a getaway driver, I'd
recommend this year's Baby Driver, and if you're looking for an
emotional roller coaster that takes place in one car, I'd recommend
Locke, and even though I would recommend those over Wheelman any day,
I'd have to say that it's also a nice mix of the two and has a far
shorter run time, making for a very solid, breezy viewing experience.
?In the end, this is a very well-done film that delivers in terms of
action and satisfaction, and even though it continuously borrows
elements from other films, it's still a blast throughout the majority
of it. Although familiar, Wheelman comes recommended in my books.
