1
QT8 Eats It all the way -- MMM, Mindless Mental Masturbation

Subject: Quarantuno No. 8 "The Hateful Eight"' -- 70mm Analog, RT,
Endless.Blurb: << In the dead of a Wyoming winter a bounty hunter and his
prisoner find shelter in a cabin currently inhabited by a collection if
nefarious characters>> Tedious Bloody Toro Droppings with nice Winter
Scenery.This was my first film of 2016, viewed on January 14th in Budapest at
the Művész Art Cinema with Hungarian subtitles. It opens with a big
yellow caption announcing that this is Quentin's EIGHTH film --
Presented with their Customary enormous Bad Taste by the Weinstein
Brothers. (Remind me never to waste any money on another Weinstein
Production again). We then get some magnificent snow scenery in wintry
Wyoming and a stagecoach pulled by six horses in XLS slowly hoves into
view. Aboard we have a paranoid bounty hunter bringing his captive, the
notorious bandit woman Domergue (pronounced as "Dough-murr-gee"- - an
uglified Jennifer Jason Leigh) to a town called Red Rock, to get her
hanged and collect on the bounty. A big black n-word hitchhiker turns out to be Samuel L. Jackson,
(Motormouth hero of Pulp Fiction) an ex-major in the Union Army, and
extremely baddass. Jennifer has no scruples about referring to major
Jackson as "the n***ger" and the "n-word is then used so profusely
throughout the rest of the film that it becomes almost a term of
endearment. Sam doesn't seem to mind at all as he will eventually get
to blast this collection of sickening white trash away, one after
another with great gusto and sloshy blood letting. These people take refuge from a blizzard in a log house way station
where we encounter a numb elderly Bruce Dern (ex Union general) plunked
in an armchair nearly motionless, like a refugee from Alexander Payne's
Nebraska. He wants to find his son but we will eventually find out that
Major Sam, caught him, tortured him and finally made him suck his big
black shlong on his knees, naked in the snow, before blowing him away
with a shot to the head. The story in the cabin (also before and after)
plays out in six labeled chapters filled with Reservoir Dogs type
taunting, menace, and Mayhem and endless boring dialogue, much of it
nearly undecipherable without Hungarian subtitles -- until we reach a
glorious conclusion with Samuel fatally shot in the gonads, but still
able to hang Jennifer in a perfect hangman's noose before crapping out
himself. Along the way some have been poisoned by poison in the coffee
pot, and one, in his death throes, vomits up blood onto Jennifer's
face, which decorates her visage in red for the rest of the film. How all this came about we dumbbells are explained in Chapter Six which
is a flashback to before chapter One to clarify how this mess all got
started. The only thing missing to call this exercise in excessive BS
"Pulp Fiction 2, Winter Version" is the absence of John Travolta. It
actually got to be rather amusing when I woke up from a drowse in the
chatty middle chapters. Easily the worst film Quarantino has ever made,
but when you reach his pinnacles of success you can get Almost any kind
of expensive stupid self-indulgence produced and foisted on an
unsuspecting public. As one smart physicist once said about a
ridiculous new theory, "It isn't even wrong..." -- QT's 8th outing
isn't even Bad -- it's just a pointless waste of celluloid and talent.
It does deserve one star, however, for the Wyoming snow scenery. My
alternate title: "The Hateful Ate Excrement all the Way" Alexx,
Budapest
