9
In the vein of The Deer Hunter, Out of the Furnace captures the hopelessness of a nation

Scott Cooper wowed us with Crazy Heart, his directorial debut that
nabbed Jeff Bridges his long awaited Best Actor Oscar in 2009. Cooper
has waited 4 years to bring us something that is very much so in the
vein of his last film. Out of the Furnace tells the bleak story of
Russell Baze and his determination to discover the truth about his
little brother, Rodney, after he goes missing without a trace. The
strength of this film relies on the performances, hands down. There is
no real plot twist, there is no memorable camera work, this is a film
that is built upon the strengths of its lead actors, especially
Christian Bale and Woody Harrelson. This is a throwback to 1970 style
cinema where story and acting trump anything technically. The story is
generic but it never feels quite as stale when you're watching it
because no matter how many times we've seen this story, we get lost in
Christian Bale's performance. He is a man of many facial expressions
and very few words and that really plays to his benefit in this film.
It shows that, while Bale can be as goofy as Dickie Ecklund in The
Fighter, he can also be as dark and ominous as Russell Baze. We really
see that Christian Bale is becoming one of the best actors of this
generation and with Out of the Furnace, he solidifies that. While Bale
delivers a dark and gritty portrayal of a man with nothing to lose, it
is Woody Harrelson that plays Curtis DeGroat, a sick, backwoods, meth-
dealing, brute and Harrelson plays him perfectly. Without giving any
spoilers away, there are a couple scenes (one of which involves a
prostitute) that are so unflinchingly brutal that features DeGroat at
his most nefarious. These are the roles that Harrelson relishes in, and
this film goes to show that nobody can play a villain quite like
Harrelson. He's the guy you love to hate and in Out of the Furnace, I
have to say he plays DeGroat with a pitch-perfect tone that it makes
you wonder where the line is drawn in his mind. You lose yourself in
the scenes with Harrelson because he is just that good at playing a
sadistic psychopath with murderous tendencies. The rest of the cast,
including Casey Affleck, are outstanding. However, this film showcases
Bale and Harrelson as definite Oscar hopefuls and it uses that to its
advantage. While we see enough of Affleck, Saldana and Whitaker, the
film belongs to Bale and Harrelson. This is a bleak and brutal film
with fantastic performances across the board. It is far from the feel
good movie of the year, quite the opposite, it is probably the most
depressing next to Prisoners, but just because you won't leave the
theater with a grin doesn't mean you should skip this.
