8
An immensely satisfying treat

As I've been exposing myself to new types of movies and different
filmmakers, I sometimes feel like I'm trying new food. CHEF, directed
by and starring Jon Favreau, was a delightful little indie "dish" and
an immensely satisfying treat. It's about a chef, Carl Casper
(Favreau), who works for this French restaurant. One night a critic
(Oliver Platt) comes in and later posts a scathing review on Twitter
that goes viral. Carl, a little bit new to social media, inadvertently
starts a flame war with the critic and challenges him to come back
because he'll cook the menu he wanted to cook the first time around.
Things don't end up going so well, and Carl leaves his job as chef and
takes his ex-wife's (Sofia Vergara) advice about starting a food truck.
Narratively, the film is somewhat divided. The first third or so is
more of a traditional "food" movie with some relationship drama thrown
in, but at a critical point the film shifts gears into a road trip
movie. Structure aside, I thought that they did a great job balancing
the food aspects (which looked amazing) and the character
relationships. The key relationship is between Carl and his son, who
comes along with him on his food truck journey. It was really great to
see how the relationship changed and improved over the course of the
film. Something should also be said for the cast. Although most of them
have relatively small roles, Favreau was able to call in some favors
and get Scarlett Johansson, Robert Downey Jr., Dustin Hoffman, Oliver
Platt, Bobby Cannavale, John Leguizamo and Sofia Vergara to appear
here. Even though most of these people only appear in the first half
when Carl works at the restaurant (and are therefore dropped once the
narrative switches gear), it was still nice to see them. I thought they
all gave excellent performances, even for such small roles. The only
iffy member of the cast was the boy who plays Carl's son who, at times,
seemed like a blank slate. Maybe that was intentional? I don't know,
but he also is a child actor so I won't make too big a deal out of it.
The only other aspect of the movie I find fault with is the way in
which the film ends, which I won't spoil here. All I'll say about it is
that it was a little TOO nice and clean. That being said, I thought
that CHEF really worked on an emotional level. Overall, it might not be
the best film I've ever seen, but it had a feelgood atmosphere, great
dialogue and some great cooking. Bon appetit!
