8
difficult and charming, brutal and beautiful, melancholic and humorous throughout, exactly when and where it needs to be

Rust and Bone is new film by Jacques Audiard known largely for his 

breakout success A Prophet and concerns the burgeoning relationship 

between whale trainer Stephanie (Marion Cotillard) and street fighter 

Ali (Matthias Schoenaerts).



If you can avoid it, it's probably best to avoid much of the plot, but 

given it's been fairly publicised this is fairly difficult, but this is 

a film that deals with disability, image and to some extent, class.



It's been mentioned a lot, but what's really wonderful about this film 

is it's complete sidestepping of exaggerated sentimentality it could so 

easily fall prey to.



In the wrong hands, this could be a feel-good, motivational tale of a 

disabled person overcoming their hardships and finding love and 

personal confidence with a emotionally crippled partner who learns to 

overcome his own shortcomings in a fantastical fairy-tale rather like 

another rather successful French film that was released earlier this 

year.



In all honesty too, what I just described isn't completely far-off the 

narrative arc in Rust and Bone.



The way the film handles its characters' emotionally however is so much 

more satisfying due, partly to the brilliant performances by both 

Cotillard and Schoenaert, but also in Audiard's writing and direction.



After all, Rust and Bone is a feel-good tale eventually, but it takes a 

really long time to get there and doesn't revel in it.



The two leads do overcome their physical and emotional traumas through 

their relationship but it is a slow process of recovery, one that is 

instantly recognisable in every day life.



For a film with such a potentially over-the-top synopsis, it does 

incredibly well to stay focused on this small set of characters it 

presents us as believable and relate-able figures.



It poses some fascinating questions; is street fighting really any more 

or less cruel than training beautiful orcas to perform tricks for our 

pleasure? Why do this father and son move in the first place? We only 

have to assume that whatever was going on before the narrative was 

worse than what is happening on screen.



What was Stephanie like before her accident? And, like in Beasts of the 

Southern Wild, is being tough with your child sometimes necessary? 

These questions leave the film open, even though the main narrative is 

fairly straightforward.



All in all, the sheer range of emotions this film produces is testament 

to it's strength.



It is difficult and charming, brutal and beautiful, melancholic and 

humorous throughout, exactly when and where it needs to be.



My only real criticism is that the narrative dips a tiny bit in the 

third act, once the central relationship is finally consummated (which 

again, takes along time and initially is very matter-of-fact in a 

suitably amusing scene), the narrative begins to drag its heels a tiny 

bit, as the film seems to completely forget about Ali's son (though his 

character seems to for a bit as well) but the final coda remains to 

avoid sentimentality in an excellent closing few scenes.



The cinematography and soundtrack are pretty beautiful too, completing 

a fantastic triumph of an understated film. 
