7
The best of both worlds

Being afraid of Child's Play as a child, I grew up loving and being a
big fan of the franchise. This movie feels like it's played in two
different parts.The first half is for the people who love the original three films. You
get the non scarred Chucky. Always hiding behind corners and running
across doorways. The face isn't of the doll isn't exactly what
remembered but it all makes sense later in the movie. The suspense is
good. The kills are nice. It really makes you feel like you're watching
the originals. When Alice is first under the sheets with Chucky and he
speaks, I had to go back and watch it again I love it so much. The second half of the movie feels like it's playing more for the Bride
and Seed fans. It reveals that Chucky had a mask over his scarred face
(which makes sense why the face looks different in the beginning the
other other films). I have to agree with everyone else that when he
walks down the stairs in that first scene as scarred it looked pretty
bad. But with a straight to DVD release you have to look past stuff
like that. It has a few one liners, nothing near like Bride or Seed. I loved the flashbacks and connecting the original with this film. I
love when they give you a little more information on something you
already know. The flashbacks alone made me a happy Chucky fan. The music also played a huge part in why I enjoyed this film. The
opening music as it circles Chucky on the chair, amazing. If you listen
closely you can even catch glimpses of the original Child's Play music
in there. Jennifer Tilly's cameo is more on the Bride and Seed vibe, but that
makes sense because that's the two she was in. You definitely get
homages to Bride in these last scenes. The last scene with Alice kind of leaves things up for your own
speculation which I like. I have my own thoughts of what actually
happened. The acting was great except for Danielle Bisutti. I understand you're
supposed to hate the character, but I was hating the actress playing
the character. I thought she was horrible. Fiona Dourif was great. Like
father like daughter. Some of the shots were a bit over acted, and some
of the dialogue have you rolling your eyes a little. But over all great
acting on everybody's part.Finally the very very last scene, post credits. I found that to be the
ultimate nod to the fans. Besides the flashback this is the only other
thing that really connects the first and last film. Yes Alex Vincent
isn't amazing, but who cares. It's the fact that he's playing Andy.
Plus you have his mom on the phone and he asks about Mike. Pictures of
Kyle, and the original picture of him and his mom. The line he delivers
to Chucky wasn't the best, but who cares. A good Chucky film for true Chucky fans. Great job Don.
