6
Repelling yet Riveting!

There is nothing that could concise David Wnendt's Feuchtgebiete aka
Wetlands in a single word. Well if one's given the liberty to express
what they'd seen or rather witnessed in a plethora of words, it'd most
likely be something close to obscene, disgusting, repulsive and most of
all shocking. If you've seen its red band previews, you can figure out
instantly whether the movie is for you or not. On the other hand if you
thought this'd be a usual sex- comedy with some gross factor, believe
me when I tell ya what you saw in the preview is nothing compared to
the movie. Nothing will prepare you for Wetlands' odd 105 minutes.Greeted initially with a splendid shot of a skater girl, it quickly
goes downhill before you can say "ugh". Wetlands follows the sexual and
unhygienic adventures of Helen Memel, a girl who is hellbent on making
her life as unhygienic as possible and labeling it as her
'experiments'. Helen played charmingly by Carla Juri, is on an
experiment with her own genitals and whatnot as she initially states in
the movie. Its kind of a parallel she draws with how she feels for her
parents and their divorce. While light at heart, the seemingly damaged
18 year old as Helen may seem it also brings out how bad she needed to
be loved.Beneath the layers of her weird habits and unimaginable sexual
fantasies, lies the conflict with herself and an intense yearning for
her parents' reconciliation. And Carla Juri does justice to the role.
Her performance was inexplicably good, shuffling from cute and sexy to
crude and repelling seemed like an easy feat for her. Right from the CG
titles, her narration reminded me sorely of David Fincher's Fight Club.I for one consider myself hardened, watching movies like A Serbian
Film, The Human Centipede, Martyrs, Inside, Hostel or even Salo but
there were scenes in Wetlands that truly deserved to be called cringe
worthy. I wouldn't suggest Wetlands for the faint of heart/stomach or
the more perverse either. As evident from the trailers this was
marketed as a over the top raunchy comedy but if you overlook all those
gross and perverse segments (which is hard I know), there is a sensibly
written story about the perils a late- adolescent girl goes though be
it physical or emotional. This movie does a decent or rather an
indecent job of blending the aversion with a story of someone who aches
for some love. I wonder if the same would work had it been a male lead,
and of course an immediate reminiscence was Qaushiq Mukherjee's Gandu.
