3
Started off good but got bad really fast...

-CONTAINS Spoilers-The story starts off with a girl who uses her boyfriend for money, a
home and everything else she can scab off of him. She is probably
cheating on him but that isn't directly explained in the movie so its
only speculation but she seems like the type. She is basically scum of
the scum. A person who uses others to get what she wants.Her boyfriend seems to be a pretty good guy, he works to make a living
while she sponges off of his success while making excuses about finding
work and doing nothing with her life. Finally he is sick of it and
dumps her. But later on in the story his personality complete changes
which makes no sense and makes him look desperate and needy.She moves back home where she apparently owns a giant house and has
money lying around to buy her a new bed and also untold amount of
alcohol despite having no job in the last year.She meets an old school buddy, he comes off as a nice guy at first and
helps her out. He tells her about his mother and she doesn't remember
that she died despite attending her funeral. He gives her a job because
he obviously wants to sleep with her.They are both chronic alcoholics and she often blanks out.She f**ks some random guy that plays no actual relevance to the story
later on and just disappears.There is a half crazy guy that is high on cocaine the entire movie and
they play him off to be some sort of wise man at first.She kills hundreds of people and complains about the 'bad guy that she
later on kills' for having a bit of fun despite not hurting anyone.
Then she physically assaults him multiple times until he finally snaps.She later on tackles him to the ground, killing hundreds more.He suddenly turns from nice guy into a mass murdering psychopath who
blows up his own restaurant that he spent his entire fortune and life
renovating over some girl he has only know for a week after not seeing
her for 20 some odd years.The story line, characters and dialogue were terrible but the actors
were superb and so was the CGI for a low budget film such as this so I
can't give it all bad reviews.I can deal with a few logic plot holes here and there, but the
characters personalities completely ruined the movie for me and made it
unenjoyable.Some people will absolutely love this movie, but not me... I prefer my
movies with a little bit more consistency and substance.
