4
Another failed Sparks adaptation

¨There's no safer place for you than here with me.¨



Chicks will definitely love this film, but I found it to be yet another 

recycled Nicholas Sparks adaptation. Sparks may have a fan base through 

his novels and movie adaptations, but if he continues to write the same 

movie over and over again he will eventually lose them all. I was a fan 

of The Notebook because the relationship felt authentic and Sparks 

writing was new to me, I really liked it, but Safe Haven is completely 

flawed. Not only is it full of romantic clichés (we get to see another 

canoeing scene in a lake interrupted by rain like in The Notebook), but 

it has some of the worst plot twists I've seen in film history. I guess 

it was an attempt from Sparks to make this film different from the 

rest, but the suspense and thrills never worked. It felt like The 

Stepfather with the melodrama from any chick flick you've seen. It's 

too bad Safe Haven didn't work because I like Swedish director, Lasse 

Hallstrom, who has made Chocolat, What's Eating Gilbert Grape, The 

Cider House Rules, and Salmon Fishing in the Yemen. This is one film 

that he would probably want to erase from his resume. The writers in 

charge of adapting Sparks' novel were Dana Stevens (City of Angels and 

For Love of the Game) and Gage Lansky. The script was weak, 

predictable, and extremely mushy. The film also suffers from a weak 

lead performance from Julianne Hough who was much better in the 

musicals she starred in: Burlesque and Rock of Ages. Her performance 

never felt believable and that hurt the chemistry with her co-star Josh 

Duhamel, who has also made a living off rom-coms like When in Rome, or 

Life as We Know It. Those mediocre movies look like masterpieces when 

compared to Safe Haven. Duhamel is a likable actor, but Hough's 

performance made it difficult to tolerate this film.



The movie begins with a young scared girl named Katie (Julianne Hough) 

making a frenetic escape from her hometown in Boston to a small North 

Carolina town known as Southport. She's running from something, but we 

are never shown exactly what happened. All we know is that something 

happened in her home involving a knife and a man, and now she has cut 

her hair and died it blonde and has escaped to this isolated place. 

Police officer, Tierney (David Lyons), tries to hunt her down but gets 

to the bus station a few seconds late. Katie decides that Southport is 

the perfect place to start over and finds a nice little cabin in the 

woods and a job at a local coffee shop. Katie tries to keep to herself, 

but she forms a nice bond with a little girl named Lexie (Mimi 

Kirkland) who is the daughter of widowed Alex (Josh Duhamel). Alex soon 

falls for Katie's good looks and they grow closer together. However 

Katie never mentions anything about her past. Katie also befriends her 

neighbor, Jo (Cobie Smulders), who seems to always be there for her for 

good advice. As Katie begins to fall for Alex more and more, she is 

still haunted by her past and isn't sure what her next move should be. 

Thus the melodrama begins. 



Safe Haven had some beautiful shots of romantic locations, but it was 

full of clichés and bad dialogues. At times while the music was playing 

the film even felt like one long music video or commercial. Safe Haven 

also suffers from an extensively long plot. At almost two hours I kept 

waiting for the end to approach, and it never did. One plot twist after 

another the film continued to grow increasingly tiring and tedious. By 

the end if you thought the film was entertaining you will be left with 

a bad taste in your mouth because the final twist is just ridiculous. 

Yes the film is romantic and sweet and girls will love this movie, but 

I don't think the male audience will be won over by the suspense and 

thrills. It didn't work for me, there was just no depth to the 

characters or the story. 
