8
A rare, worthwhile horror film for the family

R.L. Stine's beloved "Goosebumps" series of books were pivotal books in
the lives of millennials; I remember at least a couple kids in every
one of my elementary school classes reading Stine's eclectic, twisty
mysteries (I, myself, started on "Friday the 13th" and slasher films
much younger than I probably should have, so "Goosebumps" always seemed
like childish-fare to me). Nonetheless, a film adaptation - which
surprisingly took this long to come about - caters to the genre of
"kiddie horror" or "tween horror," a largely neglected, and frankly
financially uncertain, genre of film that always seems to have its mind
on creativity and adventure than anything else."Goosebumps" is very reminiscent of nineties TV movies one would find
on Nickelodeon or the Disney Channel; it evokes the kind of cheery
sentiment of network premieres that were the talk of the lunch table in
elementary school. Its ability to rekindle the kind of charm of the
series whilst creating something that's pleasantly manic and a bit
creepy without being too cheeky or immature shows that this kind of
filmmaking hasn't gone by the wayside just yet.The story revolves around Zack Cooper (Dylan Minnette), a teenager who
moves from New York City to a sleepy town in Delaware with his mother
following his father's untimely death. He quickly meets his neighbor, a
bitter and elusive grouch (Jack Black) with a beautiful teenager
daughter named Hannah (Odeya Rush). One day, while convinced that her
father has abused her after hearing screaming and yelling from the
home, Zack calls the police to the home, which leaves everyone but Zack
to believe it was a giant misunderstanding.As a result, Zack sneaks in the house one day to see if Hannah is all
right when her father isn't there. When Zack knocks a book off a shelf
and it unleashes the abominable snowman, he realizes Hannah's father is
R.L. Stine, the acclaimed author of the "Goosebumps" book series.
Suddenly, all of Stine's monsters are released from his books, everyone
from the invisible boy to Slappy the Dummy (both characters voiced by
Black, as well), which results in mass chaos for the entire state of
Delaware.Jack Black plays a very rare and interesting role here, one that allows
him to be pretty morose and angry, two traits he doesn't really
exercise quite often, if ever. The refreshing change for his overblown
personality results in "Goosebumps" being another showcase for his
versatility and incandescent energy levels that never seem to be
crippled, regardless of whatever script or director he's working with.And with a backdrop of numerous different monsters, quirky teenagers,
and some very fun sequences, particularly when the group tries to evade
the werewolf in the supermarket, the results are usually very
favorable. "Goosebumps" bears incredibly high energy levels and a
nonstop sense of manic fun, which keeps it a fluid and fun project,
often carefree and pleasantly not attempting to instill any kind of
self-aware, meta humor to what should be a simple endeavor for
families.
