2
I would quit making movies

This is the worst X-men film to date. Many of the earlier films suffer
from the rating restriction imposed by the need for a large under-age
viewer-ship. They are not gritty, they lack the adult character
relationships lack depth, and are too focused on action with minimal
blood. This movie seems to have made an attempt to be more "adult" by
throwing a few curse words in, but fails in the adult movie department
for starters because the plot just doesn't make any sense. From the
bear scenario at the beginning of the film, things are already looking
pretty direction-less, and it does not get better as Logan enters the
country of the samurai. The fight scenes are too fast, filmed too
closely, poorly sound-tracked (metal on metal sound every time an
adamantium claw enters someone's body, a bus, a tree), and not
believable. Sometimes Wolverine "lets" people get him down just so
another "hero" can save him, and throughout the film he takes on
injuries that a hundreds of years old warrior trained in every martial
art should have learned to avoid by now. Fans who have followed
Wolverine from comic book to television show to film will wretch at
this movie more than the first Wolverine title because it does not
portray anything of what makes Logan's story so compelling. How he
became what he is, the relationships he has had, the emotional baggage
he carries, and not being sure where he stands in the mutant struggle
for equality. Logan is an emotionally complex individual, one who has
had and lost, seen people be born and grow old and dynasties rise and
fall. The movie fails to convey any of this intellectually, showing
only a lonely man living in a cave in Alaska with a serious look on his
face who immediately falls in love with a girl, fights a bunch of
Japanese with no cause themselves for the next hour, and then gets on a
plane with another girl. The dream sequences with Jean Grey are
extraneous and at the end of the movie Wolverine fights a giant robot
that was designed specifically to take his powers by a person who has
every reason to be his friend. I am not sure anyone who could review
this film positively saw the same movie as me. I want my two hours
back.
