7
A surprisingly entertaining Halloween anthology...

Now, I will say that anthologies is usually something that I am not
overly keen on because they are mostly too shallow and you hardly get
invested in the segments as they tend to be too short in time. However,
I must admit to being more than pleasantly surprised with the outcome
of "Tales of Halloween".This anthology is comprised of ten stories spanning 1 hour and 32
minutes in total, which makes for a small amount of time per segment,
for sure. But what works in this anthology is that the segments are
precise and to the point; there is no trotting about and wasting time.
But better yet, the fact that each of the stories is connected with
another stories in the anthology just makes it all the more enjoyable
and watchable.Most of the stories were quite good, and there definitely was a good
variety of stories here, so there is something for just about everyone
in the audience, whatever your preferences and tastes may be.What really impressed me in "Tales of Halloween" was the amount of
familiar actors and actresses that they had popping up in all of the
segments. It was an actual joy of sitting and recognizing familiar
faces and trying to spot them. The cast includes names such as Barry
Bostwick, Lin Shaye, Barbara Crampton, Stuart Gordon, James Duval, John
Savage, Lombardo Boyar and more. So there definitely was a bunch of
talents to be seen here."Tales of Halloween" is listed as a horror comedy, which is exactly
what it is. Sure, there were spooks and creepy stuff to be had here,
but nothing in the likes of being too much for it to still be a family
spook fest. And the combination of horror elements and comedy worked
out quite nicely.The special effects and practical effects in the anthology was quite
good. The effects were believable and really served their purposes
quite well. This was good, because effects are quite important to
anything related to the horror genre.Of course, some segments were better than others, but in overall, then
this was a very enjoyable anthology. And it definitely turned out to be
a rather great surprise. I sat down to watch it with my family, and
everyone had a good time. So "Tales of Halloween" is a well-worthy
addition to any movie marathon that you might host during Halloween.If you haven't already seen "Tales of Halloween", then I can highly
recommend that you take the time to do so, because this really was
quite a blast.
