8
IMDb Schills are at it again!

Okay, so I just got done watching this film. I usually don't make it a
habit to leave reviews on here, but what motivated me this time was the
result of reading a slew of suspicious 'one star' negative reviews from
people who have left extremely vague comments.I found it very odd (to say the least) that on all of these so-called
one-star negative reviews, nobody bothered to write any specific
information concerning the plot of the reason for the negative reviews
on these critiques, but merely just wrote generic insults such as 'this
was a waste of time', or 'two hours I can't get back', etc. what's even
odder, the vast majority of said reviewers have only been IMDb members
for about a month. Funny, that! Now, I'm not saying that 'Atomic
Blonde' is on par with Citizen Cane, but it was written well enough,
had a lot of tense action-packed moments to keep one interested
throughout, and in addition to this...had a lot of twists and turns to
the plot to make the story very engaging! Any review on IMDb that tries
to malign the film without providing specific enough examples that
actually proves that the writer of said review actually saw the film
should automatically raise red flags. So what was it this time? Some
sort of anti-lesbian cabal who have made it a mission to lower the IMDb
score as much as they can in order to preserve the traditional family
ideals? Seriously, this is getting to be a joke! So for those out there
who want a genuine review from someone who actually saw this... I think
that this film is a breath of fresh air. This is one of those rare
films that had truly mastered the art of suspense. Not only that, but
it was so well written, that the end reveal of the true antagonist
packed that final unexpected blow that I very rarely get from the
plethora of predicable plots that are floating around out there.So to all of you mysterious 'anti-Atomic Blonde' crusaders/Facebook
group/posse out there: chill out! Just have faith in the fact that
there are intelligent people out here in the world that can make up
their own mind when it comes to film critique, and that don't need to
be influenced by some bizarre propaganda from people who have never
even watched this movie. Life is to short to waste it in trying to
pursue some bizarre hatred crusade.
