7
Top of the World looking down on creation

Having just this week returned from climbing all 19,341 feet of
Kilimanjaro, I find myself intimately capable of reviewing "Everest",
the new thriller from Icelandic director Baltamar Kormákur.Based on a true story from 1996, Jason Clarke and Jake Gyllenhaal play
Rob Hall and Scott Fischer respectively, rival organisers of commercial
climbing ventures whose businesses involve training well-paying clients
at Everest Base Camp and then taking them to the summit to experience
the 'ultimate high'. When the climbing season of 1996 becomes hugely
crowded, including a rather obnoxious team from South Africa, the two
rivals decide it is in the interests of their clients to combine forces
and attack the mountain together.We are introduced to some of the clients including Texan Beck Weathers
(Josh Brolin), second-attempt postman Doug Hanson (John Hawkes) and
Japanese mountaineer Yasuko Namba (Naoko Mori) chasing her seventh and
final major mountain summit. Supporting the teams is hen-mother from
base camp Helen Wilton (Emily Watson), medical helper Caroline
Mackenzie (Elizabeth Debicki from "The Man from U.N.C.L.E.") and
hard-man Anatoni Boukreev (Ingvar Eggert Sigurðsson) who eschews the
use of such luxuries as oxygen. To add dramatic tension to the
situation, Rob Hall's wife (Keira Knightley) is heavily pregnant with
their first daughter.In an extremely hostile environment, as a storm passes through, the
film neatly characterises how a single impetuous decision can have
devastating consequences.The action scenes in the film are well-executed with a number of
vertiguous shots and heart-in-the-mouth moments, neatly escalated by
Dario Marianelli's effective score. At its heart this is (without
remembering the details of the original news story) a "will they, won't
they" survival story of the ilk of "The Towering Inferno" and other
classic disaster movies.However, despite the long running-time and relatively leisurely
built-up, I found there to be a curious lack of connection between the
viewer and most of the key players. Perhaps this stems from the fact
that you know they were all fully aware of the potential dangers? Or
perhaps that the mountain seems a bigger character that any of the
humans involved? Whatever the reason, it's only the future parental
responsibilities of Hall that really resonate and make you root for him
as opposed to any of the other characters.Some of the hardest special effects to pull off are those that depict
the natural world (as opposed to Krypton, Asgard etc), and in this
regard the team led by Jonathan Bullock (from the Harry Potter series)
does a great job. Whilst the "top of Everest" was in reality a set in
the Pinewood 007 stage, you'll well believe a man can freeze there.As such, this is a decent and entertaining telling of a true-life
tragedy that will definitely work better on the big screen than the
small.(If you found this review useful please see the graphical version at
bob-the-movie-man.com and enter your email address to receive future
reviews. Thanks).
