5
After careful consideration, I am afraid to announce this film is overrated.

While it is a moderately decent film on a noble subject matter, I never
felt thrilled, moved or otherwise captivated in a way that deserves
over the top praise from other reviewers in my humble opinion.I felt that many opportunities to create dramatic tension and stunning
photography were thrown away as a result of the insertion of
ill-fitting material (black and white footage of Hitler? really?) and
poor script and acting (Keira is bland as vanilla I am afraid to say).It wasn't all bad. Translating the challenge of cryptanalysis into film
is a challenge which I think was valiantly attempted, though
excessively dumbed down.A number of sub-plots are introduced in different time frames, one in
Turing's childhood and one after the war. Sadly they fail to deliver
any meaningful drama, again as a result of mediocre writing. If
anything they are distracting and defuse any tension that might have
built up in the scenes that precede them. As such, the editing did feel
amateurish. The ending was extremely disappointing: why use lines of
text to depict that which can be shown instead? Finally there is a rather out of place scene with a barely disguised
and hypocritical feminist agenda. I say that because that particular
scene was fictional and never happened in reality, so its existence can
only be justified by such an agenda. I refer to the moment Keira
Knightly attempts to sit an exam to join Turing's code breakers' team.
An incredulous usher, convinced she is present for a job interview as a
secretary instead (because the evil patriarchy couldn't possibly
contemplate she is as capable as men - see how subtle that was? wow)
refuses her entry until our hero Turing intervenes and allows her in. We are also told this female character has a double first in
mathematics from Cambridge. If wartime Britain was so sexist, why does
she hold such a distinguished degree? And if sexism is so evil, then
why fall does the script fall in the trap of using her as an emotional
element in the story but glosses over the contribution her brilliant
mind made to Turing's efforts? Now THAT my friends, is sexist and the
film could have done without this ridiculous and off-topic political
manifesto. It was the final nail in the coffin as far as I was
concerned.I shall not watch this again, however I do fancy reading a biography of
Alan Turing, maybe something the film can take credit for.
