10
'Chaos is order yet undeciphered'

Portuguese author José Saramago (1922 – 2010), whose celebrated novels
can be seen as allegories and commonly present subversive perspectives
on historic events, emphasizing the human factor (BLINDNESS, SEEING,
THE STONE RAFT, THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO Jesus Christ, DEATH WITH
INTERRUPTIONS, THE CAVE, ALL THE NAMES, CAIN etc), published THE DOUBLE
in 2002: it took more than 10 years before being transformed for the
screen by Javier Gullón and directed by Canadian Denis Villeneuve. For
those who remain under the spell of Saramago's strange and seductively
intelligent writing this film will satisfy. For those who prefer linear
story lines of everyday possibilities the film will likely not find an
appreciative audience. This is a film that demands the full attention
of the viewer and the acceptance of alternative ways of viewing reality
and alternative reality.Living in Toronto, Adam Bell Jake Gyllenhaal) is a college history
professor, a loner, routiner, whose contact with the world outside the
classroom is limited to life with his live in girlfriend Mary (Mélanie
Laurent). A fellow teacher (Joshua Peace), apparently attempting to
open Adam's vistas, recommends he watch films and recommends a
particular film to Adam. When Adam watches the film he notes an actor
playing a bellhop who looks like Adam. He becomes obsessed with finding
out about this double of his. He learns that the actor's stage name is
Daniel Saint Claire, whose legal name is Anthony Claire (again Jake
Gyllenhaal). Claire is a Toronto based actor with only a few on-screen
credits, and is married to a woman named Helen (Sarah Gadon) who is six
months pregnant. Adam becomes obsessed with meeting Claire, who he
learns upon first sighting that they look exactly the same, from the
facial hair to a scar each has, but Claire who seemingly better
adjusted than Adam. Their lives become intertwined as Claire himself
ends up becoming obsessed with Adam, but in a slightly different way.
Is Adam viewing his alternate real self (a married man with a child on
the way) and escaping his reality with an affair with Mary? It is left
for the viewer to decide. The atmosphere created by the actors (Gyllenhaal is excellent as are
Laurent, Gadon, and Isabella Rossellini who plays Claire's - or Adam's?
- mother), the cinematography by Nicolas Bolduc and the music score by
Danny Bensi and Saunder Jurriaans are stunning. The introduction of a
tarantula motif adds further mystery to this vivid film. A film for
adventuresome thinkers who enjoy being challenged. Grady Harp,
September 14
