10
The Perks of a Great Cast, Writing and Direction

Spoiler Alert: There will be some spoilers in this review.I was very fortunate to have finally seen Perks of Being a Wallflower
(POBAW) at an advance screening courtesy of a fellow film fanatic and
blogger. I had to travel for the most part of a day through a couple of
States to get to the screening but it was worth every penny of the toll
fees charged.Disclosure: I read POBAW nearly 10 years ago when I was just about to
start college and it remains one of my favorite books alongside works
by Thomas Pynchon, Jane Austen, Sylvia Plath, John Irving, Gore Vidal -
a very eclectic bunch.I had also been tracking any plans to make a film version of the novel
since 2008 when Chbosky was quoted in an online interview that he was
working on a script based on his novel. I thought that's a very
hopeful, positive and at the same time brave sign. Around the time I
read the novel, I was also totally engrossed in a new drama series on
the WB called "Jack and Bobby" which starred a then 12-13 year old
actor named Logan Lerman whom I had seen previously in the cult
favorite "The Butterfly Effect" as a young Ashton Kutcher and the
Hallmark Hall of Fame movie "A Painted House". I was struck by the
maturity of Lerman's weekly output in Jack and Bobby and thought at the
time that he reminded me so much of Charlie in POBAW.Fast forward to 2010 when Variety broke the news that Lerman, Chbosky
and Emma Watson were all involved in the POBAW film with John
Malkovich's Mr. Mudd Productions - I knew then that it was going to be
special.And it is. It is a faithful adaptation of the novel to the screen but
not necessarily a set piece-for-set piece accurate one. More than the
plot elements and details, it is the story arc and the emotions in the
written work that have made a successful transition to the screen. For
that I must credit Chbosky for knowing what to cut and what to retain
in the film version. Even the use of songs other than those in
Charlie's mixtape works because the director and the entire team know
the essence of the book and how and why it has affected so many readers
and they respected it.Spoilers: There is no abortion scene, no reading of Dr. Earl Reum's
moving poem in the film or some of the scenes with Charlie's extended
family over the holidays and yet, I have to agree wholeheartedly with
Chbosky's decision on this. Fans of the book should not get into a
twist because some of these will not be seen because Charlie's story
and more importantly, his unique voice is there in all it's quirky,
lovable and emotional beauty.Don't let the obviously very commercial trailer fool you, the film
retains the book's darker moments and the demons which torment the
protagonist.As for the acting, I cannot say enough about how the cast embodied and
fully embraced the characters they were playing. First off, those who
know Logan Lerman only from his Percy Jackon-franchise should take
another look at this promising young actor. I have seen Lerman in other
performances in 3:10 to Yuma and My One and Only and always found him
to be a mature and sensitive actor. And while his performances in those
films are noteworthy, Perks allows him to show his full range and
versatility. He is Charlie no doubt about it and imbues the role with
sophistication and emotion. I realize the Academy doesn't take notice
of younger actors unlike the actress categories but Lerman's
performance is truly awards-worthy.Ezra Miller's portrayal of Patrick may surprise some fans of the book
as his characterization may be slightly more flamboyant than the
Nothing of the book but he delivers a funny, outrageous but ultimately
warm performance.Now Emma Watson really needs to do more work on her American accent as
her natural one flits in and out but it doesn't totally distract from a
winsome and winning performance as Sam. Perhaps not in the same league
as Lerman and Miller but certainly a departure and breakthrough from
just being known as Hermione. The actress knows how to choose material.
Also the chemistry between her and Lerman is outstanding.Mae Whitman, Paul Rudd, Joan Cusack, Kate Walsh, Dylan McDermott and
the always great Melanie Lynskey also make wonderful contributions. I
wish though that we had seen more of the young actor Chbosky cast as
Michael (cut out of the film) and Julia Garner of Electrick Children.Just a last note, Chbosky makes full use of his Pittsburgh setting to
situate the characters in the film. The Christmas/holiday scenes are
beautiful visually and so is the RHPS.If there is one thing I hope fans of POBAW will do is to tell people
they know to see the film. This is not your typical teen fare and
certainly miles ahead of the Twilight series and the Hunger Games. As a
coming-of-age film, I would place this in the same league as "Dead
Poets' Society" and the classic "Harold and Maude". More substantial
than John Hughes' work. This is real. I would love it if families could
see this film together. It deserves nothing less. I hope that there is
enough critical mass at TIFF and beyond to elevate this film for the
accolades it deserves.
