9
It takes a lot to scare me... This did!

Ever since the very first trailer came out I thought, "now this looks
good!" However, some quite poor reviews came in so my dreams were
shattered slightly. But then suddenly some rave reviews came out, even
from my favourite critic, Chris Tookey who gave it 5 stars! My faith
was suddenly re-installed and I was incredibly excited to see it. It
didn't disappoint!With "The Cabin in the Woods" and now "Sinister", 2012 is restoring my
faith in modern horror. It's a truly outstanding film that had me
gripped for its entire 115 minutes. The film doesn't dawdle about too
much either, it opens with a highly unsettling clip of found footage
and then we get a beautiful swooping shot of a man and his family
moving in to a new house. It's a standard set-up that we've even seen a
few months ago in the surprisingly fun horror, "The Possession" but
it's a clever one because we're mostly focused on our hero and in a
sense that is what the film is about. His obsession with himself and
trying to be re-ignite his fame after writing a highly successful debut
true crime novel, followed by several duds.I was quite surprised as to how much exposition was given to the main
character and it only makes the film even more compelling than it is.
He's also played brilliantly by Ethan Hawke, who makes up for the lack
of acting skills his wife possesses. It reminded me a little of "The
Shining" with the egotistical novelist stumbling upon a certain ghostly
history, and it certainly contains the same amount of creepy moments.
Ethan stumbles upon the super 8 films quite quickly which I was
surprised and pleased about, as all too often there's a belated
exposition before anything remotely frightening happens.These super 8 films are masterpieces in themselves. It's a sort of car
crash effect, as you don't really want to see them, but you can't stop
watching. They're all incredibly creepy, unsettling and sinister (like
what I did there?) They are also set-up perfectly with the horrible
grainy picture, silence as well as highly unsettling music that all
adds to the creepiness. All of them are engaging and compelling to
watch. They're also very chilling and are sure to engrave themselves
into your mind for a long time after the film has finished.From then on it's an intriguing and creepy mystery as more and more
disturbing information is uncovered. It's also clever how it's unclear
if some of what Ethan's seeing is actually real or not. Is he really
hearing noises or is it just the whisky talking? I liked the whole
family element as well, showing the protagonist as not just some
perfect hero, but also as a flawed character. The whole strained
relationship with his wife is a fantastic element on top of the central
ghost story. Although the woman who plays her is incredibly wooden!There's a strong, unsettling atmosphere that underlies through the
whole film. The demon man is also quite frightening and not too much is
explained about him which certainly adds to scare factor. I've heard
people call this a boring film and a bad film, but it's none of these
things. It's a genuinely horrifying horror film with fantastic writing
and directing. It's the type of film that gets under your skin and
leaves its print in your mind for a long time after the credits have
rolled. The ending is one of the most disturbing things I've ever seen
in a horror film and I've seen many!"Sinister" is a ghost story of Japanese proportions. By the end, I was
actually terrified and had chills all down my back, which is something
that doesn't happen too often. I never get scared watching films, but
after this and seeing "Noroi: The Curse" which also frightened me, I
was starting to think that I was becoming soft! But then I thought no.
These are just brilliantly scary films that are high on atmosphere and
don't solely rely on jump scares like too many American ghost films.
"Sinister" is one of the best horror films this year. It has a
relentless sense of dread throughout and is also incredibly effective
and compelling. I can't wait to see it again, and also can't urge you
enough to go and see it for yourself! Although, I'd recommend a night
light for when you sleep.Please read my weird and wonderful horror movie review blog!
www.asdaman.wordpress.com
