7
Cheesiness At Its Finest

If you're not someone that can handle random scenes containing
excessive blood or can't get in on the joke of the fact that a movie
fully embraces its cheese factor on purpose, then I guarantee you'll
probably hate your experience watching The Babysitter. With that out of
the way, I must say that Netflix's release of The Babysitter was a
blast to watch. It's not your generic horror film that goes for jump
scares and it's also not to be taken very seriously, which was a breath
of fresh air for the genre in my opinion. Yes, horror has been on a
nice streak over the past few years, but sometimes a cheesy romp is
necessary in order to break the chain. Here is why The Babysitter is
worth a watch.Beginning as a self-aware comedy about a young kid and the fact that he
finds his babysitter incredibly attractive, this is a movie that has
many twists and turns that you won't see coming. Wanting to stay awake
past his bed time in order to see what his babysitter does late at
night, he witnesses an incredibly graphic murder in his own living
room. Having to fend for himself and take down this cult of killers,
The Babysitter is relentlessly entertaining from start to finish. The
tone of this film is not for everyone though, so I have to caution
those with weak stomachs and those who just don't like to see gore. If
you're sucked into this wacky film and are willing to let it take you
anywhere, then I think you'll have as much fun with it as I did. It's not all sunshine and rainbows though, because there were a few
times where it began to lose me, due to its excessiveness. Whether it
was the language being thrown at one another or the murders themselves,
I found this movie to be a little full of itself in terms of its
graphic nature. Yes, it's not to be taken seriously, but it also
becomes a little unbelievable, even for the fictional world it's set
in. Directed by McG, who has had a very bad track record as of late, I
must say has improved with his latest attempt, even though I feel the
excessiveness was more than likely what he intended. That may seem like
a minor complaint, but it was a looming issue I had throughout the
majority. From the very beginning, although the look of this movie feels very
clean, the atmosphere itself was very well-done. From smoke filling the
ground at night, to a very old and lived-in neighbourhood, I found
myself engaged and believing everything that was happening, due to the
care in the production design. Sure, there are hundreds of other films
that have done this exact same thing better in the past, but why should
that take away from deserved praise? The Babysitter was very surprising
in terms of making a lot with a little. In the end, The Babysitter isn't going to blow anyone away as a film
itself, but I can't deny the sheer fun I had watching this movie. It
doesn't take itself too seriously, it embraces its cheese factor, and
does a great job with its comedy and keeping the audience engaged with
its surprising death sequences. If you're a fan of horror or even
comedy for that matter and don't mind gory sequences, then I feel
you'll have a good time watching this movie. The Babysitter is now
streaming on Netflix and I'll definitely give this one a
recommendation.
