4
It could be good. But it isn't.

Joy presents itself as an attempt of a fresh take on a very typical
Oscar-bait movie: the biopic. Sadly, it doesn't go beyond the attempt.Joy Mangano (Lawrence) is a poor and overworking divorced mother of two
children who lives with her dysfunctional family that in addition to
being completely dependent on her are also faithless on her ability to
be more than a house wife that will always struggle to get some food on
the table. Despite all the negative influence, Joy's imagination and
ambition are powerful and she manages to invent a revolutionary mop,
which she will try to develop and sell. Despite the fact that this mop
eventually turns into a success, she has to endure a path of betrayal,
jealousy and corruption (starting with her own family), hardships that
she will surpass (or else this would have never become a movie).What first caught my eye (or in this case, hear) was the soundtrack.
Composed by some famous jazz, classical and rock-and-roll songs, the
music was highly responsible for other positive features of this film:
a frenetic pacing and a very light atmosphere. These two features added
to some quirky dialogues and surrealistic dream sequences and
flashbacks gave this film a very interesting potential, that could have
turned the very basic plot into a fulfilling experience.However, Joy remains as flat as the synopsis would suggest. The
underdeveloped characters made impossible for any actor to perform well
here. Even Joy, the title character, seemed exactly the same during the
whole movie (the only reason I see possible for Jennifer Lawrence
winning that Golden Globe is that she did the most what she could with
almost zero material - and I don't want to believe that she was the
most deserving actress of the year.) The whole family seemed like
one-dimensional caricatures of pessimistic morons, which lead to
completely forgettable performances by everyone involved. There was
also a very short appearance of Bradley Cooper as an executive who
first believed in Joy's idea, but whose character suffers from the same
problem as the rest. There seemed to be a slightly romantic chemistry
between him and Jennifer Lawrence that I found completely needless, as
it lead to nowhere. Another very distracting feature was the constant
out-of-focus framing, especially on indoor scenes! Amateurish, to say
the least.Overall, I think David O. Russel tried to do something different from a
biopic which is something I respect very much! The fact that he focused
on a very particular moment of Joy's life, the invention of the mop,
could be something he could have explored better, but in the end we are
left with just that, which is kind of frustrating... To finish where I
started, Joy could have been a good movie, but ends being nothing more
than a typical hollow Oscar bait.
