8
A Grimm Tale Indeed

￼(RATING: ☆☆☆☆ out of 5)THIS FILM IS RECOMMENDED. IN BRIEF: A visually stunner caught up in the undergrowth of its own
conventional storytelling.GRADE: BSYNOPSIS: A child suffers the harsh realities of life and retreats to
another world.JIM'S REVIEW: J. A. Bayona's A Monster Calls is a visually imaginative
downer of a tale about a young boy who must learn to cope with grief.
Based on the award-winning children's book by Patrick Ness and adapted
by the author himself, the film uses animation and live action to tell
its tale of woe. The results of this dark tale are enlightened by
stylish direction and a highly effective performance by newcomer. Lewis
MacDougall.Mr. MacDougall plays Conor O'Malley whose life is filled with too many
harsh realities: a mother suffering from terminal cancer (Felicity
Jones), a distant grandmother (Sigourney Weaver) and a more distant
father (Toby Kebbell), a cruel bully (James Melville). Real life offers
no solitude, so Conor retreats to an imaginary world which brings with
it a giant yew monster (Liam Neeson). During his visits, the tree
creature provides some respite for Conor. He gives him sage advice by
telling some stories to help this child through the darkness to find
some solace in the real world. ￼A Monster Calls is more of an allegory and the film's narrative
structure uses the format of interspersing animated vignettes as
parables to the parallel story of Conor and his terminally-ill mother.
Yes, the film is manipulative from the start, with its undeniable
melodramatic set-up and ultimately tragic conclusion. The real world
story is dull and so relentless in its brooding melancholia compared to
the free-spirited other worldly realm and, at times, this reviewer
wanted to stay in the latter. But the filmmakers treat their serious
subject with such dignity and honesty, avoiding the maudlin and
sentimental for the most part. There is so much to admire about Mr.
Bayona's film. (The subject is not an easy task to sell to the general
public. Not surprisingly, the movie is doing lackluster business in the
States, although globally it is doing well. Nowadays, American
moviegoers are looking to escape reality, such like the main
character.)Technically, the film soars. From Oscar Fuura's stunning photography to
Fernando Velazquez's haunting music score, the film looks death
squarely in the face and celebrates life. Seamlessly edited by Benat
Vilplana and Jaume Marti, A Monster Calls uses its sumptuous visuals to
its advantage. With swirls of bright watercolor washes adding a
vibrancy to the film's story-within- a story format, the film
efficiently contrasts the real from the unreal. Kudos to director
Bayona and his team of artisans on their handling of this delicate
theme.The lead performances are all first-rate, Mr. Neeson voices the Monster
perfectly and his motion capture performance is wonderful and so
heartfelt. Ms. Jones brings superb understatement to her role as
Conor's sickly parent. Her chemistry with Mr. MacDougall seems genuine
and authentic. This young actor, in his film debut, is remarkable and
runs the full gamut of emotions without one false note. Providing
supporting work in their rather stock roles are Ms. Weaver and Mr.
Kebbell who are merely serviceable, possibly due to the writing and
characters.￼A Monster Calls is indeed a Grimm tale, but one that deserves your
attention. And be forewarned, bring a hankie with you.
