6
Suspenseful and engrossing, but as the mystery slowly unravels, the movie does as well.

Honeymoon reminds me a lot of The One I Love which came out the same
year. They're both about a couple who go on an isolated retreat and end
up getting more than they bargained for. It's a good premise and one
that promises potential, but it's entirely reliant on the execution of
the mystery. Something is wrong with Bea, the wife of the recently
married couple. The first night of their honeymoon, she wanders out in
the middle of the night and Paul, the husband, goes out to find her
naked in the woods with no memory of what happened prior. From then on
she acts distant - hiding things from him, lying about trivial things -
something just isn't right. And the way the movie is set up is very
well done. For a good hour of the movie I was totally into it. I had no
idea what the threat was and was eager to find out. Then you do find
out what it is and it's quite horrifying, but you can tell the
filmmakers didn't exactly know how to end the movie. What carries Honeymoon is the acting. The two leads are excellent and
have great chemistry throughout, so when the weird things start
happening, you believe the husband's growing concern and the wife's
pleads of innocence. And the pacing is spot on. Atmosphere is front and
center from the start. The setting is a cabin in the woods, and as
cliché as it may be for a horror story, it can be thoroughly effective
with the right ambiance and Honeymoon delivers in that regard. The
mystery itself is unraveled at a good pace as well, leaving breadcrumbs
for the audience and throwing a few twists and turns along the way. Now I'm giving the movie a lot of praise, and that's because I consider
6/10 an above-average score which is precisely what Honeymoon is - an
above-average horror mystery. It's nothing revolutionary. The One I
Love did a better job with this premise, but that doesn't mean
Honeymoon isn't worth checking out. If you're in the mood for an
engaging edge-of-your-seat thriller, you're looking in the right place.
