9
Marvel makes a bold move!

Marvel showed pretty clearly in Iron Man 3 that they are not afraid to
take risk, bend comic stories and venture into unknown territories. I
was pleasantly surprised by Captain America : The Winter Soldier
because Marvel is able to do surprise audience like never before. This
movie has mostly everything a fan could ask for. A political drama,
conspiracy theories, Chris Evans portrayal of a "out of his time"
superhero who is trying to blend in with the world and thinks that
"Internet is helpful", typical Marvel's laugh out loud moments and
above all some mesmerizing action sequences. Threat in this movie is
not as big as the one in Thor :The Dark World since only our tiny
planet is at stake rather than entire 9 realms with imaginative
difficult to pronounce names, but thanks to some very smart blend of
direction, acting and close to perfect background scores, threat seems
to be much bigger and more importantly, real this time. You actually
care for the fate of entire planet and characters. You do come face to
face with the full potential of SHIELD and its structure, its influence
on world politics and when the actual villain is revealed, you just
cannot hide your excitement. SHIELD acts as a central character in the
movie and shows itself to be far bigger and complex than what we
suspected after watching all the Marvel offerings. There is Nick Fury
as usual hiding secrets, keeping secrets and digging secrets but
watching him vulnerable in this movie is much better than watching him
acting all almighty in Avengers. Chris Evans shine in this role and I
can imagine he won't be at the bottom of favorite Avengers list after
this movie. His portrayal of Captain America is near perfect. Scarlett
Johansson is a surprise package in the film portraying Black Widow
character. She gets ample screen time presence this time, even in
scenes where she is not kicking someone. It is actually the first time
we learn something about Black Widow, duplicity in her character just
adds tension to the already built suspense in the movie. Sebastian Stan
is good in his portrayal of winter soldier. He is a perfect nemesis to
Captain America in the movie. I bet you haven't seen such creative
combat scenes between these two ever before. Action here is not as loud
as Thor movies, it is more real, every bullet which find its target
hurts, every punch delivered matters, it is so enjoyable to watch just
because it is so real. I wish I could write about some more characters
but that will be giving away some key points. Please be assured there
are some great character comebacks, some you expected, some you didn't.
I was a little let down by the climax of the film by its simplicity
after the real motive of the real villain is revealed, but of course
you have to remember its a Marvel film, there doesn't exist any
situation alien/political/social which can't be solved by few
explosions and kicks. Overall it's a highly entertaining film from
Marvel, I will put it behind only Avengers and first Iron Man, this
movie deserves your weekend. And of course it goes without saying,
don't dare to leave your seats until last credits have rolled out, you
have probably all heard the rumors about Joss Whedon directing the end
credit scene. Yes it is awesome and offers an insight into the next
Avengers movie.
