9
A Credible World

For some people, it's questionable for Spider-Man to get a reboot. The
first film of Sam Raimi's version was just a decade ago and some
considered it as a cult classic. Though, one might complain for not
being too faithful to the comic books. The first film rushes a lot to
the story. Like, Mary Jane was already the love interest and Peter
Parker immediately left High School. This edition tries to be a lot
more faithful to the comic book. The result is great. The film works
better in the drama. The pacing may be too quick in some parts but it's
still fun and heartwarming as it suppose to be.If you've already seen the 2002 version of Spider-Man then definitely
you won't find a lot of thing here new. The only things that are new
here is Peter Parker's father and the new ways how Spidey's powers
work. Unlike the original Spider-Man stories, the use of his powers is
not as simple as it looks. Here, he needs a device to shoot a web
perfectly. He accidentally sticks at objects. He always cause a lot of
damage. But it looks credible. What's more credible is when he wasn't
quite a professional swinger at his first fights.In some parts, it paces way too quickly and sometimes it feels rushed.
This happens in the third act and the montages when Peter was
developing his costume. The rest is pretty fine, but the quickness of
the pacing of those parts is still noticeable. There are also parts
that feels forced like Dr. Conners becoming evil because he became the
Lizard. Aside from those, the film is good in drama. It has plenty of
genuine emotion and heart. Even in the action scenes. One thing that
never fails is the message of being a hero. It's not always about
fighting crimes and saving the day. It's all about the hero's
character.Andrew Garfield is indeed the best choice to play Peter Parker. He's a
talented actor and he made Peter Parker a realistic character. Emma
Stone is also great to her role. She made her character more than just
a love interest. In other filmmaking, fans might miss Danny Elfman's
music but James Horner's score is effective to the scenes. The action
is fun enough and the CGI is works well enough. It has plenty of POVs
to make it look exciting in both 2D and 3D.The Amazing Spider-Man is almost the best Spider-Man movie. It has an
incredible hero and an incredible villain living in a world that is
close to reality. He is not yet professional to his own powers. He is a
teenager who needs to be responsible. The drama is more effective in
this film than the recent trilogy. Although I complain too much about
the pacing, the depth of the story makes you think that awesome set
pieces and perfect filmmaking doesn't quite matter. Because it's a
superhero film that cares more than just action. The action scenes are
great but the mind blowing effect here is the heart and the man behind
the mask.
