5
A Good Start, but a Weak End with Too Few Scares

October is that predictable month where cinema, TV, videogames –
everything – will cash in on Halloween. There's no escaping it – but
fortunately if you love some horror then it's not a time that fills you
with dread; you actually find yourself looking forward to it! Not that
many of these horrors are actually good; many that come out these days
are predictable, cheesy and more funny than scary. Yet every now and
then a horror comes out that's different; one that shakes up the genre
and defies the audience's expectations, breathing fresh life into the
genre. Sadly, although it may have seemed that way in the trailer, The
Ritual is not one of these films. Rather, it's one of those lacklustre
horrors that will inevitably find themselves in the corner of
forgettable horrors on Netflix.Much of it is very much reminiscent of horror classics The Blair Witch
Project and The Wicker Man (the latter becoming much more obvious in
the final act of the film). In fact this film really does feel like
it's two distinct parts – the initial phase, taking up the first two
thirds of the film with a strong Blair Witch feel to it, and the final
phase, feeling very much like a Wicker Man tribute. If the final
section was intended to refresh the film and turn it on its head in an
ingenious way, this fails as the two sections seem so different and
disjointed it doesn't flow well and seems like a strange jump;
particularly since the end is barely explained, leaving us with much
more questions than we should really have.Still, while the ending may be weak, the beginning by contrast is
fairly strong, giving us an enjoyable, solid set up. The bleak murder
of their friend is dark and impactful, with Rafe Spall's portrayal very
good as you can see in his face how this event has affected and changed
his character. Still it's not just Spall who carries this film; a large
part of the strength of the beginning is due to the chemistry and
banter between the four friends, the way they joke and interact with
each other remaining enjoyable and, most importantly, believable
throughout. This gives the film its own personality and, when they
finally get into the forest and come across creepy goings-on (such as a
dead deer and an unsettling wooden hut) this stands out as being
particularly creepy, the contrast giving the horror more of an effect.
It's in this hut where things start to change; not just for the
characters but for the film itself.The first night is justifiably strong and creepy, seemingly setting up
a fairly scary movie with strong elements of horror – sadly though it
just doesn't seem to go this way. After this point The Ritual begins
its slow descent, as the thread unravels and the plot crumbles, leading
us to a pretty slow and dull middle, before the unsatisfying ending.
Once the horror starts the banter stops and the group start turning on
each other – something you'd think would be a strong point. But the
arguments are quickly resolved and the characters don't continue to
develop throughout this point, remaining half-developed. Then whenever
any deaths happen, as an audience we aren't as fussed as we should be.If only the final third brought it all together, but instead it's a
nonsensical finale, attempting some semblance of a reasonable plot,
with just an easy line or two in an effort to explain things. Not that
everything in a film needs spelling out, sometimes less is more; but
when there's next to nothing, this makes what would be a strength into
a weakness. At the end, we still don't know exactly who the creepy
occult are, what the monster is or does, or even necessarily what it
looks like – the latter being particularly disappointing since from
it's silhouette it looks like it could have been an interesting monster
design, but all we see is a shadow of an oversized moose.Whilst the sinister and creepy atmosphere is nicely kept up throughout,
it's a shame there wasn't much horror or actual scares for us to enjoy.
It's seldom scary and just occasionally unsettling at best. At least
there are no cheap jump scares; instead there's just the occasional cut
to a different scene with a loud-ish noise that might make some of the
more nervous audience members jump slightly. Still I was a fan of how a
lot of the horror is an allegory for Luke's guilt in not intervening in
his friend's murder. Unfortunately this is referenced so often that the
constant flashing back to the scene of the crime loses its potency and
starts to become tedious.The Ritual isn't a bad film per se at all; rather it feels as though
all the ingredients are there, but it's just a missed opportunity. The
bunch of friends are all likable, well-cast and well-acted, their
banter carrying the film in the first act nicely. The constant sinister
atmosphere is good, but sadly the horror and scares are missing, with
the end feeling like such an unsatisfying mess that it eclipses most of
what was good in the beginning. So The Ritual won't be taking the spot
for best horror this year – that spot may be reserved for It or Get
Out, but let's wait to see what Jigsaw is like before we declare the
winner…
