9
ill explain enemy for everyone

nobody seems to understand enemy, I loved the movie personally and you
understand it if you watch it twice and pay attention.okay ill try to explain it, it is about one man fighting with himself ,
while it is portrayed as two people (Anthony/Daniel and Adam) only one
of them is real, and its Adam, I know this because in the beginning on
the phone his mother is speaking and says "Adam honey" and also later
on in the movie his mother also tells Adam (who is not an actor) to
give up his dreams of being a third rate actor. now the story of this
movie is hard to understand , its about Adam and Helens marriage and
the remaining spark of an old affair, in the beginning you see it open
with Jake Gyllenhaal in what is presumably a strip club, eventually you
see a woman come out and step on a spider, the woman is Mary, Adam's
affair , after that it opens to Adam sitting in his car as you hear his
mother leave a voice mail for him. Throughout the movie you see
spiders, spiders represent his affair with Mary, and how he still
thinks about it, and when you see Adam with Mary he really isn't its
just representing his still lasting feelings for her. you see when Adam
calls Anthony it really wasn't Adam, it never happened, the whole phone
call scene was his imagination, helping him realize he needs to forget
about Mary. I'm gonna skip a bunch of unimportant things and try to go
as chronologically as I can. At the point where Anthony tells Adam hes
going to have sex with his girlfriend , that's really just Adam
thinking to himself about him needing to get rid of Anthony and the
memories of Mary. so when Anthony goes and takes Mary out that doesn't
really happen. whats happening is Adam is thinking that up to help in
the getting rid of memories, it is also revealed that Adam is the real
person when Adam and Helen lay down and Helen asks how was school . the
scene of Mary and Anthony having sex and Mary freaking out is Adam
realizing he is married and needs to get rid of the memories, when
Anthony and Mary crash the car it is Adam killing off the memories ,
squashing the spider per Se , this is supported when it zooms in on the
crashed cars window the crack looks like a spiderweb, when Adam wakes
up the radio speaks of a car crash but it says no details so It is
likely that was just chance. also Helen reminds him about his mother
calling him, which you should remember from the beginning of the movie.
when Adam opens the letter and gets the key, it is a key to the strip
club place, and he says to Helen he might have to go somewhere tonight.
he goes to look at her and she is a huge spider, this represents how
him going to the strip club would bring back the spider. during the
movie the spider gets gradually bigger until it is huge and he cannot
get it off his mind. so I hope I've explained well enough to help you
understand what an amazing movie this truly is.
