9
A Superbly Written Drama

Adapted from the novel by Molly Bloom (the subject of the film), Aaron
Sorkin has officially stepped up to helm his first film as both writer
and director. Most notable for his screen writing work on The Social
Network, Moneyball, or Charlie Wilson's War (just to name a few), I've
always had a love for anything he writes. His screenplay's always place
the dialogue in the forefront, making for a very intense drama on
almost every account. Even if the material is dull, he always finds a
way to pick up the pace and make it an interesting and engaging
experience for audiences. Molly's Game is latest film that's about to
hit the big screen, and once again, his style is as engaging as ever.
You should keep your eye out for the release of this film. Opening with a very stylish sequence involving her past as an Olympic
skier, we quickly learn that her character has been through a lot and
will be a very devoted person throughout the course of the movie. From
then on, this film is a series if dialogue-driven scenes that never
seem to stop until the credits roll. Throwing you into the life of
Molly as a waitress, only to see her grow into a woman who assists in
running a high-rollers underground poker event, this film wastes no
time on the small stuff. Whenever it seems as though a certain plot
point is starting to drag, it jumps forward in time, either immersing
you in an intense game of poker, an emotional moment with a family
member, or simply a double-cross by one of the players. Characters state that everything going on is technically legal, but
you'll still find yourself wondering, which is the beauty of such a
well-written screenplay. This movie doesn't create an overdone
conclusion, because that's not the point of this film. This film exists
to prove that this woman was innocent in what she had done and that
everything was legal along the way. Sure, there are moments of tension
between characters, but the film has much more heart behind it as well.
This screenplay deserves a nomination of some kind, there's no doubt
about that, but is the direction just as impressive as the script?When writers or even actors step into the director's chair, it's always
a risk for the studio. They could be fantastic and making the right
step for their career, or it could end up where they should've stuck to
what they new best. Happily, Aaron Sorkin is definitely worthy of
making films in my opinion. No, the visceral imagery and camera-work
that comes from a film directed by the likes of a David Fincher (who he
has worked with in the past) is certainly not present here, but that's
not to say he did a bad job in the slightest. Molly's Game is above
average in terms of direction and I can see him continuing to pursue
this area of his career and doing an even better job. He was clearly
passionate about this particular story and I believe his choices paid
off in spades. In the end, I believe Molly's Game will definitely be up for a few
awards this coming season, due to is devoted cast and crew throughout
the entire production. From its inspired editing by a trio of editors
who have worked on some pretty large productions, to it's Oscar-worthy
screenplay, to its intense moments of dialogue and surprise turns
throughout each act, this is not a film to miss. Yes, I feel as though
it may be about 10-15 minutes too long, but some of the greatest films
of all time are nearly four hours and even those films feel
unnecessarily long. Molly's Game is slightly drawn out, but it's a
superb picture nonetheless. I loved my experience with this film and I
highly recommend checking it out when it hits theatres.
