7
Soderbergh's epilogue(?)

Steven Soderbergh's "Side Effects" begins with the camera zooming in
from the streets to an apartment window, and ends in the reverse manner
(no, I'm not spoiling anything). In a subtle way, Soderbergh's final
shot represents his "full circle". Will he really retire from
filmmaking for good? If so, then we will miss him. He is a truly
exceptional filmmaker - and "Side Effects" would be a worthy film to go
out on.Indeed, "Side Effects" is a pure thriller, as it was marketed. While
prescription medicine is the central plot device, the film also deals
with psychology, law, insecurity, social stigma, corporate greed and
obsession. Not explicitly for all of them, mind you, but subtly enough
to get the point through, and not dawdling on it a second further. The
taut, gripping, Hitchcockian screenplay by Scott Z. Burns gleefully
twists and turns its way into unexpected plot developments, allowing
Soderbergh to roam the apartments and streets with his camera, creating
an intense yet unusually hypnotic atmosphere that is irresistibly
gorgeous to watch.Jude Law, looking more haggard here, is suitably desperate and
obsessive as the "good?" doctor who seeks the truth pervasively after a
horrific act committed by his patient, Emily (Rooney Mara). Clues lead
him to Emily's previous doctor, Dr. Siebert (Catherine Zeta-Jones),
which reveal that things are not what they seem. Zeta-Jones is juicily
and devilishly icy-cold in her portrayal of Siebert, reminding me of
those wicked female villains of the 90's thrillers. Staying in the
background while having an influence throughout the second half of the
movie is Rooney Mara, once again giving a strong performance as the
conflicted Emily. Extremely vulnerable, soft-spoken, and unpredictable,
she continues to steadily rise as one of the best young actresses
working today. Channing Tatum too, as her husband Martin, an ex-convict
fresh out of prison for insider trading, portrays his character outside
of the stereotype, and turns him into a somewhat sympathetic and
unfortunate character.Soderbergh's complete control of atmosphere would not be complete
without his usual great cinematography, crisp editing and unnerving
music score by Thomas Newman, who conjures up some interesting musical
themes at the proper times to rattle the characters even further. This
is extremely skillful filmmaking, and although the plot has been seen
and done before, it is exhilarating to see how a master filmmaker
commands his given material so strongly and fleshing it out with his
signature style.This is a very good film. It's one of those movies that, when you start
watching, you want to keep watching to see what happens next. Hitchcock
himself would have smiled at this one. As for Soderbergh, he still has
that Liberace biopic due for a TV release later this year, so he's not
done with it yet. But well, I sure hope he returns someday if he
decides to do so.
