6
Very relevant and important, but not very good

"Spotlight" is an American movie from last year that runs for slightly
over 2 hours and was written and directed by Tom McCarthy. It won two
Academy Awards earlier this year, including the grand prize for Best
Picture. And the reason for this is probably that it is about a really
important subject, namely the way it was discovered by a major
newspaper that pedophilia was something that existed on a larger scale
in the Church, despite many attempts of the latter to keep it
disclosed. Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams managed Oscar nominations
for their supporting performances. I cannot say I agree with either
sadly. McAdams played her part well, had a couple good moments, but I
don't think it was one of the best of the year in her category.
Probably more of a coattail nomination, I remember it was also pretty
surprising she got in. Ruffalo's nomination was no surprise, he got in
at all the precursors too. But I had sometimes problems with his
performance. It seem over-the-top theatrical and it had a touch of one
man against the Church at times, which went entirely against the idea
of the team collaboratively managing great things. I am usually a fan
of Ruffalo and he has good moments here too, but I think a mix of not
so good writing and perhaps not the best approach to the role may have
hurt the character. Keaton, Tucci, Slattery and Schreiber are pretty
much the same, good but not great, but probably on par with the two
nominees. It was a team effort and nobody really stood out.In terms of the entire film, I summarized it appropriately in the title
I believe. It is a very important subject and it was a strong cast
making this subject work with dignity and professionalism, but I
personally felt the heart was missing. And this subject certainly would
have deserved to make a more emotional impact in the grand scheme of
things than it did on me. The attempts by McCarthy to deliver in terms
of that were something that felt rather forced than effective to me.
They brought in references to the journalists' private lives and how it
impacted them to some extent, but it did not feel too compelling to me
to watch these and the victims also did not add as much as I hoped they
would. The ending with Keaton's "Spotlight" quote was nicely done
though. I also liked the way they brought in 9/11 getting in the way of
disclosing the events. Overall, I believe this is an important movie
that is worth watching mostly because it all happened in reality and
because with the Best Picture win, it is probably now the defining film
on a very contemporary and tragic occurrence of events. But I still
feel it did not make the impact that it could have made and my favorite
McCarthy film to this day stays "The Visitor". But I recommend
"Spotlight" too of course. I would say it's nowhere near the best or
worst Best Picture Academy Award winners.
