1
Don't go expecting anything remotely similar to the book.

So this movie is set in Gatlin...and the main characters are Ethan and
Lena... and that is where the similarities to the book end. My friend
and I recently read the book in preparation for going to the movie. We
adored the book and were excited to see the film. First, let me say that I have seen countless movie from book
adaptations and, granted, they all stray. However, most of the time,
there are just a few niggling details that bother me. This movie
COMPLETELY lost the charm of the book it was adapted from. Every
beautiful moment, every lovely detail was eliminated for cheap, CGI
effects and cloying, pitiful attempts at romance.While the performances were solid by some very talented actors, I have
to wonder why they even accepted the parts??The most glaring problems were the following: 1.) Amma and Marian fused
into one character - WTF? 2.) Ethan portrayed as a lovable idiot 3.)
The HORRIBLE accents used in this movie were incredibly grating - and I
am from Mississippi 4.) Why did all the inhabitants of Ravenwood look
like they just stepped out of a community theater's performance of
Alice in Wonderland? 5.) Where was BOO RADLEY?!?!? How hard is it to
get a dog people!?! 6.) Larkin wasn't dark - he was insipid and frankly
a useless character 7.) Why was the trial at the beginning of the movie
and not after the dance, and for that matter - why didn't we see the
dance? 8.) Rosemary and Lemons anyone?! 9.) the sixteen moon song
10.)Nothing with Ethan's dad - nothing. 11.)All of the scenes with the
locket visions were pitiful.I could go on and on and on and on...even small things like the movie
Ethan is watching when Mrs. Lincoln comes to his house on Halloween
were different. How hard is that to get right for goodness sake?!In summary, this movie was awful. I tried to just view it as a movie
and separate it from the book I had read in my mind, but that made it
even more insipid. I was literally laughing out loud in parts they were
so schmaltzy and ridiculous. MAYBE, maybe if you hadn't read the book
and were 12 years old and were an idiot, maybe then you would enjoy
this movie. At least I got to listen to Jeremy Irons talk, that was the
only redeeming factor.I wanted to address other reviewers comments that "even the Harry
Potter movies strayed from the books". This is true. However, key
characters, plot lines and story elements were never eliminated as they
were in this film. Based on the storyline of this movie the film makers
have made it virtually impossible to continue the series. Rant over.
