8
Good Thriller with a Good Mystery

James Barr (Joseph Sikora), a former military sniper, is in jail for
killing 5-people and says he is innocent. He asks for ex-Army MP
Officer, Jack Reacher (Tom Cruise). But Reacher knew Barr in Iraq and
is out to prove him guilty. Hmmmshould be a slam dunk.It's not often that we get a good thriller along with a good mystery as
well, but that is what we have here. Why would Barr ask for Jack
Reacher if Reacher knew what Barr did in Iraq? Also, what was the
purpose of Barr killing 5-people who had no connection to each other?
Assistant DA Helen (Rosamund Pike) asks Reacher to help prevent Barr
from getting the death penalty. But, we also had some good fight scenes
and an exciting car chase. Let the games begin. This gets somewhat talky in the beginning as Helen and Reacher analyze
what had happened. But, we hang on every word because we, too, need to
know things. All this sounded like the dialogue was dubbed in, but I
think the microphones were just too close to the characters and this
made it seem as if the dialogue was dubbed in. To be honest it did look
like Rosamund Pike had weak knees around Tom Cruise, but the script
wouldn't go here. It just looked that way to me. The supporting cast of bad guys was good as was Detective Emerson
(David Oyelowo), assigned to the Barr case. Robert Duvall comes in as a
retired USMC Gunnery Sgt, Gunny Cash, who does a masterful job as the
owner of a gun range and inserts some humor as he deals with Reacher. Over all this was very good. But, I did have the feeling something was
missing. Maybe it needed a better ending as this one was kind of weak
for such a good story. Maybe Tom Cruise is leaving his Mission Impossible movies behind and is
now centering on another action hero: Jack Reacher, who is described as
someone who seems to only wear the clothes on his back, doesn't care
about the law and is only concerned with one thing: justice, and the
way he goes about achieving it may shock you. Hey, Lee Child, the
author of the Jack Reacher series wrote about 15-books. See? (8/10)Violence: Yes. Sex: No. Nudity: No. Language: Yes, not much
