10
The Counselor: A Shakespearean tragedy of greed and desperation.

The Counselor, like previous McCarthy adaptations, is gorgeous to
behold, but unlike No Country and the others, this one is unnervingly
bright, lensed in iridescent yellows and grungy grim tones. It lacks
the scope of a Gladiator or a Kingdom of Heaven, instead acting as a
somehow intimate, character-driven (or perhaps "dialogue-driven" is
better) tale. It is, one could say, Ridley Scott's first fable (yes,
Legend notwithstanding). Allow me to explain. The story, like most McCarthy tales, is simple: a
nameless lawyer (Fassbender), madly in love with his fiancée Laura
(Cruz) and seeking to provide for her and give her the life she
deserves, decides to get in a once-and-I'm-out deal: namely, to get
involved in a venture dealing with twenty million dollars worth of
drugs being ferried to the States from Mexico. The counselor's
associates in this job are the flamboyant Reiner (Javier Bardem,
returning to McCarthy's bleak world yet again, though this time
sporting a Brian Grazer-esque hairdo instead of Chigurh's pageboy) and
middleman Westray (Brad Pitt, sporting a Tom Petty style), both of whom
warn the counselor that this deal will change his life in ways he
cannot fathom. The film also focuses on Reiner's Argentinean squeeze
Malkina, played by Cameron Diaz. Malkina is a glammed-up diva in the
Donatella Versace vein (comparable to Kristin Scott Thomas's equally
diva-like turn in Only God Forgives; they could be sisters), sporting a
cheetah-spot design tattooed to her throat and a felicitous feline
sneer everywhere she turns (she even owns a pair of cheetahs that she
sics on desert jackrabbits for her and Reiner's amusement). Of course, as is wont to happen in McCarthy's world, something goes
wrong, sh_t hits the fan, and the lives of every character hangs in the
balance. Characters are sliced, diced, shot and (in one gruesome
instance) subject to a weapon of grim ingenuity that involves a motor,
a loop of unbreakable wire, and a jetting gout of blood. Yet the film
also brings levity to it in spades, to the point that The Counselor
could almost be considered a black comedy. Much of the film's action is
"interaction," as the counselor deals with the other characters that
warn, judge, and even blame him for the capricious trick of fate that
has sealed their own. McCarthy's penchant for cipher-like monologues is
in full play here, and it can bog down an unwary traveler. That said,
for all of its deep soliloquies and terse warnings, the film is not
indecipherable, and at times McCarthy's caustic wit comes across
brilliantly. Scott and McCarthy manage to coax some pretty impressive work from
their cadre. Michael Fassbender, whose character is himself little more
than an archetype (the "good man who f_cks up once and pays for it
dearly"), is actually quite good here, and I'm probably in the minority
when I say that I prefer his turn here over his acclaimed performance
in Shame (a film I respect but have little affection for). Cruz makes
the most of a rather lightweight part, and even though her character
exists as little more than an ideal, it still works. Bardem is, for
once, the comic relief, playing an entrancingly funny motormouth who is
the polar opposite of his last McCarthy character. He is the one who
has the most fun with the dialogue and despite English being his second
language, he nails Cormac's every nuance. Pitt's Westray is laid-back
yet high-strung, and seems an easy fit for the actor, giving every line
a wry twist. But the true revelation is Diaz's against-type turn. She
is the character audiences will remember most of all, and not just
because of her fornication with a Bentley (it makes sense in context .
. . I think). There is a hard, wicked steel in her performance, almost
predatory. There are other memorable turns, like Ruben Blades's
one-scene wonder and even Dean Norris of Breaking Bad fame, that make
this a truly sumptuous ensemble. The Counselor is not an easy watch, both because of its violence and
because Scott and McCarthy (I have to credit both men; it feels like
such a collaborative creative effort) don't dumb it down. It's a simple
story, but it's also one that feels like Scott's most mature work. It
isn't without its flaws (certain scenes run on a bit long, while others
feel a bit short-changed), but The Counselor results in a perverse
viewing that is, in a word, unforgettable.
