1
Vile piece of trash

It is Thomas' 17th birthday. His parents are going away for the
weekend, admonishing him not to touch Dad's car, make sure Dad's office
is locked, etc. etc. etc. All the time, Thomas' "hilarious" friend
Costa (performed extremely well by Oliver Cooper) is pushing pushing
pushing for Thomas to host an insane party to boost their credibility,
his other "hilarious" friend (the obligatory fat one) is hanging
around, and the entire proceedings are being filmed on an enormous
hi-def video camera by a fourth kid who no-one notices. And, of course,
hundreds of people turn up leading to the house being trashed (burnt,
car in the swimming pool, riot police, trees in the street on fire,
press helicopters etc.) Perhaps this is funny if you are a teenager.
Personally, I found the Costa character (effectively Jonah Hill's
character in Superbad only immensely more offensive, and the driving
force in the events which destroy his friend's house) the most
repellent character I have ever seen on screen outside monsters like
Uday Hussein. It isn't so much that things get out of hand (although
they do), it is more that Costa is pushing pushing pushing all the time
with a total lack of respect for other people's hard-earned belongings
or for their desperately needed peace and quiet.At the end, after everything has gone horribly (and predictably) wrong,
even Thomas' Dad, while watching his car being hauled from the pool and
explaining that the cost of the damage will consume Thomas' college
fund, shows that he is impressed by the turnout to the party and, back
at school, Thomas' star is in the ascendant.The message underlying this film is that it really doesn't matter what
damage you cause, or how badly you screw up your own, and others'
lives, as long as you come out of it cool and, as a parent who has had
occasion to be dismayed at the lack of respect shown to my home by
guests of my teenage offspring, I think it is a disgraceful message to
purvey.I thought that this was a deeply unpleasant film with a truly horrible
central character (portrayed as someone to be admired), selling a
perverse life lesson under the guise of comedy, which it wasn't. And
the hand held subjective camera footage is getting terribly old now.It is interesting to note from IMDb's user votes that this film has
scored highly with the youngsters who would be the target for such
parties, and badly with the older generations whose homes and lives and
years of work would be what ends up trashed without remorse. I also
read many comments along the lines of "Wow! I wish I could go to a
party like that right now!" And I despair somewhat.This film has absolutely nothing in it, apart from some singularly
unerotic breasts, to justify watching it. I hope those responsible for
putting it on the screen never work in films again.
