9
Outrageous this only has 5.7 rating, brilliant horror.

I have recently gone through a phase of watching a few horror movies
that I never got around to watching, which includes Insidious 1 and the
Conjuring.I am lost for words how anyone can rate Insidious as a brilliant horror
movie, I guess it is a sign of the times that putting excruciatingly
loud noises when something supposedly scary is on the screen into a
film means it is terrifying. That is Insidious all the way through, it
is not scary at all, it is a cheap and pathetic trick to scare the
audience, you watch those scenes without the sound and they are
laughable, Insidious is a joke film yet scores so highly on here
because loud noises scare people.I thought the Conjuring was much better than Insidious but still both
do not come close to Annabelle. John Leonetti did a better job with
this film than James Wan could ever have dreamed of doing.The tension created without the need for outrageously loud bangs sets
this film apart from all the tiresome and clichéd films that have come
out recently. The sewing machine scenes, the oven scene and the lift
scene alone created more tension and horror than any loud noise can
create, it was executed perfectly. Even the scenes where nothing
happened but you were expecting them to were done perfectly. Sure the film isn't perfect, but as a horror it is beautifully paced
and the tension is built up brilliantly. It is easily one of the better
horror movies I have seen in the last 5 years. I do not usually watch
lots of American horror films because I find them all very similar,
similar stories, similar scare tactics so I tend to watch more Korean,
Japanese and French horrors but I was pleasantly and massively
surprised with how well this movie was done.I would highly recommend this movie to anyone and I put it way above
the horror movie comparisons on here such as Insidious and Conjuring,
its not even close, this is way better. The fact this film has such a
low score really says to me either there is something really dodgy
going on with IMDb film ratings or people really do have no taste in
real horror movies only the cheesy and ridiculous loud noise/cheap
scare ones that are in abundance these days.
