8
"The Croods" Review

"The Croods" has a simple story about old vs. new and family. The
family must move when disaster strikes and learn to adapt to new ways
of doing things. Resistant at first, they meet a boy named Guy, who
helps them rediscover the ever changing world. The film tells us to
embrace new things with open arms and enjoy all the wonders life has to
offer. Not everything new is evil or makes you any less of a person
than your ancestors. Family is a pretty central part of the film as we
can see them bonding and doing a lot of things together.The film is a little light on heart and emotions, but more than makes
up for it with its unique sense of humor. The punches keep rolling with
slap stick, sight gags and jokes about cavemen and their primitive
ways. I was literally laughing from beginning to end. The sheer amount
of creativity in the film is commendable and I was constantly thinking
where do they come up with some of these ideas.Chris Sanders and Kirk De Micco do a pretty good job of directing the
film. They give a good amount of attention to the family and each
individual character. I really like how certain things introduced
earlier in the film serve a purpose later on. If any animated movie
ever deserved to get nominated at The Oscars for Cinematography, it
would be this one. The shots and angles are so unique and filled with
so much energy. The sweeping shots of the landscape and the skies are
beautiful to the eyes. The hunting scene early in the film is really
where most of this is apparent.The characters are good, especially Grug. He's funny and a really
devoted father, but incredibly stubborn. Nicolas Cage brings the right
amount of crazy caveman and caring father to his character. Emma Stone
as Eep is also a solid character. She's curious and her design is way
better than what the trailers make it out to be. I like how she isn't
the typical perfect figured woman. She has messed up teeth, she has a
full figure, and overall is not bounded by gender roles. The rest of
the cast is okay as they don't do much. The mom is kinda bland, Thunk
and Gran provide some of the comic relief, and Guy is just the cool kid
that has the crazy new ideas that shake up the family.The animation is quite gorgeous especially the hand-drawn opening
sequence. The desert scenes are desolate and feel very isolated. A
great juxtapose to it are the lush and vibrant forest locations. The
directors do a lot visually with the film and make everything the
characters see feel new to us as well. When they see stars for the
first time, it really feels like you're really seeing stars for the
first time. The character designs are unique and highly creative. Every
creature is completely new and never before seen. Score for this film
is actually quite good. It feels very prehistoric, but with a modern
flare. It gets really exciting and emotional when the film takes a
slight dramatic turn.Overall "The Croods" is a pretty good film. It has probably the best
cinematography I've ever seen in an animated feature. It's highly
creative, and the animation is quite beautiful. The main characters are
well rounded and the side characters serve their purpose. The story is
a little simple and lacks an emotional punch, well at least until the
end, but it is effective. Humor is top notch and will keep you laughing
all the way through. I give it 4/5, creative, hilarious, and a fun time
for families of all ages.
