8
An over-blown action film that continues to build on the franchise's success.

"This time it ain't just about being fast."James Wan, who is well known for directing horror films (The Conjuring
and Saw), took over the seventh film in this franchise replacing Justin
Lin who had been sitting on the director's chair since the third
installment. What I found most interesting about this franchise is that
it didn't seem like it was going anywhere after its solid debut in 2001
since the first couple of sequels focused on different characters and
story lines. Even when they got the entire cast back together in 2009
for the fourth film I didn't feel like it was anything special. I'd
always mildly enjoyed the films, but it wasn't until Fast Five that I
was really engaged with the series. Justin Lin may have not impressed
me before, but when that film came out he decided to have fun with the
overblown action scenes and audiences embraced it completely. We had
the team reuniting together being chased by tanks and planes and
pulling off nearly mission impossible tasks. My greatest concern for
this film was that Wan wouldn't follow that basic formula that had
elevated the franchise in the first place. But in an early scene in the
film those fears were soon gone when Wan practically gives the audience
a wink by having Brian (Walker) telling his son that "cars don't fly"
when he playfully throws a small toy car through the window. We were
about to find out that that claim wasn't necessarily true because
throughout this film we actually see several cars fly during the
spectacular action scenes. By the end of Furious Six the franchise was tied perfectly together by
uniting the events that took place in Tokyo during the third film with
the present. In the fifth and sixth installments Toretto (Vin Diesel),
Brian (Paul Walker), Tej (Ludacirs), and Roman (Tyrese Gibson) had
finally found financial stability and cleaned their names to return
home. The character of Agent Hobbs (Dwayne Johnson) had helped
reinvigorate the franchise and Letty (Michelle Rodriguez) was brought
back from the dead (well actually she never really died, but fans of
the franchise know what I mean). Mia (Jordan Brewster) and Brian were
enjoying their newfound family life, but as we found out in the end of
the sixth film, Owen's brother Deckard (Jason Statham) was set on
avenging him. Their seemingly peaceful life is interrupted as the team
begins to be hunted down by this dangerous British criminal. Loretto is
offered the opportunity to flip the papers on Deckard from being hunted
to becoming the hunters when a secret government official known as Mr.
Nobody (Kurt Russell) offers him a deal. A Somalian mercenary (Djimon
Hounsou) has kidnapped a hacker known as Ramsey (Nathalie Emmanuel) who
has developed a computer program known as God's Eye that basically
allows you to find anyone across the globe in a matter of seconds. If
Toretto's team can rescue Ramsey and retrieve God's Eye he will let
them use it to track down Deckard and catch him off guard. And so the
adventure across the globe begins with flying cars, helicopters and
droids exploding across the mountains of the Middle East, the elegant
buildings in Abu Dhabi, and the city of Los Angeles. Gisele and Han were part of the reason why I enjoyed the previous films
so much so I was worried that their absence in this film would hurt the
movie, but the addition of Jason Statham as the main villain of the
film elevated this to a higher level. There are great fight scenes
between him and Dwayne Johnson and then with Vin Diesel that were
incredibly entertaining. These are probably the best action stars of
our generation and when the fighting choreography is filmed correctly
you can't go wrong with these guys. There are also some fantastic
action scenes involving fast car chases across a gorgeous mountain that
ends in a Jurassic Park like cliffhanger. The action scenes are
overblown, but that is what makes them so entertaining once you learn
to accept the absurdity of it all and simply enjoy the ride.
Over-the-top action scenes is what elevated this franchise in the first
place and Furious 7 continues to play with that same premise taking
advantage of Wan's knowledgeable work behind the camera and his use of
different camera angles which makes the film look all the more
entertaining. The greatest success of Furious 7 is being able to blend the incredibly
fun action scenes with the dramatic elements involving the chemistry
between the characters. We've grown to love these characters and each
new addition always seems to work. Furious 7 takes some common themes
from films like Mission Impossible or Ocean's Eleven and applies them
really well here. Tyrese Gibson plays a similar character to the one
Matt Damon played in Ocean's where he wants to prove his leadership
qualities to the rest of the crew. There are elements recycled from
other action films, but thanks to the cast it works extremely well in
this franchise. And then you have the emotional aspect of this film
surrounding Paul Walker's untimely death. You can't help but feel
emotionally engaged towards his character knowing that the actor has
recently passed away. There are several scenes of his face where the
CGI seems evident, but the voice work was perfectly executed. The CGI
never distracted me however, and I'm glad they decided to continue with
the production of the film. The last five minutes are emotionally
engaging and without spoiling the film all I can say is that the crew
did him justice with a beautiful tribute. Furious 7 continues to build
on an already engrossing franchise and it might just be my second
favorite after Fast Five. http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/
