1
lousy script, horrible soundtrack and all too cliché

I decided to watch this Disney's movie for it seems to have an original
scenario with a mesmerizing visual. It is a beautiful movie to watch
and quite entertaining for the first 30 minutes. But then it ceased to
be watchable with all the old clichés recycled by Disney, not to
mention the horrible soundtrack.It is no doubt an allegory of the modern world, the all too American
city with an all too American dream, struggling to deal with its own
diversity. Only, in this scenario, the diversity is oversimplified for
the benefit of young minds: there are predators and there are preys.
Predators traditionally eat preys, we get that. Somehow the civilized
world infused with an American dream "Yes, we can." has tamed all the
individuals within the predatory species. There's still crime, though,
that's why Bunny needs to become a police officer.An ode to tolerance and respect of diversity gone terribly wrong: we
learn that being bad has nothing to do with your DNA, nor the fact of
being good has anything to do with your upbringing or experience. Then
we have to agree that to make the world a better place we need to
accept that status quo while trying as hard as one could to succeed
within that frame. Fighting for the weak 99%, we have to accept that
the 1% is not inherently bad. Oh wait, who is this 1% ? They're the powerful (lion mayor), but also
the prejudiced (foxes). They're the privileged, but also the criminals.
On the other hand, preys are all underprivileged and struggling to gain
some power; they are nevertheless the ones to whom the message is
directed: prejudices come from them too and THAT could make everyone
worse off.Predators do not have to work for a better world, all they have to do
is to accept that preys could do things, too, only preys have to
succeed far better than any predator ever could given the same
circumstances or the same DNA...It makes me want to reply to that: We need to acknowledge the elephant
in the room.
