8
Endless Wonders

Rise of the Guardians has a lovely concept about these imaginary
childhood legends. It tells a fascinating new mythology about them. It
sets out to be highly imaginative and thoroughly heartfelt. With these
people making this film, there is no surprise that they succeeded to
execute those ambitions. Though, the storytelling is a bit messy with
endless action set pieces. Despite of those flaws, it's still
whimsically magical and heartwarming.The story centers a childhood guardian, Jack Frost. Among the
guardians, he's the least known and believed by the children. It's
pretty interesting since most of us only know very little about him, we
intend to intrigue about his story. When it goes to the famous legends,
it gets bigger and quicker with plenty of humor. The film is also an
action movie. The action scenes are amazingly done and eye candy, but
they somehow get excessive causing a bit mess to the storyline. It's
charming when they go to their relationship with the children, and it's
appealing when it explores to their worlds.The characters are wonderful enough. The voice performances are great.
Chris Pine's performance is charming enough to keep Jack Frost pretty
endearing. Alec Baldwin brings plenty of joy to his character. Hugh
Jackman uses his Australian accent to the Easter Bunny which really
fits to the character. The rest are expectedly delightful.The visuals are undeniably astonishing. Every scene of the film is
spectacular and beautiful to look at, making the experience very
magical. The 3D enhances the experience more or less. The character
designs are inspired. I bet many would love the Sandman's that looks so
lovable. And the music score adds sweetness to the sequences.Rise of the Guardians is a little bit disappointing but also a bit
satisfying. It has the heart in a right amount but only the half of the
film. The rest is all action and having fun, but it's not a bad thing.
They just could have moderated the craziness and get a bit of focus to
the storyline. The film is still worth watching. It can be a classic if
it has a better storytelling but if you don't care then that won't be a
problem. Overall, it's filled with excitement and beautiful animation.
Rise of the Guardians can be considered one of the great films of the
year.
