10
Extremely touching film infinitely awesome!

The biggest issue with this movie, I would have to admittedly say, is
the fact that is such an underrated film. Not to say anything against
Best Picture nominee, Silver Linings Playbooks, but I would myself
place an Oscar nomination for The Perks of Being a Wallflower over SLP
for a Best Picture nomination. That being said, let the review be
underway A young and troubled freshman by the name of Charlie (Logan
Lerman) attempts to make his way through high school and gain friends
as he falls in love with Sam (Emma Watson) The story is definitely
based off Steven Chbosky's novel which he writes and directs in this
case. Normally, having the author of a book direct a film can often
come out horrible as a reader's interpretation is completely different
from a film director's. Also, a book must be structured and paced
differently to that of a film and in most cases, an author directing a
film would more so attempt to direct it like a film. It's not the case
here, thankfully! The direction in this film is definitely marvellous
and the way the characters were presented is truly fantastic. Having
never read the book myself, I was almost immediately fascinated by the
film and a while into the film, I knew I would love it. Despite only
reaching a 100 minute run time, I would personally have loved the film
to be another half hour longer.The film is a truly moving one and is not an average popcorn flick.
Very powerful emotionally, at least for someone like me, who has
experienced a similar life to that of Charlie, it can definitely be
hard to re-watch this film, despite its complete brilliance.With good performances throughout, from Logan Lerman to Emma Watson,
this film adds further credibility. If I were to pick a fault with this
film, I'd really have a tough time sitting through thinking but
perhaps, if a few characters, mainly Mary and Sam were elaborated a bit
more, there may have been a bit more of an emotional connection but for
Sam, it doesn't tend to matter much as her character is a likable one
and the screen time she has is relatively long.In a year that saw the releases of films like Django Unchained, The
Hobbit, Skyfall, The Dark Knight Rises, The Avengers and Looper, I
myself would personally rank it above all those great films of the year
except for my personal favourite Django Unchained.Fantastic direction, excellent writing and an excellent knowledge of
book to movie adaptations from the book's very author, The Perks of
Being a Wallflower is a brilliantly acted story and is emotionally
powerful yet displays elements of other films. A fantastic film, a near
masterpiece of the decade. One of the most underrated films of this new
decade.
