8
'Twas the night Krampus entered my life and surprised me tonight!

The Cinematic Mind reviews Krampus (Dougherty, USA, 2015) ****/*****A few days before Christmas, we meet a dysfunctional family who are not
getting on very well. A young boy (Emjay Anthony) loses the hope and
spirit of Christmas because the holidays aren't the same as they used
to be with his family and proceeds to destroys a letter he wrote to
Santa Claus triggering the release of a massive blizzard and the
summoning of the titular Christmas folklore demon who strikes against
the family and it isn't alone.From 2007's Trick 'r Treat director and screenwriter Michael Dougherty,
this is the second holiday themed horror film he has done. This sub-
genre is known as the X-MAS Horror! For me, they are very mixed-bag for
me! My favourite would easily be Black Christmas (1974) in my life as
one of cinema's most underrated slashers of the 1970's with one of the
most bone chilling endings in a horror film and Gremlins, enough said.
Others include The Nightmare Before Christmas, Christmas Evil and
Silent Night Deadly Night (I consider it a little overrated). The
potential is huge but also can be a task to handle. However, this is
movie besides Rare Exports: A Christmas Tale are the greatest modern
X-MAS horror films of recent times considering I was making fun of the
title alone and thought it would be TV movie quality. The results
altered once the film began.The setup is a brilliant throwback to the stereotypical mean-spirited
family from Christmas Vacation and Home Alone and a great satire on
consumerism taking over the holidays with a riot at a Shopping Mall
with "It's Beginning To Look A Lot Like Christmas" by Bing Crosby in
the background. Ahh! The lost of being vintage and nostalgic. I call
glorious irony.The acting is surprisingly strong. Adam Scott as the classic
overworking father, Toni Collette as the anguish wife and David
Koechner as the overbearing mean spirited uncle who provide great
conflict in a dysfunctional nightmare at each other. Even the child
performances not once cringe me at all! Once the characters start to
realise what the following events are taking place and coming to learn
lessons about the actual meaning of Christmas, I quote I dropped in
awe. A celebration gift to all the memorable horror films and Christmas
horror films of the 80's/90's.From Gremlins, The Evil Dead to Poltergeist, Nightmare Before Christmas
and one of my favourite scenes, a homage to Rankin/Bass with a
back-story of Krampus presented in animation. The comedy is hilariously
quotable. Mainly from the cynical drunk great aunt played by Conchata
Ferrell. However, it never ruins the thrills of the suspense and
creativity of the creatures the film thrown at us. For my universal
acclaim, the production design, the music score by composer Douglas
Pipes and the practical effects of Krampus and the minions brings to
life the dark corners of Christmas in a way I wanted to experience.
From the vintage jingles to the chilling suspense pieces. This is an
example of me wanting to check out the art of Krampus and resulting in
myself in collapsing all over the designs. They took the budget of $15
million and the crew carry out this stimulating picture given on what
they had on their shoulders.However, why do I did prefer Trick 'r Treat still more? Simple! The
execution wasn't fully there. Krampus felt underused at times! When
Krampus is in it, my mind is blown away in excitement, I wanted to
discover the hellish nightmare of Krampus. There might had been a
little too much of the minion/toys more than Krampus. There needed to
be more set pieces with the character without this disjointed middle.
Also, the ending nearly irritated me as it nearly involved one of my
most hated cliques in horror history until the rest of the ending
happened, it at least never destroyed the ending with the message of
the film and what it turns out to be. I wanted a little more than that
because I felt it could had a longer runtime. It breathe a sequel that
could happen.Still, I'll consider this during a time where most expensive Horror
films are underwhelming unintentional comedies with ugly third rate
CGI, Dougherty and his crew decided to continue the practical dream to
us Horror fans and brought us a dark and fun early Christmas gift! In
conclusion, 'Twas the night Krampus entered my life and surprised me
tonight! Merry Christmas and let's hope the force would awake and rise.
Tell me what you think of my review.
