5
Horror or propaganda?

After a band of inbred cannibals abducts his wife from a sleepy town on
the Wild West frontier, an injured man joins a rag tag posse as it
mounts a rescue mission in the wilderness.Hmmm. Very watchable, but so confused. Opening scene has a vicious
slaughter that promises extreme horror. Then we're introduced to the
townsfolk, but the dialogue is self-consciously formal - although
without pompous speeches to slow the pace - and yet the characters are
endearing and well played by the actors. But still there's an overall
feel of prejudice and that what we're seeing is a cartoon story that
doesn't bother with credible motivations. I dunno - guess I'll have to
watch it again and see if it settles in for me.Huge run time, and it's obvious that although nobody talks at length
many scenes could have been tightened up without losing the charm of
the dialogue. Many implausibilities - why was the wife abducted, why is
the journey five days, why is the hero carrying such a serious injury
so impossibly, why is the cannibal chewing on an uncooked leg like a
chicken drumstick? The big problem is there's hardly any myth created
for the baddies, and when we get to them they're almost as simplistic
as those mud people who used to emerge from the walls in the old Flash
Gordon TV episodes. There's an interesting plot point to do with two
pregnant women, but it passes by almost without comment. At that point
the dialogue has lost its charm and the actors are having trouble
finishing the story with conviction.Another oddity is the music. It plays over the intro credits, then ...
nothing until a short burst of sorrowful violin at 45 mins, then ...
nothing until the end credits. And what we get is a strange song
written/performed by the director/writer that plainly presents a bit of
propaganda for pre-enlightenment virtue v savagery. Add in the earnest
nod to Christianity and the animal portrayal of the baddies (including
the ancient slur about troglodytes), and it leaves a bad taste.At least the disembowelling is good, but that and the opening slaughter
were the only bits of horror for me.Overall, interesting characters well performed, but needed to be clear
about the threat.
