9
Possibly the best movie I've seen this year. I'm serious.

I saw this movie earlier today. Witnessing the critical and popular
dismissal leveled in some of these IMDb reviews compelled me to write
the adamantly positive review it deserves. First things first, let me
name the virtues of this film. The most plainly excellent detail is
that the plot is perfectly paced; in this respect it outdoes both
Bridesmaids and The Hangover, the two films most frequently compared to
it. The drama builds steadily and without halt for almost the entirety
of the movie.Bridesmaids relied too heavily on Kristen Wiig's (admittedly hilarious)
performance, while comparatively ignoring several other potentially
interesting characters. Dramatically, it lulled too often and relieved
too much focus from the impending wedding. The Hangover, while better
than Bridesmaids, lacked the impressive dramatic pacing and humane
camaraderie (as well as the outstanding cast) that bolsters
Bachelorette.Kirsten Dunst gave what may be (along with Melancholia) the performance
of her career- particularly throughout the sequence in which she
portrays a Regan who masterfully resists coming apart while
simultaneously saving two of her best friends from a wedding disaster
and a suicide attempt. It is no exaggeration to say that she exceeds
herself (and the genre) and overpowers the role.Lizzy Caplan and Isla Fisher play their roles ideally; while no match
for Dunst, they introduce the chaotic broil of f***-ups and sidesteps
that make this story both intently awful and irresistibly watchable.
Caplan reprises the role she perfected in Party Down as the depressing
but charming (and somewhat inaccessible) Casey, while Fisher brings the
burn-out/not-fade-away-energy she is known for (from Wedding Crashers)
to another level.Now to address the criticism of those who can't abide this movie. The
complaints tend to fall into two categories: of those who refuse to see
the redeeming value in a movie filled with such repugnant personalities
(and such small moralizing), and of those who believe the movie failed
its own dark comedy agenda by finishing with a predictable happy
ending. There is no point in addressing reviews that make both
complaints. Their contradictory desire for a movie that is ultimately
both redemptive and damning only shows that they are not able to
clearly formulate their thoughts or express themselves.The first category of complaints is eminently understandable.
Bachelorette often jokes with borderline offensive humor, and at times
the jokes cross the border into the realm of the seriously offensive.
Most of Trevor's (James Marsden's) commentary falls under this warning
label, as he spouts the pickup pseudo-psychology that is despairingly
commonplace among young men, shows indifference toward the prospect of
rape, and takes it for granted that women like being treated as
objects. Similarly does the recurring nickname "pig-face" for Rebel
Wilson's Becky, incite a knee-jerk reaction against the debased
characters in this movie. But we should not commit the fallacy that
congenial characters make a good movie, or that the words of the
characters are the ideology espoused by the movie. Ethically, I think
Bachelorette performs the critical function of revealing to us the
unpleasant aspects of our culture, and facing us with the surprisingly
difficult truth that our most serious problems are neither irresolvable
nor unfunny.The second category of complaints, those who did not find the film dark
enough, is easily addressed. Yes, I admit it has a happy ending. There
was a wedding, two of the three leads end up in relationships, the
transcendence of love is affirmed. But the only character who receives
a properly happy ending is Rebel Wilson's Becky, perhaps the least
important person in the film, more a plot device than a character. Gena
and Katie still have serious emotional issues to work over, and their
relationships are far from stable or long-lasting. And Regan is still
further from the ideal of marriage than she was in the beginning.In the film's final accounting, Regan empowers herself without jumping
through the relationship hoops that all romcom female leads are
traditionally subject to. Likewise, she avoids becoming a victim, a
soapbox, or a pretty face who is just glad things have settled down. In
a plain moralistic sense, the "best-behaved" characters all end up with
the best fates: Becky, the virtuous axis at the center of this
pandemonium, receives the perfect wedding; Gena and Katie fall into
stabilizing relationships, as unwitting in happiness as they were in
their depression; all while Regan, the wicked and energetic type-a core
of this ensemble, receives nothing, but instead actively attains her
own hope for redemption (which comes without a man attached).This won't be a popular opinion, but I think this film is among the
best of 2012, and I believe Kirsten Dunst's performance is
Oscar-worthy. I think Leslye Headland, Dunst, Caplan, Fisher, and their
cinematographer all deserve recognition for producing this illuminating
and entertaining picture.Having said all this, I would not recommend the movie to my parents.
Please do your research if you are easily offended. But those
acclimated to the Apatow brand of domestic gross-out comedy will not
find anything here out of place, only better executed. If you have a
stomach for raunch, and can deal with beautiful women portraying
intelligently-written characters, please see this movie. It will
delight you.
