1
Huge LOTR fan and very disappointed

Peter Jackson's return to the world of Tolkien is rather weak. At first
I was against the idea of such a small book being made into a trilogy.
I still am. Many say not to compare this film to the far superior "Lord
of the Rings" trilogy. Well, it's hard not to considering Jackson has
tried so hard to recreate the style of the original films because
that's what the audience wants. But he fails big time.The bizarre, unfunny, slapstick humor is painful. This involves snot
jokes, burping, poop hair, and lame one-liners. Don't give me the "it's
based on a children's book" crap. Sure, the source material was written
for children but I'm talking about the movie. Adding all this stupid
humor really messes with the tone; it doesn't feel like it belongs in
the LOTR universe which "The Hobbit" is trying so hard replicate. The
film will go from trying to be epic to pathetic gags. It doesn't work.
I don't mind a little humor occasionally but this is just overdone and
it makes the film feel very unbalanced.Now to the pacing. Many say the beginning is slow but they're wrong.
The entire film is slow! Radagast's involvement is pointless and his
bunny sled is ridiculous. We also get to see Saruman and Galadriel in a
boring scene that has absolutely no relevance to the main narrative.
Wait, what exactly is "The Hobbit" about again? Apparently Jackson is
trying to make connections with LOTR, but "Fellowship of the Ring"
already explains past events pretty well. Seriously, all the LOTR
fanboy pleasing scenes could have been left out (including Frodo). But
no, we need them in order to have enough material for the trilogy. Not
good.And I understand that Jackson is taking material from the appendices of
LOTR. I wouldn't have a problem with this if all these extra scenes
actually advanced the plot. But the White Council just talks and they
never decide to act on anything. Also, that scene has NOTHING to do
with the dwarfs reclaiming their homeland. At least in "Fellowship" the
plot makes major advancements but in "The Hobbit" the story hardly goes
anywhere.Let's discuss the action. It's like watching a video game. The main orc
villain, Azog, looks fake. Everything is CGI overload; there's no
tension. Characters survive unbelievable situations. Compare the ending
orc scene in this film to the one in "Fellowship." Huge difference.
Unfortunately everything in "The Hobbit" is cartoonish. Not to mention
most of the action has no impact on the story whatsoever.Now to the characters. Gandalf is great but that is to be expected.
Martin Freeman does fine as Bilbo but his transition from weakling to
hero happens a little too quickly and feels unrealistic. Thorin is your
typical warrior like character; I didn't care for him too much. Bifur
is probably my favorite of all the dwarfs (hold on, I just searched his
name and realized I got the wrong one, his name is BOFUR, my bad). All
the other dwarfs are just there and if you were to ask me to name them
and describe something about their character, I couldn't do it. And I'm
sure you couldn't either.But the film does have some good. We get to see Bilbo and Gollum
interact in an iconic scene. The finding of the Ring is also
significant and is really the only scene that should have any
connection with LOTR unlike Galadriel, Frodo, etc. And that's about it.
Honestly, nothing really happens. While watching "The Hobbit" you kind
of forget about the main adventure because of all the padding. Then at
the end you're like, "Oh yeah, there's a dragon." Maybe the second film
will improve.It's such a shame that "The Hobbit" ended up being a drawn-out,
bloated, boring mess that lacks compelling characters and an engaging
story. I really wanted to love it but it's hard not to ignore the many
problems. I couldn't wait to return to Middle-earth but now I'm not
sure if I want to go back to this new cartoon version. Hopefully
improvements will be made in the sequels but after witnessing this my
hopes aren't too high. All these years of anticipation and this is what
we get...*IMDb auto corrects the plural word for "dwarf" when it really should
be dwar(ves)
