6
Strong Performance by Seyfried

Gone proved to be a much different movie from what the trailer
indicated. Under the veil of a cliché game of cat and mouse, Amanda
Seyfried pulls of an incredibly difficult role by riding the line
between insane and driven. The movie puts its entire success on keeping
the audience guessing whether this could "all be in her head" or really
is part of a sick plot. It succeeds in doing so on the shoulders of
Amanda Seyfried.Unfortunately, Gone built its own wall on the road to greatness. By
keeping you guessing, the writer throws plenty of false hints and
possible suspects. By doing so, the movie takes on the feel of the
worn-out Hollywood thriller. Although this move may have been
necessary, it means other aspects of the plot are seriously lacking.
Characters are completely forgotten. The climax relies on a timed event
that could not be planed. In the end, this thriller lacks all the
elements to make it memorable.Despite missing its mark, Gone is completely enjoyable. In many movies,
I find myself evaluating the movie halfway through. That never
happened. The tension maintained itself through the entirety of the
movie. I found myself holding my breath, sitting on the edge of my
seat, and wanting to scream, "Don't go in there!" This is how a
thriller should work. I wish the amateur mistakes could have been
removed. If that were done, this movie could have been great.I must point out the politics of the movie. It was believable on most
levels. The movie is set on the basis that a girl who has experience
with PychCare will usually be treated like she is insane. This idea is
done very well. The investigators do give her the time of day, but
still appear to brush her off. As the movie progresses, it is
fascinating to watch the investigators grow more worried about Seyfried
with a gun rather than a missing girl. In the end, it is quite
believable.If you are in need of a good thriller, this is the movie to see. It
stumbles, but will keep you guessing. There is no great advancements
made in the genre, but that does not mean it is not worth seeing. When
you put an actress in the lead who can keep you guessing, you will
usually have a good thriller. Congratulations to Amanda Seyfried for
getting out of her shitty movie slump. reillyreviews.wordpress.com
