10
Masterclass Cinema

This is hands down the most perfect film I have seen so far this year.
I gave a score of 5/5 to movies like The Revenant, Spotlight and The
Songs We Sang. But even with these excellent films I can always find a
spot that doesn't quite sit right with me. With The Handmaiden, it is
perfect; every frame handcrafted to perfection. Even with 4min of
explicit sex taken away by my country's dumb censors, this is still
perfect every way I see it. Auteur Park Chan-Wook's The Handmaiden is a superb exercise in form,
structure and tone. With the latter, Park (Oldboy & Joint Security
Area) has achieved something extraordinary. If any scene were to linger
a few seconds longer or he had decided to focus on a certain issue, the
film would have veered off to a different territory. As it is, and with
all the major characters' kooky off-kilter portrayals, I can't pinpoint
whether I was watching something real or abstract. I was also kept in
awe by the intricate and resplendent set- design which suggests
something dark and Gothic is working the undercurrents. There are of
course some serious girl on girl action but that never encroaches into
the spine of the story. Adapting Sarah Waters' Fingersmith, a Victorian tale awash with all
manner of Dickensian motifs, Park spins an engrossing tale that ebbs
and flows with a Hitchcockian suspense; it withholds as much as it
discloses; it is an erotic tale that beats with raw fervour. It is at
once a love story but also a menagerie showcasing human beings in their
vilest forms. Park's finger hovers over all the buttons, teasing us
gleefully but it is with the ultimate restraint that he never descends
down to the usual tropes. The story is divided into three chapters;
each told from a different character's perspective. The structure is
Rashomon-esque but Park puts his own stamp on it. The film may be
nearly 2.5 hours but I hardly moved in my seat; my senses kept
spellbound as each twist hits me hard. When it ended I couldn't believe
2.5 hours have whizzed by. The plot is pulsating and it never lets up.
There is even an octopus in it! This is definitely the most perfect
film I have seen this year. You may not agree with me but for me this
is cinema of the masterclass level. It's sexy time!
