6
Where No Man Has Gone Before

It's very rare in 2017 Hollywood that we get an epic like The Lost City
of Z. Albeit noticeably flawed in many aspects, this film hearkens back
to the days where exploration epics were a normalcy in the filmmaking
world. The strengths of The Lost City of Z lie with its unique journey the
protagonist takes, and not necessarily with the protagonist or the film
itself. What I mean by that is that I think the actual story the film
is based on is more interesting than how the film portrays it.
Sometimes biopics that span a great length of time are difficult to
effectively portray on the big screen. Because 'Z' takes place over the
course of roughly 20 years, it becomes increasingly tough to grapple
onto something worth enjoying. Every time one of his explorations seems
to get interesting, we get interrupted by his abrupt return to
civilization and more family drama. Whether or not that's how the true
story of Percy Fawcett went is irrelevant. Sometimes it takes some
tweaking to make for an entertaining feature length film.Charlie Hunnam plays Fawcett, an explorer who seeks glory in finding a
mysterious city of people which has "never been touched by a white
man". Fawcett himself is an interesting character, especially when the
film dives into his own psychology and obsession over 'Z'. He's a lot
like Matthew McConaughey's character from Interstellar, always
searching for something nobody has seen before even if means leaving
his family for years at a time. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why
Fawcett isn't very likable. We constantly see him leave his family even
though, with the exception of war, he has a choice in the matter.There is something to admire about someone, or in this case multiple
people, who keep searching for the dreams no matter the cost. Fawcett,
along with a few consistent compadres, go on dangerous expeditions
through the jungle to find what they think is a real lost city. The
aspects of the film I enjoy the most are watching men go through
hardships in search of something they truly care about. In this regard,
the film is a fascinating exploration physically and mentally.Aside from Hunnam, there are a few great performances from Sienna
Miller as Nina Fawcett, Robert Pattinson as Henry Costin, and Tom
Holland as Jack Fawcett. All elevating each scene they are in and
making the journey worth it for sure. There's a lot this film does
well, including making a lasting impact on viewers minds in terms of
exploration, but the writing can be a little bit more polished with
certain changes made to fit a movie and not just serve the story
properly. There's a happy medium there that I think could have
benefited the final product.+The Story+Brings back a lost genre-Uncharismatic characters-Uneven script6.7/10
