1
Panders to the lowest common denominator

The only reason I got to the end of this stinker of a movie is that I
paid money for it. I thought the premise for it was alright - 3 longtime friends go out on
the town for their last Christmas together. As it turns out, each of
them is dealing with a personal issue. One is going to be a father and
is afraid he's not prepared. One is a professional athlete who is using
steroids to stay in the game. The third is making excuses for why his
life is going nowhere. Then, it gets really, really stupid. Isaac's wife gives him a box of
street drugs for Christmas and he takes all of them. Instead of dying
of an overdose, he throws up, bleeds into a woman's drink, and
generally goes around being gross. This is, believe it or not, one of
the main punch lines of the movie.Drugs are so prevalent in this movie, they are practically a character
of their own. There is a superficial attempt to draw on Dickens'
"Christmas Carol" by calling their dope dealer the Spirit of Christmas
Present, and drug-taking in general is made out to be synonymous with
partying and friendship. Even the fabulous party they finally get to
after years of trying literally has a bowl of drugs on the table. And
yet, for some reason, their athlete buddy is called out and shamed for
taking steroids. I don't get that steroid use is so horrible when
everyone else is taking cocaine, dope, mushrooms, and every other drug
they can find.I also disliked the fact that nobody in this movie could actually
explain anything or say anything adult. Isaac's wife says to him that
she is a "f*cking piece of sh*t". As it turns out, she means that she
fears she might not be a good mother. What happened to "I'm worried" or
"I feel unprepared"? Why can't anyone actually articulate anything
beyond the most basic grunting sounds? These are meant to be educated
people (Isaac is a lawyer) and yet they all speak like 14-year-olds who
think it's cool to swear when their parents aren't around. At the end of this movie, I just felt depressed. I feel sorry for
anyone whose life is anything like these pointless characters, and
anyone who thinks that the "partying" portrayed in this movie is even
remotely fun.There was no real plot to this movie. The characters are flat and
uninteresting, and don't actually learn anything or develop, despite
the premise of the movie. The humour is beyond juvenile. Conclusion: a
complete waste of time.
