1
Fear is a choice...so is making films like AFTER EARTH

Apparently, 130 million dollars was burned through to achieve this. I
can only imagine the studio must have insured it for a billion in order
to make a huge claim. It has to be a scam. I can discern no other
explanation for it. I am a firm believer that hardly anyone would
deliberately set out to make a bad movie. But...to green light a
project that was clearly potentially financial and definitely artistic
suicide from the outset is either unparallelled lunacy or a caper of
some sort. Evidence being that the script alone could not have been any
more of a monolithic flop indicator if it came with giant neon signs
spelling out M-E-G-A T-U-R-K-E-Y in flashing twelve-foot high letters.At this point I'm not going to go into the plot in any depth but I am
going to raise the issue of the atrocious acting from both father and
son. Papa Smith needs to drop the kid. I mean, I know blood is thicker
than water and all, but this child is never going to be an actor and
he's just going to stink up any project he's ever involved in. Yes, I
know, I know it's really hard for any parent to accept that their child
is truly useless at something as easy as a running and jumping game of
pretend in front of a green screen, but we all have to face facts. Kid
is a dead loss. Find him another career or just pay him to stay at home
or, maybe even let him find his own way in the world. He has no acting
talent whatsoever. Accept it, get over it and move on.The same might soon be said for Papa Smith if he can't turn in
something better than this these days. He played his role with all the
animation, charisma, presence and dramatic expression of a plank of
balsa. I accept that he was portraying someone who is an expert at
controlling their emotions, but he achieved the nigh-on impossible feat
of making Keanu Reeve's moribund turn in THE DAY MY FACE STOOD STILL
seem a master-class example of the thespian art. Smith senior stares
intensely into the camera a lot, grunts and puffs a bit when his legs
are broken and goes to sleep every so often then wakes up again looking
a bit groggy. All the time those trademark jug-ears make him look like
an Easter Island head with satellite dishes on either side. Smith
Junior, meanwhile, has his stunt double run and jump about the place
until he gets a close-up wherein he wildly furrows his brow, loses
control of his jaw, pops his eyes and telegraphs episodes of
respiratory failure with all the conviction of a burned-out porn star
simulating an orgasm. Both father and son should pause for thought and
take stock.Here's another thing – career moves born out of personal obsessions are
sometimes not the way to go. I get that certain Hollywood types feel
the need to voraciously ram their pretentious hobbies and
eccentricities into the eager faces of their audiences, but just go
make an advert or take out a page in a paper if you feel the need.
Frittering away 130 mil on an extended propaganda piece for your
favourite sci-fi mock-religious cult baloney is nothing short of
obscene. Travolta had a shot at it and bombed. Smith's attempt may make
back some of the dough, but even so it's truly awful cinema. Should
Cruise ever step up to the plate marked "Egocentric Vanity Jerk" I
expect the results to be pretty much the same.Performances aside, along with the Scientology mumbo-jumbo, if the film
had been any good I would be much more forgiving. But it's a
predictable CGI drag from beginning to end that boringly rehashes some
sci-fi iconography from other much more creatively original sources.
The core philosophy/message is the simplistic mantra of "you have
nothing to fear but fear itself." Whoo-hoo! Ya think?M. Knight Charlatan directs in a listless and linear way and the
narrative has no twists or turns – it just ploughs the same one-note
furrow from beginning to end. Some of the CG eye-candy grabs the
attention for brief periods, but it's mostly dull and drab. The
dialogue has no spark or life and consists of daisy chained clichés or
terse blocks of hilarious cod-philosophical speech. "Danger is real,
but fear is a choice." Yeah, well "Bowel actions are real, but toilet
paper is a choice." Next?Just as most filmmakers don't deliberately make bad films most
film-watchers don't deliberately want to dislike or not enjoy the films
they watch. And I'm of that ilk. But I am struggling to find much
positive to say about AFTER EARTH. Even so, globally it took around 243
mil at the box office and there are rumours of a sequel. If the sequel
is real then my fear definitely isn't a choice. In that case I'll
overcome my fear through avoidance. Works for me.
