6
It looks fantastic but as a drama it is severely lacking in impact and finesse.

Ben Affleck returns to Dennis Lehane's work with this adaptation of
Live By Night, the second novel in a trilogy (starting with The Given
Day and finishing with World Gone By). Live By Night is a gangster epic
which follows the rise to power of Joe Coughlin, a young Boston
criminal who ends up running an empire in Florida for the Italian mob.
As with The Town and Argo, Affleck casts himself in the leading role
and is joined by an impressive supporting cast including Sienna Miller,
Zoe Saldana, Elle Fanning, Robert Glenister, Chris Cooper and Brendan
Gleeson.The film begins with Coughlin, as the narrator, introducing himself as
a veteran who has returned disillusioned from WW1 to the extent that he
refuses to follow rules or take orders from anybody. As such, he now
considers himself an outlaw. We see him and his crew embark on daring
robberies, including a poker game ran by one of Boston's major
gangsters, Albert White (played with menacing vigour by Glenister)
whose moll is having an affair with Coughlin. As repercussions ensue,
Coughlin reluctantly takes on a job for White's mob rivals who send him
to Ybor City, Florida, in order to take over their rum import
enterprise during the prohibition era. Despite initial protestations
that he is not a gangster, does not want to be wedded to the mob or
have to take orders from anyone, he eventually concedes to his
circumstances and his need for revenge against White, and so quickly
sets about establishing his presence, authority and power across
Southern Florida. In doing so, he finds love, friendship and enemies as
he encounters the wrath of various strands of the Florida populous,
ranging from the devoutly religious to the KKK, who take umbrage with
his diverse business and personal relations. Naturally, events head
toward a bloody and violent showdown.As an addition to the gangster genre, Live By Night certainly has a
uniqueness to it. Thanks to the Florida setting, there is a notable
feel and style to the film. Whereas the typical gangster movie might be
set in dark and claustrophobic city locations such as Chicago, New
York, Detroit or Boston, the story here is told against sun-soaked,
colourful and expansive scenery which provides a sense of heat so
stifling that it can almost be felt coming through the screen. The film
also boasts some sumptuous scenery, particularly of the Florida glades,
whilst the early 20th Century town-life of Ybor City really comes to
life thanks to excellent design, costumes and vibrant music. It was
interesting, too, to see a gangster film based during the prohibition
era which told its story from the perspective of the suppliers of the
alcohol, rather than the city-based recipients. Additionally, the
ethnic diversity of the characters form a foundation for the depiction
of the racism that was so prevalent in the southern United States
during this period, and this gives Live By Night a distinctiveness
within the genre.Unfortunately, whilst Affleck has proved himself to be a superb
director, this is by far his weakest effort. Hastily cut and edited,
the first act in particular chops and changes scenes with such frenetic
pace and frequency one could be forgiven for feeling queasy with motion
sickness. This may very well be a conscious decision by Affleck, as
Coughlin's voice-over thankfully helps provide some degree of
constructive narrative, but as a result any provision of context, plot
or character development feels completely overlooked; an issue that
lingers throughout the film. Too much feels glossed over and rushed,
with relationships suddenly formed and underdeveloped, whilst character
motivations and intentions are under-explored and largely ignored.Lehane's novel does not suffer from the same issues and therefore the
source material cannot be blamed here. Indeed, we are introduced to
Coughlin in the first novel, The Given Day, and his character,
relationships, background, grievances and drive are detailed
thoroughly. With Affleck's film, he introduces us to Coughlin midway
through the character's reality and doesn't bother to lay a foundation
for him. As a result, Coughlin's relationship with his high-ranking
police officer father is barely covered, whereas Lehane uses this as
one of the core influences behind his intention to live a life of
crime. In the film, Coughlin says how he mourns for a lost love, but
this is not something we actually get to see. Again, Lehane uses this
as a key impetus for his character. Affleck's Coughlin, a petty
criminal, insists on not becoming a gangster, yet hits the ground
running the second he arrives in Florida setting up the empire. There
are various other examples which all highlight how the events within
Affleck's film are mostly conceived out of pure convenience.Compounding this sense of underdevelopment and hastiness is an
infuriating lack of any indication of how much time is passing
throughout the story. At one point towards the end of the film,
Coughlin refers to a girl who died in 1927, and this just highlighted
the fact that, aside from references to US Presidents and the end of
prohibition, there is nothing to suggest when these events are taking
place or indeed how long they are taking.It's frustratingly poor storytelling, especially when considering the
strength and quality of the source material. Combined with Affleck
being so prominent in his leading role, his decision as the director to
use so many facial close-ups and lingering shots of Coughlin means that
Live By Night essentially feels like a self indulgence piece.
Ironically, his brother Casey would arguably have made a better
Coughlin and perhaps Affleck would benefit from staying behind the
camera next time.Ultimately, Live By Night is a missed opportunity. It looks fantastic,
and there are some excellent action sequences including car chases and
shoot-outs, but as a drama it is severely lacking in impact and
finesse.
