5
An utterly perfunctory retelling of the Apple founder's ups and downs in his early professional years that is good only for the completely ignorant

The first of what will surely be many biopics to come of one of the 

20th century's greatest innovators, 'Jobs' only draw is being first out 

of the gate. Yes, if you haven't yet been acquainted with the 

tumultuous early years of the Apple founder, then this perfunctory 

retelling will probably be as good an introduction as any; but everyone 

else who is familiar with the story will be disappointed with this 

overly simplistic portrayal of a complex man whose ambition was both 

his greatest gift as well as his most significant stumbling block.



Beginning in 2001 when he unveiled his masterpiece, the iPod, to 

rapturous applause, Stern and his first-time feature screenwriter Matt 

Whiteley rewind the clock thirty years ago to 1971 when Jobs was a 

student at Reed College, Portland. An LSD trip, a journey to India and 

a brief stint at Atari later, Jobs teams up with his buddy, self-taught 

engineering wiz Steve Wozniak (Josh Gad), to build Apple computers in 

the former's parents' Los Altos garage. Jobs had the inspired idea to 

combine a typewriter with a TV, and the Apple II was born - but not 

without the funding from entrepreneur and former Intel engineer Mike 

Markkula (Dermot Mulroney).



To find a dramatic hook, Whiteley predictably focuses on the most 

pivotal turning point in Jobs' life, as Jobs' launch of the Macintosh 

computer in 1984 sparks off an internal feud with his CEO John Scully 

(Matthew Modine) and the rest of the Board (including J.K. Simmons' 

Arthur Rock) that leads to his ouster and the company's subsequent 

decline. Of course, Jobs makes a return to the flailing company in 1996 

upon then-CEO Gil Amelio's (Kevin Dunn) request, returning Apple to its 

roots in the personal computer market and paving the way for its 

success today.



Is there anything this dramatization adds to that true story which you 

cannot glean from any text-based account? Hardly; if anything, it 

merely puts a face to the disbelief, disappointment, indignation and 

gratification Jobs must have felt when he was kicked out of Apple and 

then presented with the golden opportunity to rebuild the company into 

the vision he had for it at the onset. The storytelling is pretty 

straightforward, covering the important events of his professional ups 

and downs but providing little details beyond what is already public 

knowledge.



Admittedly, to expect more would probably be a tall order, since the 

man has passed away and the others who would be familiar with these 

past events did not participate in the making of this film - including 

the real-life Woz, who in fact has been a vocal critic of the movie. 

But more disappointingly, Stern completely glosses over Jobs' personal 

life and personality, both of which are essential to any 

self-respecting biopic - after all, how can any biography be complete 

without an insight into the person whose life story is being told?



Whiteley's episodic script is utterly superficial in this regard - and 

we're not talking about Jobs' drive, determination or innovation. 

Instead, Jobs' crucial relationship with Wozniak is thinly sketched, 

not only because it omits how they met and their chemistry, but also 

because it barely explains why Woz quit Apple dissatisfied with the 

direction the company was heading and the person that Jobs had become. 

Other aspects of Jobs' character are given short shrift - for instance, 

we see Jobs dumping his pregnant girlfriend Chris-Ann Brennan (Ahna 

O'Reilly) and refusing to recognise his newly born daughter as his own 

early on, but are given little explanation how and why he settles down 

and turns into a family man later.



If the scripting is a part of the problem, then the acting is yet 

another. Chiefly, while bearing more than a passing resemblance to 

Jobs, Ashton Kutcher is not up to the part. To his credit, one can tell 

Kutcher has put in a lot of effort into the role, emulating his 

character's awkwardly hunched posture as well as to some degree his 

voice and gestures; unfortunately Kutcher always looks like he is 

playing the part, and never quite becoming the character he is supposed 

to portray. It is an affected performance, and Kutcher's limitations as 

a dramatic actor are all too apparent here. In fact, the supporting 

acts steal the show, especially Mulroney's solid turn as Jobs' ally 

turned adversary.



Most of all, Stern's film rarely possesses the qualities that 

characterised Jobs - it isn't bold enough to offer a balanced, or 

critical even, perspective of the man (including his more unsavoury 

personal aspects), nor unique enough to provide a distinctive look at 

the early years of his storied career. What emerges is simply bland and 

uninspired filmmaking, which in the context of Jobs' illustrious and 

intricate life, is an unsatisfying tribute to a man who spent his time 

being exactly the opposite. 


