8
Ridiculous Action Scenes, Fun Characters, Slick Cars - Just What the Fans Love!

The Fate of the Furious is an enjoyable entry into the Fast and Furious
franchise that brings exactly what fans want to see: ridiculous action
sequences, fun characters and slick new cars. Directed by F. Gary Gray, The Fate of the Furious opens with Dominic
Toretto (Vin Diesel) and his wife Letty (Michelle Rodriguez) on their
honeymoon in Cuba when his team is called to assist Luke Hobbs (Dwayne
"The Rock" Johnson) with a mission in Berlin. Dom ruins the mission by
going rogue and leaving Hobbs injured on the side of the road. The team
soon figures out that Dom is working with a cyber terrorist by the name
of Cipher (Charlize Theron). To take down Dom and figure out why he has
changed sides, they must enlist the help of old friends as well as new
ones. My favorite part of this film is the jailbreak scene where Hobbs has to
stop an old enemy named Deckard (Jason Statham) from escaping prison
and wreaking havoc. Seeing two action heroes fighting their way out of
prison and preparing to duke it out is exhilarating and had me pumping
my fists in the air with excitement. This scene is over-the-top and
outrageous but I was having too much fun to care.I am an outsider to this franchise, having never before seen a Fast and
Furious film. I really enjoyed this movie. As this franchise has
evolved, it has learned what the fans want to see. By not taking itself
too seriously, the cheesy dialogue and slow-mo feel a little more
fitting with its lighter tone. The way this film works is that it knows
it's absurd and has fun with it.I don't love the story because it tries to do too much, a common thing
in blockbuster movies today. The opening sequence in Cuba is
unnecessary. It barely has anything to do with the plot but it does
establish the mood and tone. By upping the ante with ridiculous action
from the very start, it prepares the audience for what's to come. There
are also a lot of characters to follow and sometimes the plot gets a
little too ridiculous for comfort. But if you're going to see this
film, it's not for a strong story.Some performances in this film are very funny. Tyrese Gibson is
hilarious as Roman. He has a lot of fun with this role and is very
energetic. Dwayne Johnson is another standout who delivers an amusing
performance. He maintains his action hero persona while also exercising
his comedic chops. The lesson of this film is that you should never turn your back on
family. Even when Dom goes rogue, his team never gives up on him. I
recommend this film for ages 14 to 18 for its mild language and
violence. I give The Fate of the Furious 4 out of 5 stars. Overall, The Fate of
the Furious is a film that should be appealing for outsiders to this
franchise as well as those who have been on this ride since the very
beginning. Reviewed by Benjamin P., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic.
