6
Losing The Forest For The Trees

There is no doubt that the event on which "Battle of the Sexes" is
based on was a monumental moment in sports and cultural history. The
exhibition tennis match between Bobby Riggs & Billie Jean King was in
part a circus, but also (in large part) a key moment in the taking of
women athletes seriously on the national stage. While this film
eventually arrives at that point, I felt like it took far too long for
it to "get to the point", so to speak.For a basic plot summary, this film tells the story of the run-up to
the Battle of the Sexes match. Riggs (Steve Carell) is a male
chauvinist through and through (or at least plays the role of one),
while King (Emma Stone) is perhaps the premiere women's tennis player
of her era. While King struggles with her confusing sexuality and Riggs
falls on hard times with his own wife, this sets the wheels in motion
for a match that will be more than just an exhibition, as it seemingly
carries with it the weight of the Women's Liberation movement of the
1970s.Let me be clear about one thing: This isn't a "bad" movie by any
stretch. Great acting performances are given, and the final 30 minutes
are fully riveting. I completely understood and appreciated the message
that was being conveyed.That being said, the entire film is predicated on the notion that the
setup (e.g. the first 70-80 minutes or so) of both lead figures will
lead to more dramatic payoff in the end. For me, that didn't happen (in
fact, it actually had the opposite effect). I'm not sure that King's
sexual leanings needed to be a focal point of the story, and in Riggs'
case his relationship with his wife (played by Elisabeth Shue) should
have been developed even more. Because neither of these things really
get on track, at least the first half of the film felt slow and stodgy
to me.Once the match is set and the buildup/execution of it begins, though,
the film really shines. I only have video footage to go on here (I was
not alive for the real thing), but Stone is sometimes a dead-ringer for
King on the court. Carell's antics as Riggs were also accurate from
what I have read/heard.So, while being a solid film, I cannot give "Battle of the Sexes" more
than just above-average marks for the lackluster opening acts. I felt
like a different lens was needed (or the execution of the chosen lens
needed to be better) in order to make the movie truly riveting in the
end instead of "just" somewhat inspirational. It never got to that
"next level" for me (aside from the material about the actual match
itself).
