10
Breath of Fresh Air to the Horror and Psychologic Thriller Categories of Film

Can't believe all these bad reviews or the horrible percentage it has
on this website. This movie broke all expectations I had and was filled
with twists and turns that will leave your head spinning even after the
film is over and it's been half a day. Before going into my review, I
just want to address 3 annoying things I have seen in reviews. 1) First
review I saw by Angry Joe on YouTube said that it was predictable from
the first scene what would happen by the end. This is so untrue. I
expected it to have some Shutter Island, Fight Club, split personality
twist but that never happens. Instead you get more and more reeled into
the character and all the mystery of what is happening at this
facility. 2) Some critic on RT said it was a lot of unpleasantness.
WHAT THE F**K did you expect? A happy go lucky movie with pleasant fun
things in it? NO! Obviously the whole thing is about a guy losing his
mind, so that is just in general an unpleasant theme, you moron. 3) Saw
a critic saying it was over-produced. Apart from maybe one scene I can
think of towards the end, it was not over produced. It was WELL
produced which is very different. When I think of an over-produced
movie, I think of almost every superhero movie recently that is plagued
by bad writing and an overload of CG. This was nothing of the sort.
Nearly every CG moment (besides the stupid face of a deer that gets hit
by the car) looked stunningly realistic and was used at a moment where
it was necessary to the artistic integrity of the film. This film is
ART! Okay, so now that I've addressed the idiots out there, let me give you
my outlook on this film. I am a huge fan of psychologic thrillers and
SOME horror that is extremely outside of the box. I don't like typical
slashers or ghost stories and recently have really been getting tired
of the paranormal "someone's possessed by a demon" bulls**t that has
been coming out way too often. This movie was a complete fresh breathe
of air. A Cure for Wellness is nothing like Shutter Island in it's execution or
style, but the main character does look like a little brother of Di
Caprio and the films do share the 'crazy house' setting. This movie is
brutal at certain points and hard to watch in terms of intensity, which
is something I like. I suppose one thing that could upset people about this movie is that
some things are not completely cleared up by the end of the movie,
which leaves a lot to the imagination of the viewer. After seeing it
once, I definitely feel this movie has a rewatchable factor because it
seems you could dig up more, looking back through it for clues. I will
certainly be buying this one when it's out on video.
