10
Intensity incarnate

Jesus.This was intense. So much so that it made me kind of uncomfortable. I
was squirming in my seat. And it was extremely dark. Not color wise,
but the subject matter. Villeneuve really knows how to take the most
vile subjects and turn them into wholly compelling cinema.The cast was uniformly excellent. The big three of Blunt, Brolin & Del
Toro are all crazy good. Even though Blunt has the lead role it's
definitely not a showy part...it's very understated with a lot of it
consisting of looks. An internal performance, for sure, but one that
might just be the best of her career. Brolin is given a role that at
first seems like nothing more than comic relief, but as the film goes
on he keeps becoming more and more a part of the character until close
to the end when all the jokes disappear and he becomes something else
entirely. It was really cool to see that transition. Very good work
from him and there are times where it feels like he's stealing the
whole movie away from the others. Which brings me to Mr. Del Toro. What
else is there to say except Ho Lee Sh!t. This man was just on a
completely different level with this performance. Another one that
begins very internal consisting of a lot of looks mixed with one or two
word responses...then gradually as the film progresses and his
background and motives become clearer he, like Brolin, becomes
something else entirely. But at the same time never going overboard
with it...still keeping that quiet intensity he's had throughout. All
three performances are absolutely fantastic and among the best of the
year. Hell, Del Toro's might even be the best of the year. Haunting
stuff.As mentioned above this a very intense film. The set-pieces in this are
unbelievable. The opening raid, The Border crossing, The night-
vision/tunnel sequence and finally The dinner scene. Just pure
craziness.With that being said - I don't think this is an Oscar movie. It's just
way too dark for the Academy's liking. Very much like Villeneuve's
Prisoners, both films are more than deserving of awards attention, but
unfortunately the Academy rarely goes for films this dark.See this movie ASAP. Preferably in a theater. Just know you might need
a shower afterward.
