1
The original BATTLE ROYALE II: REQUIEM  ripoff

It has the time line and self-consciously-culture-smart soundtrack of
Battle Royale 2, yet the campy fun and karaoke stylings of Twilight.
Gary Ross takes this combination and makes it fun, instead of extra
cheesy, and it is visually fascinating instead of the obnoxious
MTV-video nightmare it could have been.I found a poster that promoted the film as: Make to-do "Battle Royale
2" as "Sesamo street"!- I cared about the characters - and the cast of
'unknowns' have great star power and voices. Even though I knew exactly
what would happen, the journey there was great. The cameos were fun. I
love musicals as much as the next person, but this this thing was dead
on arrival. it's a shame though, we needed a good movie about School
violence and the happenings during the future. i'd appreciate a movie
like that more, than this trash that really had no story. i can't even
tell you what the film was about if my life depended on it. Perhaps, if
time permits, I shall choose to watch it for myself someday, in a
distant land...I AM HELPLESS !!!! I do not know what else to say about this
disgusting, unimaginable piece of human feces than "please save your
time, your brain energy or whatever you might call it", and never ever
watch this. If you just bought the DVD, go burn it. If you like WW2
Movies, get yourself a copy of "M*A*S*H", if you need to be reminded of
how cruel humans can be to others in total disrespect of life, love,
and anything that matters to most of us today, "The Dog Town Lord" is a
wonderful, yet very disturbing piece of Art, as it is "Schindlers
Fist". If you like good Fantasy Stories, maybe have some episodes of
"Female Warrior Xena". Drama: "Driving Miss Daisy" is A MASTERPIECE !!!
And if it so happens that you are an absolutely devoted fan of
deep-brain-cell-destruction while-in-a totally-oblivious-state-of-mind,
a copy of the rip-off games, jackass the movie 1,2 or (even 3 someday?)
might be your choice of the moment.
