8
Media propaganda meets psycho in this fascinating film

This film essentially tells the story of an ambitious and somewhat
psychotic news video freelancer (played by Jake Gyllenhall) who will do
anything, literally, to make his way in the world and be successful and
a media editor (played by Rene Russo) who,in her own world of news
casting, also has few if any scruples when it comes to her career and
reputation. Put the two together and you get an escalating set of
events in which the video freelancer goes to greater and greater
extremes to film shocking scenes of crime, encouraged along by the
media editor who is paying for his results.What makes the film more interesting than just another action drama is
the social commentary and the character studies. The main characters
are very well crafted, believable, explained through back drop and
excellently acted out. The parallels between them are also interesting
to observe. Both pretty much without any care for the people around
them and focused solely on personal gain. What the video guy will do to
get his paycheck is shocking, but what the media editor will do to get
her news reel is just as distasteful.The social commentary is also sharp. The media is portrayed essentially
as caring about nothing but a good story, even in fact if that story
happens to be untrue. What matters is the narrative and the narrative
has to fit the agenda of the media agency. By this measure all news is
little more than propaganda. The video guy, despite his barbaric
methods and behaviour, is also tolerated by those around him and the
message, at least from the media editor and her team (acknowledging one
dissenting voice in the film), is that it is OK to be cruel and to hurt
others if it is in the pursuit of personal ambition. Both are valid
observations and comments on today's society, whether we, the viewers,
happen to agree with them or not.The film also has a touch of originality which isn't easy to do these
days when so many movies have already been made. Yes there are studies
out there of psychos, yes there are films that vilify the media and
there are films about morbid voyeurism and about the exploitation of
victims of crime for personal gain. The originality comes from putting
them all together. I couldn't really think of a parallel, although
others might.This is well worth watching. You may not ultimately enjoy the film,
after all it isn't pleasant, but I am fairly sure you will remember it.
