9
Metropolis of the new century

No spoilers here !Remember Metropolis, the great silent film by Fritz Lang, and probably
the most revered science-fiction film of all times ? Well, if
Snowpiercer is not such an absolute masterpiece, I do believe it's the
best reiteration of the same concept that made Lang's film so unique :
asking questions about the condition of mankind in a futuristic
society, and how it does and does not evolve as compared with current
times. It's good that not all near-blockbuster scale sci-fi movies do not come
out of Hollywood anymore. Snowpiercer is based on a long-forgotten 70's
French graphic novel. The Korean director got his hands on a bootleg
translation in a Seoul bookshop while filming The Host and got totally
hooked. The end product is a French-Korean production, in the making of
which one of the authors of the original graphic novel got directly
involved. The plot is simple : ecologist freaks have pushed governments to
unleash a gas in the atmosphere to control global warming, this proved
so effective that the world is now a standalone, snow-covered giant ice
cap. The only survivors are all aboard a revolutionary train that goes
on and on making loops around the world. It's like Noah's Ark, but
including the politics that come with it : first class, second class,
workers, fraudsters, the ticket is your fate - for generations. And the
consequences are extreme, to such and extent that you can't conceive.
Prepare to be shocked at times. Imagine the vertical multistoreyed
humanity of Lang's Metropolis, the horizontal way. Some of the tail
section fraudsters decide to rebel against their condition and progress
to the head car of the train regardless of the risks. Every car they go
through bears its grotesque and mind-bending surprises. And tells us
more about how this society actually works and what it relies on. This film has style. Even though it reminds of Gilliam (see 12 monkeys)
and Matsumoto (Galaxy Express), there is real personality and
originality. CGI is limited to a few breathtaking scenes that really
add up to the storyline. Acting is mostly excellent, especially by Ed
Harris and John Hurt. But most importantly, this film triggers
reflection, soul-searching and debate like true Sci-Fi gems should.
Unlike most Hollywood movies, it is not Manichaean : the story and
morals are complex and debatable. You heart keeps swinging for scene to
scene as you learn more. The ending asks a lot of questions. All in all, when the end credits start rolling, it's a film you want to
rewatch, not because you haven't understood, but because you want to
understand more, and experience more.
