8
A Guilty Pleasure

I know the Farley Brothers are fans of those guys and said that the
Stooges were their comic influence. I understand that. I saw DUMB AND
DUMBER and THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY. They have a Stooge-like feel
to it. When I heard an announcement about the new movie, I thought to
myself, "What time is it?" "Not going to work o'clock." When I heard
about the plot, saying it will take place in modern times. I was turned
off, despite the preview. I showed the preview to my friends, and they
agree with me on how stupid the ideas was. It is surly not going to
work at all. If the story took place in the 1930's, post World War II
(late forties), or 1950's, then it would work very well! I saw it at
the day THE AVENGERS came out (at that time, my right arm was beginning
to look like those of Popeye's because I was animating a lot). I saw it
and it was very funny. It has a feel of a Stooges short. I am not going
to give it way, you have to see it in order to understand it (even
though if you are a Stooges fan). Now the things that bothered me were
the fact that it took place in modern times, a lion's testicles are
shown, a rat comes down some lady's cleavage and modern day pop-culture
references, like the scene where he called the butler C3-PO. I
chuckled, but with Moe being on THE JERSEY SHORE, made me laugh.
Because anything that is anti-Jersey Shore makes my day (i.e. I am not
a fan of the show). With those two scenes, it would look like it is
going to end up with a PG-13 rating. I did some math, after watching
the film. It takes place in 2012 (i.e. the present) go 25 years back,
they are ten year-old kids, so it is 1987. Go back 10 years it is 1977,
they arrived to the orphanage as babies. Something wrong in this film?
I know, but somehow I like, because it is very funny. I heard from
online reviews, and when I saw what the hub-bub was all about, I
enjoyed it. It is a guilty pleasure. So give it a watch I recommend it.
8 out of 10. Good job Farley Brothers.Rated PG for some language, traditional slapstick violence, crude humor
and some scenes that might give it a PG-13 rating (i.e. sexual
references).
