8
This time travel crap; just fries your brain like an egg"

Time travel films open up all manner of questions because of the
paradoxes every action and reaction produce. If X occurred, surely Y
would happen, which means X wouldn't happen after all And so it is
with Looper. Alas, to avoid dishing out hugely unpopular plot spoilers I need to
skirt around the concerns, so you'll just have to come round with cake
and we can discuss it in private. But there are some pretty substantial
issues with Looper that cause questions to be asked and lead to more
than a couple of possible explanations as to what exactly is going on.
Don't see it alone; you'll need a friend around to discuss it on the
journey home.Equally, don't be put off. You don't need to be Einstein to enjoy
Looper, as some of the audience proved In 2072, time travel is both possible and illegal and murder is more
easily solved because corpses are harder to lose. However mobs and
Mafiosi types are prevalent and have ingeniously devised a solution:
tie your victim up and send him back in time to a location where a
looper will be waiting to blow his/her brains out. However, when a
looper's contract is up, they find themselves blowing the brains out of
their older self. Except when looper Joe (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) stares
down the barrel at a version of himself that is thirty years older, Old
Joe (Bruce Willis) outsmarts him and so begins a cat and mouse chase
where there are multiples of each species and most of them aren't
called Joe.Confused? Good. Don't think any more or you'll confound yourself with
your wondering and wandering along all the possible flows and
tributaries that lead from them. Like, Is he actually... Dammit.Along with the quirks, possibilities and matters left to
interpretation, there are one or two clear boo-boos that cut against
the rules writer/director Rian Johnson (Brick, The Brothers Bloom) has
set himself. I'm sure you can work out from the subject matter that
there are occasional murders so I'm giving nothing away by stating that
a particular murder in 2027 cuts against the rules. It's not a major
problem in terms of enjoyment but it does cast a shadow over everything
if minor errors are not avoided.There's only one way to watch Looper: suspend all disbelief, put your
logic in stasis and get on with enjoying the romp. With that frame of
mind employed, it's a superb film. No, it's not as intelligent a film
as Inception, but it kicks the ass of Wanted and Gordon-Levitt is
potentially a bigger star in the making than either Leonardo DiCaprio
or James McAvoy.I'm not sure that I buy Gordon-Levitt as a young Willis but the
transition is simple and effectively executed and it needn't stand in
the way of a couple of hours of great entertainment. He's matured as an
actor and, though he's been stamping around Hollywood for a good couple
of decades, it's the last five years or so that have really seen him
ascend the ranks and there's no sign of his climb slowing with both
Spielberg's Lincoln and Don Jon's Addiction (which he also wrote and
directed) in the can and Premium Rush earning plaudits on both sides of
the Atlantic.As for Willis, it's good to see him earning his fee again in a film
worthy of his presence rather than phoning it in for a fat wad in the
truly awful The Expendables 2. Emily Blunt (Sara) and Jeff Daniels ably
provide support, the former, sadly, barely stretched and the latter, as
Abe, the loopers' boss, clearly enjoying himself. Equally, Paul Dano
gives a wonderful, trademark sniveling wretch performance that is all
too brief. But Looper belongs to Gordon-Levitt and One Tree Hill's
Pierce Gagnon as the child, Cid, whose middle name is probably Damian.
Unnerving is an understatement! There is a very strong argument that the best person to direct a film
is the writer because s/he knows it better than anyone. Clearly that
wasn't the case with Maximum Overdrive (Stephen King being the fine
writer who should never be allowed either in front of or behind a
camera again) but with Looper it's a very strong case in point.Johnson, though he bends his rules, has created a multi-layered,
rapidly paced trip that is littered with bodies and to-die-for quips,
to wit, "I cleaned you up. And put a gun in your hand." He juggles the
time zones effortlessly and maintains the excitement while allowing
sufficient moments for us to pause, cogitate and catch up before
whipping us to the next sprint, jump or shoot-out. Though he has
nothing (publicly) on the slate, there'll be plenty more from him in
the next few years.As is increasingly the case, my biggest complaint with last night's
viewing has nothing to do with the film itself but with the screening,
namely the blown speakers all along one side of the auditorium (big
thumbs down to Cineworld) and the moron in front who played with his
phone and gave muted shrieks of excitement every time there was a shot
or splatter of blood, even taking the time to relive it with his
friend. Who are these people? Why are they allowed to breathe? When
will time travel come to my aid? Ah, but these are niggles and
hopefully you won't be subjected to such when you watch Looper. And do
see it. Maybe you'll absolutely hate the confusion it causes you, but
if you don't mind giving a film some real thought and you enjoyed the
possibilities of Inception, then Looper is for you.Just don't think too hard. As Abe laments, "This time travel crap; just
fries your brain like an egg" For more reviews subscribe to www.thesquiss.co.uk Like the Facebook page: http://on.fb.me/RpitOG
