1
Anything But Fantastic

Fantastic Four (or as many call it Fant4stic) is a comic book movie
starring Miles Teller, Kate Mara, Michael B. Jordan, Jamie Bell,
Directed by Josh Trank, was produced by Twenty-First Century Fox, and
has the run-time of 100mins (1hr40mins).This is the 4th movie (and 3rd theatrical one) in the Fantastic Four
Franchise. Now despite the hate i actually liked the last 2 movies in
the franchise (Fantastic Four 2005 and Fantastic Four Rise of the
Silver Surfer, please don't kill me). Now this Movie has been out for
almost a year now but has still been getting much hate. To prove my
point I would just like to say the movie has a 9% on Rotten Tomatoes
which is tied for the worst rated superhero movie of all time. Let me
just say I am NOT a professional critic, I just go to movies to have a
good time(as shown with my liking of the old Fantastic Four movies) not
necessarily to look for major flaws. However this movie makes that goal
rather insufferable. Anyways here it is. A lot of people give a pass to the acting simply because these actors
have done good work in other movies. Personally I find this to be a
terrible excuse. All of these actors such as Michael B. Jordan and
Miles Teller just seem like they have no soul throughout the entire
movie. It's almost as if the whole time these actors had been forced
into making this movie. Also the chemistry between them is just awful.Now let's talk about the pacing. Simply put it I have no idea what they
were thinking. Why would you make a Fantastic Four movie and have them
do absolutely nothing the whole time except for that horrendous fight
at the end. Now let me just say Superhero movies without much action
can be done well (Batman, X-Men: First Class, etc.) but if your going
to do that you have to having interesting conversations and a good
origin story which this movie does not have in any way.Speaking of origin stories, am I the only one who almost hated the
first half as much as the second half. I mean I know a lot of people
who say that the first half is pretty good and all I have to say is
how. It's just a drawn out, overly dark useless story that EVERYBODY
knows.Then there's the tone, which let my question why did they think that
make a dark and gritty reboot of Fantastic Four would be a good idea.
Again let me just say, a darker story of a previously existing light
heart movie isn't necessarily bad. But it has to have more reason then
some executive saying "Hey The Dark Knight was popular let's make this
just like that."Then there's the part I was most regretting talking (or writing) about
the Action and Effects. Let's get out of the way that Dr.Doom and CGI
Miles Teller Face is awful. What I wanted to talk about was the action
sequences (or just the 1 action sequence). To be honest it's the most
cliché, predictable fight ever. Basically what happens is that Dr.Doom
makes this ray thing that shoots into earth from the planet he's in and
The Fantastic Four have to stop him. So they go into the other planet
and try to fight off Dr.Doom separately and fail so they decide to team
up and defeat him. What I hate about this fight (aside from it's
predictable nature) is that the whole scene is shot in extreme darkness
plus it's all out of frame so you can barely tell what's going on.Last, I would like to quickly mention the forgettable score, the
incredible amount of plot holes such as Dr.Storm going to a science
fair for some reason, Dr.Doom magically making a cape, and Dr.Doom
looking at people and killing them but not doing that for the Fantastic
Four. Also just to say it is incredibly obvious Fox wanted to make some
sort of MCU with this movie and set up an entire expanded universe
around this movie when it cannot hold it's own weight as a good movie
to do something like that.ConclusionNow as you could probably tell I do not like this movie, it has awful
pacing, terrible effects,a rehashed story,and laughably bad action.
While many have pointed out that Fox took over the project and made it
a generic superhero movie. I agree with that but I still don't think
the part that wasn't taken over was even passable. It was just Josh
Trank redoing the exact same plot as the 2005 version but slower. But
the worst part is that the whole movie is just a set up for more
Fantastic Four movies with a set up scene every 5mins. This movie has
been called by many the worst superhero movie ever and I will
personally agree with that. At least Batman and Robin had an overly
joking theme and never took itself seriously unlike Fant4stic which
thinks it is going to be the Next Iron Man which could never happen
because Iron Man actually made a good movie before setting things up.
Overall i think the movie has too many problems to count such as bad
pacing, no structure, and awful effects to even be close to
recommending.Rating1/10Unwatchable
