10
Chris Hemsworth as James Hunt? Really??!

Really. His performance in Rush came as a huge surprise. This is his best
performance by quite some margin, a role which he plays with a great
deal of maturity and respect. He plays Hunt with just the right level
of arrogance, cockiness, confidence and audacity to convince you that
he was real life 70's playboy James Hunt, a man destined to live fast
and die young.Bruhl is superb as Niki too. It's a role that he deserves much
recognition for, particularly his accent and mannerisms. Lauda was one
of the first of a new generation of professional driver, driving the
old playboy characters out of the sport and Bruhl nails this icy
determination to succeed magnificently. A particular nod goes to Christian McKay's portrayal as the slightly
eccentric, petrol head extraordinaire, ever so aristocratic but
hopelessly financially incompetent Lord Hesketh. The camera work is spectacular, none less so than with some very
creative angles of the beautifully filmed on track action. The brief
in-helmet camera shots are inspired, giving you a glimpse of the
drivers world. CGI work will be spotted by the keen eyed, but you have
to consider that without it that there are certain scenes involving
priceless period machinery (the sound of a Cosworth DFV firing up and
filling the cinema was worth the ticket price alone) that would be just
impossible to film as accurately as they were depicted here with real
machinery. As a result, they are able to use the CGI sparingly and to
good effect.The main facts of the 1976 season are on the whole handled very
accurately. Certainly, some liberties are taken with poetic licence,
but this is still a scripted film and not a documentary. The factually
heavy writing of the script along with beautifully filmed and liberal
use of period machinery being recorded at pace on real asphalt will be
enough to keep the fans of the sport well represented.It's a gripping telling of the 1976 Formula 1 season, which whilst not
sharing the same shear spectacle of Howard's other 'too unbelievable to
be true' film Apollo 13, Rush tells a story which would be just too
unbelievable in terms of human bravery and personal destiny for any
fictional story to be given credence. It's a tale which will be enough
to hold the unfamiliar or casual viewer's attention with a steel firm
grip to see how the different personalities handle the pressures of
life both on and off the track and how rising to the top takes it's
tole on these two polar opposite real life gladiators of the race
track.With the lead actors clearly committed to giving their best
performances yet and a tastefully handled script, Ron Howard delivers a
visually impressive account of events that may well become one of his
most respected directorial efforts yet.10/10
