8
Wonderfully Shocking

Greetings again from the darkness. Being a huge fan of Tim Burton's
1984 short of the same title, news of a feature length feature was very
exciting. It's obvious from both films that director Tim Burton holds
the story and project close to his heart. The obvious guess is that
young Victor Frankenstein has much in common with the enigmatic
director's childhood experience ... a social misfit who finds joy in
less than popular outlets (science, sci-fi, filmmaking).The story begins simply enough, Victor - a socially inept boy, whose
only friend is his loyal dog Sparky, quickly connects with the new
science teacher, Mr. Rzykroski (who bears a striking resemblance to the
late, great Vincent Price). Victor's parents try to get him more
engaged and that leads to a tragic accident that kills Sparky. Victor
is heart-broken but his scientific mind leads to a shocking development
thanks to a local lightning storm. Soon enough, Sparky is back! Of
course, the secret gets out and the Science Fair takes on quite a
competitive nature.Burton really treats the film as an homage to old monster, horror and
sci-fi films. We get tributes to Frankenstein, The Mummy, Dracula
(complete with Christopher Lee), Godzilla, Bride of Frankenstein,
Gremlins, Jurrassic Park and others I certainly missed on first
viewing. But this is so much more. Mr. Rzykroski gives a less than PC
speech to the local townspeople, and though it is straight to the
point, that point is lost on these fine folks. The importance of
science and learning and accepting the differences of others is all
touched upon, but not in a preachy way.The voice work is stellar thanks to Catherine O'Hara, Martin Short,
Winona Ryder, Charlie Tahan, Martin Landau and Atticus Shaffer (Brick
on "The Middle"). The style and texture of the film is extraordinary.
The shadows and lighting provide an atmosphere that adds just enough
creepiness. The detail involved with the characters and setting is
remarkable for stop-motion animation. Not just that, but how many
movies have you seen recently that include a cat-bat, sea monkeys, and
a giant turtle? The suburban setting is almost identical to the
neighborhood seen in Burton's Edward Scissorhands, just without the
1960's color palette.This is excellent movie entertainment for adults and children alike.
Unfortunately, the black and white presentation has meant a lack of
interest from today's kids. Sure it has some darkness to it, but the PG
rating means nothing too heavy. This is Tim Burton at his finest ...
and without Johnny Depp or Helena Bonham Carter! Also, Danny Elfman's
score perfectly compliments the story and characters, and stay for the
credits to hear a very odd Karen O song.
