10
Brilliantly Shines in the Gray Area

Many films nowadays fall victim to the trap of
self-sacrifice--sacrificing characters for the sake of the plot,
sacrificing the plot for the sake of characters, sacrificing
intelligence for a visual escape, etc. The list runs long. 'American
Hustle', on the other hand, sacrifices nothing. It is greedy in terms
of wanting everything and achieving a step more. It is ambitious in
being ambitious. It is beautiful. It is the best movie of 2013. Many viewers claim to be confused and/or bored by the plot. This is a
grievous misstep on their part, in my opinion. The brilliance of the
plot lies in the thematic mists of the 'gray area.' From the very
beginning of the film, deceit, deception, and a wildly fantastic
British accent flourish on screen--and that's for the "good guys." The
opening scene of obsessive hair care illuminates that point. Throughout
the film every character continually re-invents themselves in order to
survive. Alliances are never a sure thing, and suspicious eyes view the
character's choices from beginning to end. The movie does an
unparalleled job of making the audience realize that life, and choices,
are not black and white. We live in a world of gray. This is cleverly
referenced in Rosalyn's sickly sweet nail polish, the downfall of
Carmine, who is a guy with good intentions and is punished accordingly,
and the unorthodox work relationship under which Richie operates. This
is off-putting to some people, I reason, who do not wish their own
demons so blatantly danced across the big screen. Perhaps, it is time
they drop their own phony accent, and own up to life. The acting was out of this world. Every single one of them--Christian
Bale, Amy Adams, Bradley Cooper, and Jennifer Lawrence--deserved their
nominations. Bale is subtle and brilliant as Irving, the main conman.
He is unappealing and dubious, yet you can't help but like him. His
later soft heart towards Jeremy Renner's Carmine is icing on the cake
for the dabbling in the gray area. Amy Adams shines, literally at
times, as Sydney, Irving's con partner. She is the most volatile and
hardest character to read for most of the film. Adams embodies the
cocoon that Sydney has created with elegance and fiery deceit. Cooper
is entirely convincing as the Richie, the FBI agent whose own ambition
proves to be too much. Cooper brings the same electrifying energy he
put on display for 'Silver Linings Playbook' (2012), and doesn't miss a
beat between howl of laughter of roar of frustration as his plans
become convoluted to a maximal degree. Jeremy Renner is also an
absolute winner as Carmine, the mayor, despite not receiving an award
nod as of yet. Renner is the consummate politician, and you can't help
but sympathize with his character (even though you wonder if you should
be, 95% of the time). Last, but certainly not least, is Jennifer
Lawrence's Rosalyn, Irving's hysterical, deranged wife. The hype around
Lawrence's role is well-deserved, she solidified herself among the
elite with this role. Each of her scenes brought laughs and
anticipation as you awaited what sort of screwball situations her
character would stir up next. Standing ovation to all of the cast on
this one--you stand far high above the rest. At the core, this movie is more than just a dazzling spectacle of
throwback clothing and crazy hairstyles. It speaks to an era. It speaks
to human emotion and ambition. It speaks to the world we live in today.
It speaks sometimes with an infectious British accent and sometimes
adroitly American. Most importantly, it speaks. Go out and listen to
what it has to say.
