8
To The Negative Reviews, What Else Were You Expecting?

Wow, seeing some of these reviews really made me laugh. "Generic, it's
the exact same thing as if you were playing a FPS game!" Maybe those
who are saying those things saw a different trailer than me? This movie
is exactly what it was promoted to be. An hour and thirty six minutes
of a lot of violence, jokes, and well, shakiness. Within the first 30
minutes of the movie, many people walked out murmuring to themselves
"this is stupid, my head hurts" and I really questioned why they even
bought a ticket in the first place if watching a shaky camera hurts
your head? Why did a group of middle aged women go see this, and leave
shortly after? DID YOU STUMBLE UPON THE WRONG MOVIE?Besides my little rant, I most definitely recommend this movie. I am
not a major fan of FPS games, but having the entire movie filmed with
Go Pro's, along with the great action made this a very fun and
enjoyable movie. It doesn't take itself seriously, as it knows exactly
what it is. As much as I hate when people say this, it is one of those
movies where you really can turn your brain off and enjoy it.I smiled throughout the entire movie, and though the trailers show some
really cool shots from the movie, there is still plenty of fun in the
movie to where you really do not get bored one bit. The park-our scenes
are truly something else as well, with major respect to the stunt- men
who did their job perfectly. The music choice was also something that I
truly enjoyed, it fit the movie very well. The acting, while little of
it, was passable and did not really strike me as "bad." If you are a person who can't stand something like the Bourne movies
for their shaky cam, do not see this. If you love action movies and
really want to admire great fight scenes and plenty of mayhem, go see
this.And for those saying the idea is not original, yes, movies shot in
first person are not original. But for an action movie of this caliber,
I would say it is an experience that is definitely worth it.
