1
Purge this Film Away! Please!

Let me start off by getting my anger out! erereeorjithisw34ifilmjtoeiskrcrapowerAll right. Let's spend some time complaining on how this film was
greatly a piece of poop. Just for a quick review, The Purge is
basically about one night in America (they wish) where everybody is
free to rob, murder with class 4 weapons or under. ((Class 4 and higher
is probably radioactive or infectious weaponry)) Any ways, let's start
off with our characters.Sergeant: The main douche bag with no motives. He plans to hunt someone
who accidentally killed his son in a car accident. Apparently, it takes
him to go through the city to get in the suburban area where he already
came from to GET to the suburban area he is already living in.The two idiots and the father: Two whiny liberal women who keep
complaining. They always say "GUNS ARE NOT THE ANSWER!" The father also
killed him self to sacrifice for the "rich white men" who control the
new America. (How racist is that? lol)Mark Zuckerberg and his Girlfriend: Their car randomly breaks down
during sundown of the purge night. They are like the two Idiots but a
bit more tolerable. The guy is more of an idiot than most of people out
of the group.Fidel Castro and his group: Yes... Fidel is literally in this movie,
the moron who is with the Superintendent, Lorraine and that weird girl
from the Diner in the beginning of the movie. Carmelo and the crew: Michael K. Williams is one of my favorite actors.
Unfortunately for him, he played the role of some random nobody who
claims that the "New founding father and all the rich white people"
created the purge for fun. His crew consists of all American men who
are Black. This is fine, except where are the white people in that same
movement? The Chumps with Masks: A bunch of hooligans shown killing people
through out the movie. The director randomly shows them some kindness
and shows the audience that they really just wanted to kidnap people
and sell them to the rich white people who apparently run America.Big Daddy: Probably the only cool character I enjoyed throughout the
whole film. Anybody can probably agree. Who doesn't love that bad-ass
guy with the aviators, American flagged baseball hat who shoots a
Gatling gun out of the back of an 18 wheeler. The Rich White Mans Army: A bunch of "White" guys who work for the
"White Government".So, we got most of the characters out of the way. The rest don't really
matter much. I could care less about the story. I will get straight to
the point of this pile of heated donkey remains. This film is trying to portray subliminal messaging by Conservatives as
"Bad, evil, ignorant and greedy!" people and Liberals are "Good,
innocent and here to save everyone!" .... Yeah.. what a pile of sh**,
right? That's basically the review of the characters and some of the story for
it. I would talk about the story.. but... I think it's best if I wrap
this up if you really want to see how bad this movie is with its
horrible agenda.My conclusion is that this film is NOT for anybody who has a brain.
Have a good day, and purge this film out to the curb and stomp on it!
