7
Vaughn and Goldman cross the pond for more of the same.

You would probably need to be living under a rock not to know that
"Kingsman: The Golden Circle" is the follow-up film to Matthew Vaughn
and Jane Goldman's highly successful 2015 offering "Kingsman: The
Secret Service": a raucous, violent and rude entry into the spy-caper
genre. And the sequel is more of the same: why mess with a crowd-
pleasing formula?The fledgling agent Eggsy (Taron Egerton ("Eddie the Eagle"), curiously
called "Eggy" at various points in the film for reasons I didn't
understand) is now the new "Galahad" following the demise in the first
film of the original, played by Colin Firth ("Magic in the Moonlight",
"Bridget Jones' Baby"). But just as he's getting into his stride the
whole Kingsman organisation, now headed by Michael Gambon ("Harry
Potter") as Arthur , is ripped apart by an evil drugs cartel called
"The Golden Circle" headed by smiling but deadly Poppy (Juliane Moore,
"Still Alice").Eggsy and Lancelot (Mark Strong, "Miss Sloane") in desperation turn to
Statesman – the US equivalent organisation – and together with some
surprising allies set out to defeat the evil plot to poison all casual
drug users.Subtle this film certainly is not, featuring brash and absurdly
unrealistic action scenes that are 90% CGI but – for me at least –
enormous fun to watch. As with the first film (and I'm thinking of the
grotesquely violent church scene here) the action moves however from
'edgy' to over-the-top/offensive at times. The 'burger scene' and
(particularly) the 'Glastonbury incident' are the standout moments for
all the wrong reasons. You can only hope a stunt vagina was used for
this scene, else Poppy Delavigne (older sister of Cara) is going to
find it very hard to find credible future work. One can only guess what
tasteful interlude is being planned for Kingsman 3 – – a prostate-
based tracker perhaps?The film works best when the core team of Taron Egerton, Mark Strong
and Colin Firth (yes, Colin Firth!) are together. Jeff Bridges ("Hell
or High Water"), Channing Tatum ("Foxcatcher") and Halle Berry
("Monster's Ball") all turn up as key members of 'Statesman' – adding
star power but not a lot else – together with Pedro Pascal ("The Great
Wall") as 'Whiskey', who I expected to be someone equally famous behind
the moustache but wasn't!There's also a very entertaining cameo from a star (no spoilers from
me) whose foul-mouthed tirades I found very funny, and who also has the
funniest line in the film (playing off one of the most controversial
elements of the first film). It's fair to say though that others I've
spoken to didn't think this appearance fitted the film at all. Julianne Moore makes for an entertaining – if less than credible –
villain, as does Bruce Greenwood ("Star Trek: Into Darkness") as a
barely disguised Trump. None of the motivations of the bad 'uns however
support any scrutiny whatsoever: this is very much a "park your brain
at the door" film.I really shouldn't enjoy this crass, brash, brainless movie fast-food…
and I know many have hated it! But my guilty secret is that I really
did like it – one of the best nights of unadulterated escapist fun I've
had since "Baby Driver". Classy it's certainly NOT, but I enjoyed this
just as much as the original.(For the full and graphical review, please visit bob-the-movie-
man.com. Thanks.)
