1
This movie is Dogsh!t...

Oliver Stone...you sir, have lost your touch. After making such
brilliant films as JFK, Platoon and Natural Born Killers, you have
lowered yourself to the likes of Wall Street 2 and this heaping pile of
dog manure, Savages.The star of the movie, Blake Lively, essentially plays a spoiled whore.
Hard to root for that type of person. She is paired up with 2 rich
entrepreneurs. Now, I know there are different relationships on this
planet, but I find it a bit hard to believe that 2 young, attractive,
in-shape rich guys would end up sharing a girlfriend like that...it
just didn't feel possible. Atrocious writing. Then, in a line that
rivals "Oh my Godddd" from Troll 2 and "He's the Lawrence of my labia"
from Sex and the City 2, Lively spouts, when speaking of screwing the
war veteran, "I have orgasms. He has wargasms." Grrrrr! How f-ing
stupid is that f-ing line?!?! It pisses me off to be honest with you.
Wargasms? Come on. Just bad writing.The voice-over from Lively as well...terrible. It truly sounded like an
audition tape from one of those online broadcasting colleges. And Emile
Hirsch...what was he doing in this movie? His part should have been
played by a talented extra. He was completely wasted, a "nothing" role.
Hirsch personally must have had a few difficult days driving into work
during filming, wondering where his career was heading.And how in the world, Stone, are you going to start a movie off with
the voice-over of Lively saying something to the effect of "just
because I'm talking at the start doesn't mean I'm alive at the
end"...just for her to end up being friggin alive at the end?! WTF?!
But I could excuse all these things...all of them...if the movie wasn't
such a BORE! Stone should be having fun with this movie, ala Natural
Born Killers, instead he made a cheap, lazy, boring movie with a
terrible ending that ended up costing me $5 and two hours of my life.
Oliver Stone, you sir, can supple upon my ball sack! JD
