9
Excellent Thriller with a Memorable Twist at the End

THE BODY (EL CUERPO) is one of those thrillers that grips you at the
beginning and never lets go till the very end. The plot is
straightforward: Álex Ulloa (Hugo Silva) has suffered a sudden
bereavement, as his wife Mayka (Belén Rueda) has died of a heart
attack. The corpse has been taken to the morgue without a postmortem,
but has mysteriously disappeared. The morgue security- guard Torres
(Miquel Gelabert) has been scared out of his wits - so much so that he
runs out of the building and is knocked down by a car. Inspector Jaime
Peña (José Coronado) investigates the crime, but finds the task
difficult as he is still plagued by the memory of his wife's death a
decade earlier in a hit-and-run accident. Sometimes his emotions get
the better of him.Set largely in and around the morgue, Oriol Paulo's film is a
masterpiece of modern film noir, complete with dark shadows, long
tracking shots down corridors, and point-of-view shots where we share
the protagonists' uncertainties about what is going on. To complicate
the plot still further, he introduces flashbacks into the past lives of
Jamie and Álex, to show how the past exerts an almost paralyzing
influence over the present. The action takes place one dark night, where the rain pours down
outside, confining all the characters to the claustrophobic space of
the morgue. Within that space, Jaime apparently tries his best to tease
out the truth of the crime, but Álex keeps resisting him. On the other
hand, Álex tries to communicate with his girlfriend Carla (Aura
Garrido), in an attempt to elope with her, but finds his endeavors
continually frustrated by circumstances. Neither he nor Jaime can
apparently obtain what they want. In this disordered environment, the
logic of cause and effect has been deliberately disrupted.As the action unfolds, so director Paulo further complicates the action
by introducing sequence that represent projections of the protagonists'
imagination; in other words, putting their assumptions on screen. This
further complicates our comprehension of the plot; we have no idea how
to separate 'truth' from 'fiction'. This confusion makes the dénouement
all the more shocking.Brilliantly performed, with Coronado giving a quite outstanding
performance as the guilt-ridden inspector, THE BODY deserves to be
considered a modern classic.
