1
This was utterly amateurish film

The story is full of plot holes and the characters are full of
1-dimensional simpletons.Elysium, can heal anyone at any time at no cost, in minutes! Except
that it won't because the people of Elysium are cruel, evil, and
utterly malicious. Literally Hitler.The bad guys continue to be bad guys, for no apparent reason or
motivation. Just because it's fun!! List of plot holes: 1. They can restrict air traffic, but re-open it as they are
transporting a high-value target? 2. They need to use radiation on robots? Why? 3. The floor manager is cruel enough to force you to do dangerous
life-threatening actions because he can? 4. The smugness and evil of the Elysium-citizens... "Don't breathe in
my direction!" Seriously? Who wrote this, a 12 year old writing a comic
book? 5. They can make people explode with auto-tracking homing ninja
grenades--yet they can't do that for Matt Damon? 6. You can literally change the president by patching a computer? 7. A CEO understands and writes machine code to control the whole of
Elysium? 8. A CEO is hired by Jodie Foster to replace the President of Elysium
with herself--but the CEO doesn't do it for himself?? He carries the
code on his person??? 9. In the future, we need system reboots for the whole space station?
WHAT? 10. You can only download if you kill the person who has the files? Why
not just destroy the files in unauthorized access? 11. Earth is poor and overpopulated, and they just declare everyone
citizens and hand out free medical care at no cost or problem??? 12. Earthlings are poor and non-citizens but they can afford to build
giant spacecrafts to illegally land on a space station, are you kidding
me??? 13. 3 special forces guys and one poor Earthling named Matt Damon can
literally overthrow the whole of the Elysium government?14. They can shoot electricity at people like a Taser, but they can't
disable spacecraft with targeted Electromagnetic pulses? 15. The Elysium government doesn't want to kill illegal immigrants
openly--but they are fine with letting them all die instead of giving
out free medical treatment?Literally this script is written by people who don't know how to
restart their computer.
