1
All fans of Kick-ass should avoid this film like the plague

In March of 2010 a film by director Matthew Vaughn was released that
took everybody watching it by surprise. This was a movie that people
had so little faith in that it had to be independently funded and put
together on a shoe string budget. This was a movie that held up a
satirical mirror to a whole genre of movies and not only highlighted
their weaknesses but also showed that genre how it was done. This movie was of course, Kick-Ass. On paper it was never going to work. It was a movie about some weedy
teenage geek who decides to become a superhero and ends up caught in a
war between another crazed costume vigilante and a whole crime family.
This on its own would be a hard enough premise to sell to both
investors and viewers but throw in an eleven year old crime fighting
girl who basically butchers everyone she meets, it seemed impossible
that it could be a good movie. But boy were we wrong. We were all made to eat our pre-judgement of
that film and got to enjoy a wonderfully told, well shot and perfectly
scored movie that was not just one of my favourite movies of 2010, but
is genuinely one of my favourite movies ever. With that in mind it is clear why I can feel so strongly about how
terrible this movie was. Jim Carrey was right to turn his back on this
movie because it butchered the memory of the first movie and basically
went against everything that the first Kick-Ass film stood for. The fears with the Kick-Ass story in general was that it glorified
violence for little or no reason. The story and the deeper themes that
run through the first movie offset that fear, this film fully realises
it. There are no clever under tones, no juxtaposition for the highly
choreographed violence with the scenes that highlight the gritty
realism of true life. What I just witnessed was 103 minutes of bloody violence, needless
vulgarities, ridiculous names taken too far and no redeeming features
whatsoever. This was all violence for the sake of violence and that is
not what I watch movies for. This was clearly made by people who seemed
to have completely missed the point of the first movie and just wanted
to make the very movie that I had presumed Kick-Ass had been made to
speak against.I will stop there because I could go on for hours stating how terrible
this movie ended up being. I just wish that there was some kind of
erase button I could press to scrub the memory of that movie from my
mind. Alas there isn't so I post this review in an effort to save you
the same torment, stick with the first film which is a masterpiece and
don't watch this travesty of a so called sequel.
