5
Potential Not Reached:  The Gunman Is Realistic, but Boring

When you hear a movie titled the Gunman what do you think of? For me I
think of a few scenarios that come to mind: an action pack shoot em up
movie, something on the lines of James Bond, or following down the
rogue agent Bourne pathway. So I can't help but say I was excited for
this movie this weekend, especially with Sean Penn leading the cast.
With few trailers to give me insight, I eagerly headed to my local
theater to give this film a try. Unfortunately the movie did not go down the expected path, and even
worse it took the wrong direction for this reviewer. For those
uncertain of the plot, Gunman is about a sniper named Terrier who is
targeted for assassination by an unknown group. In order to save
himself and his loved ones, he must dig deep into a convoluted scheme
that may related back to an incident. I know sounds awesome right, if
old hat, but Gunman held some promise of action mixed in with good old
fashioned spying. Not the case my friends. Gunman is actually a snooze fest, being one of
the first movies to make me nap in almost half a year. It starts with
the pace of the movie, not necessarily too slow, but just enough that
you start to lose interest. For me, it wasn't that the plot was boring,
but the details they tried to lay out for us were very convoluted, many
details ambiguous and confusing in their presentation. May of the
scenes involved him obsessing over his former love, which after a few
arguments and an unnecessary sex scene, started to grow staler than
month old bread. Now don't get me wrong, convoluted plots can be a good
thing, but they require a good presentation that keeps one engaged in
the movie. And this film did not do it for me. Perhaps I could have been entertained more if the action had lived up
to my, I'll admit, high expectations. The opening shot scene was
nothing special, but the following skirmish held some promise for
excitement down the line. And in truth, two or three battles brought
the flash in the pot, bang in your ear entertainment that I so crave.
Despite being an elite shooter, Terrier didn't have perfect accuracy,
and had to pull some creative stunts to take down his killers, who by
the way could actually hit him. Taking away our hero's invincibility
was a smart move, but some battles get led down the wrong path, or are
a repeat of an earlier fight. Kills are graphic, the camera not shying
away from someone's head getting a new hole, as torrents of red litter
the ground. If you are up for this kind of stuff, then by all means
stop reading this review and head down to the theater. Looking back
over the movie though, I can't say the action was as on point or
exciting as I had hoped, nor as fast as these scenes sometime need to
be. Helping save this movie from complete failure was the acting. Sean Penn
as Terrier was good. The actor was able to transition across the
emotional spectrum, being a relief worker with a little troublemaker
streak to an angry killer on the loose. Penn has always had a talent
for playing well developed characters, and while annoying as this role
is, he still plays it well. Jasmine Trica as Annie was a decent
addition to the cast, though I must say her character could have been
much stronger than they made her. Trica's main talent involved huffing,
puffing, and crying as people died. Her dialog was too shallow for me
and they threw her as nothing but an object for Terrier to protect.
Javier Barden brings his Hispanic background back to the screen, but
his role was very short and unfortunately very sad as a love obsessed,
drunk who loses his min. Not my favorite role, but again he does okay.
As for Idris Elba, he is hardly in the film for fifteen minutes, really
only to bring some "coded" advice and a means to end the movie. No
offense Elba, but had you been tailing Penn for the whole movie, I
might have boosted your score.Special effects wise the editing worked for me in this movie. Stable
camera angles and detailed fighting helped bring the action to life.
The battlefields that became the stage for our fights were also
beautiful, crafted or located in a variety of settings. Some were cool
like a mansion, and others were ridiculous, like at a matador arena.
Nevertheless we had an epic soundtrack to add some slight touches of
excitement to the mix, as well as high definition pings, twacks, and
booms to nearly deafen your ears. Unfortunately the team's cuts of the
footage were nowhere near perfect for me, even though they were under
the 2 hour mark. I don't know why they kept half of the dialog heavy
scenes in, especially when they kept us going in circles. Oh what a
waste of good film..The Gunman is not the movie I expected it to be, and despite the
assembled cast of actors, the potential is lost to fast production.
With an overly ambiguous plot, and a pace that moves like a snail, the
execution of this movie was below par. Those who are fans of extreme
violence and profanity, as well as shots of poverty Africa are at home
in this film, but otherwise skip this film for something better. A trip
to the theater is not recommended from me, but we all know enough
desire can make you see anything. Overall my scores for Gunman are:Action/Crime/Drama: 6.5 Movie Overall: 5.5
