9
Hold onto that feeling

Just a small town girl, living in a lonely world. Just a city boy... No, wait. Hear me out. Granted, it's initially hard to sell Your Name - a meet cute anime
twist on Freaky Friday - as a worthwhile recipient of its considerable,
well-deserved hype, rather than a big screen, big budget rendition of
Fruits Basket. But the hype is real. Inauspicious or not,
writer/director Makoto Shinkai's film is somewhat of a genre-bending
game changer - a film so special that the struggle to properly do
justice to it leaves me resorting to inelegantly cherrypicking from a
slew of contemporary allusions (the elegant loneliness of Murakami; the
mischievous whimsy of Wong-Kar Wai; an Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless
Mind interwoven with The Breakfast Club with the most imperceptible
pinch of your average buddy cop comedy comedy for spice), while it is
still far more than the sum of their parts. In short, it's one of the
most unexpected, simple but profound, entrancing, and poetically
beautiful films to cross screens in years. It's as fun as it is
melancholy, as unforgettable as it is sweetly unassuming. Even better -
it's that rare anime where comparisons to Studio Ghibli aren't simply
lip service, but actually warranted in terms of exquisite, painstaking
heart and attention to detail. Yes, really. But such lofty praise is actually far from the spirit of a film that
goes about its remarkable business with a cheeky subtlety. Shinkai
wisely plays off the initial silliness of his concept, with the early
body swap sequences staying rooted in lighter, bawdier humour,
playfully portrayed with a springy, sassy wit keeping even the broadest
moments no less human and adorable for their broadness. The conceit
itself is kept indifferently vague, apart from the haziest of nods to
traditional spirituality - it's not the 'how' that matters here
anywhere near as much as the 'what.' Similarly, there's a clearly
delineated dichotomy between the two protagonists' 'tradition vs.
modernity' milieus (with larger, extrapolating themes of supplanting
history and cultural longing spanning generations to be teased out by
those keen enough), but Shinkai is content to let the contrast sit,
rather than milking it for shoehorned theme, or garish social
commentary. More than anything, the film captures that ethereal but omnipresent
sense of vague dissatisfaction, longing, and persistent but
directionless striving that is bound to feel almost achingly familiar
to any given audience member, regardless of age, nationality, or
standing in life. Shinkai takes a distressingly familiar sense of
ennui, and infuses it with a melancholy grace, a feeling accentuated
hugely by the film's simply gorgeous, sweeping artwork, infusing
panoramas of mountain-dwarfed Japanese countrysides and bustling Tokyo
skyscrapers with an unbelievable level of composition and care. When
the film glissandos into a third-act twist that is as devastating as it
is unpredictable for all but the most eagle-eyed of viewers, it
transcends into a piece of larger-than-life folklore, conjuring an
almost feverishly heightened viewership that redefines magnetic, before
culminating with a quiet grace note that ties up the emotional knot in
ways both elegiac and unforgettably uplifting. It may sound like a
perennial squall of emotional peaks and valleys, but Shinkai surfs it
with nonchalant poise, with his rock-steady pacing lending the film an
almost uncanny gestalt. Upon the arrival of the closing credits, don't
be surprised to hear a wet gasp, equal parts tearful and jubilant,
erupting from your throat, unsolicited. You won't be alone in doing so. If there are any imperceptible faults to be found, it's that Shinkai's
perhaps inevitable leaning on anime tropes do, at times, dip the film
into conventions it would normally nimbly leap over. The occasional
conflict-expanding plot device or bombastic musical interlude,
particularly in gearing up for the film's climax, strain convention in
ways that are only startling in their inconsistency with the film's
customary elegance, while lead actors Mone Kamishiraishi and Ryûnosuke
Kamiki, while both lending credibly commanding voices, are as
hyperbolic as they come in their grunts, gasps, and other
verbalizations reacting to their bizarre circumstances. Still, these are the faintest blemishes on the face of a truly
beautiful, touching film, that truly demonstrates that the affective
potential of traditional animation still has many wrinkles of uncanny
power yet to unfurl. So do yourself a favour: believe the hype. Invest
in Your Name. If you have any space amidst the ensuing deluge of
feelings, you may just thank yourself you did. -9.5/10
