3
DULL with little bite.  Depp is playing dress up

Oh the possibilities that were missed here. Except for the character
names and a similar architecture in the house this film bares very
little resemblance to DARK SHADOWS. The movie starts out beautifully
and then goes off in so many awkward directions that it never finds
what kind of movie it's trying to be. A few scattered laughs here and
there do not compensate for a poorly conceived story that meanders
itself to the point of being dull and confusing. What can you say about
a movie that only comes to life in it's montages set to a pop songs
from the early 1970's? Depp doesn't even attempt to capture any of the
guilt ridden angst of Barnabas Collins. His Barnabas is a trick or
treat Pirates of the Caribbean, very much like a kid playing dress up
on Halloween and with two emotions, upset and more upset. Film has some
nice set pieces but Burton doesn't bring any true Gothic feeling or
sense of dread to the surroundings. The script has that throw
everything up against the wall and see what sticks feel to it. Burtons
direction comes off in a conveyor belt "okay, let's shoot this one"
tone with interest only in visuals, which are striking. He's really
more of a visual artist than he is a film director. Indeed, one gets
the feeling that this film would never have been made if not for Johnny
Depp and his love for the original series which is evident here. It's
unfortunate that he relies too heavily on make up to carry his
performance. Helean Bonham Carter has no interest in being in the film
and it shows, doing it only as a favor to her husband. Eva Green is the
type of actress Tim Burton is attracted to and loves to cast in his
films, but she possesses little of Angelique's spellbinding jealousy.
The only one in the cast that has a hint of what these surroundings
should be played like is Michelle Pfeiffer. She is the Grande dame of
Dark Shadows capturing both the Gothic feel of the original story and
the magnificence of the character.
