9
Stunningly accurate look at the bipolar life.

I am bi-polar. I have been that way since I was a young man. I am
approaching 60. I have been in treatment for many years. There have
been relapses and time spent in hospitals. There have been good times.
Before I received good treated, I left a trail of emotional,
professional, and relational disaster behind me. It broke apart the
lives of others as much as it did my own.I did not know what to expect from this movie. It is a stunningly
accurate trip into the mind of a BP sufferer. It shows the disease from
the outside, too. It is amazing in its accuracy. The mood swings, the
detachment from reality, the failure to learn from past errors are
there. Here is a guy who has so messed up he is in the hospital. He is
released into the custody of his parents. He improves himself
physically yet cannot see what he has done, what he is now, and what
the future portends with any sort of reality.There are other situations in the film which mirror the BP life. There
are job losses, broken relationships, unlimited optimism, anger, and a
feeling that no one understands you. But he doesn't even understand
himself. He thinks he is the only sane person around. He is in complete
denial yet goes along with treatment just to get along with others.The obsession with his estranged wife drives him. Everything he does is
to make himself look desirable to her.Then there is the hair trigger and the propensity toward violence which
ultimately put him into the hospital. He has the belief that he sees
with much more clarity than anyone else. There is also the hatred of
medications and the belief that he doesn't need them.Yet, there is hope. There is no miraculous cure. There is a negotiated
peace between his illness and the way he must be to survive in the
world.The only thing I felt was missing was the crushing depression. But I
understand that. Depression makes for lousy movies. The film is
strictly about a manic life that wants to be better but cannot accept
that he is badly off dead center normal.If you are bi-polar and under control, see this film! If you live with
or deal with a BP, see this movie. If you are untreated, you won't get
it because BP clouds the mind.My new wife and I went to see it. Up front I told her that I had this
mental illness. She still married me. She is a health care worker with
an understanding of illness and of treatment. After the film she asked
me what I thought.I told her that I was a bit frightened to tell her that the portrayal
is spot on and that I had seen all of it before.But like all bipolar sufferers, I wanted her to know that "I was never
that bad." The truth is, I was....but we BP people don't handle reality
all that well.
