2
Utterly ridiculous...and not in a good way.

I walked into "Texas Chainsaw" with my usual tempered expectation when
seeing a horror film. We all know that maybe one out of ten releases
nowadays is actually good and scary...if we're lucky. And seeing as
this one was dumped on the first Friday of the year, it didn't bode
well for great expectations from Lionsgate. However, it was distributed
by, well, Lionsgate.Alas, the umpteenth sequel to the 1974, although based on a great
concept, is a fail.Despite the many follow-up films on the subject, this film is, in a
round-about way, a sequel to the 2003 remake of the 1974 original. The
original was directed by Tobe Hooper, and Hooper himself helped produce
not only this film but the 2003 remake (which inexplicably changed the
family name of the murderous family) and the 2006 prequel, but the
current film actually uses scenes from the 1974 original (and the
original family name of Sawyer) as it's jumping-off point, which gave
the film some instant weight for fans of the franchise.However, the weight was lifted real quick.In short, right after the events of the original film, some of the
residents of the town of Newt, Texas burn down the house where the
original massacre occurred with the entire Sawyer clan inside, but not
without one baby surviving the inferno. Said baby grows up never
knowing what had happened until she randomly receives word that her
long lost grandmother has passed on and left her with an inheritance,
resulting in the realization that her abusive parents are not her birth
parents. She leaves to check out what she has received, but not without
some friends coming along (of course)....and picking up the atypical
Texas Chainsaw hitchhiker in the process. Needless to say, the
inheritance came with something a little bit unusual, carnage sorta
ensues and what could have been a great twist is ruined by the sheer
implausibility of the execution of the story.And that is ultimately where the issues with this film lie...in the
details. Never mind little stupid things like the fact that the house
burning down at the beginning of the film happened on August 19th and
somehow, the newspaper which reported the story was also dated August
19th (rather than the 20th). It's the major implausible details like
four friends leaving a mansion full of silver to get groceries to be
"cleaned up" by a hitchhiker they just picked up or the fact that a
rotting corpse is randomly found by Heather Miller, the inheritor, and
then never once mentioned again. As the story unfolds, it completely
falls apart and you risk missing something unimportant because you are
too busy rolling your eyes or wondering how a character went from A to
B or from caring to not caring. The story just ended up not making any
sense.Why RnB artist Trey Songz chose this train wreck to launch his acting
career is beyond me, but his character is as unoriginal as his music.
Other than Songz, the cast is mainly made up by mediocre, little-known
television actors not worth mentioning except with the inclusion Shaun
Sipos as the hitchhiker and Scott Eastwood (yes, son of Clint who,
until recently, went by the name Scott Reeves) as a police officer,
both of whom are absolutely excellent eye candy.So, was I entertained? Well, I wasn't BORED...but this film is
definitely a fail in terms of plot and execution and wasn't even so bad
it's good. But if you do decide to see it, do not pay extra for 3D if
you do not have to but do wait for the end of the credits to get a good
grin.
