10
High Concept Intrigue

Looper seems like it's inspired by Philip K. Dick's several works. It's
a Sci-Fi story that is set in the future with a quite interesting
concept. The ads shows this as a typical nonstop action film.
Surprisingly, it's much better than anyone would expect. It's actually
a mind blowing film that tells an unpredictable story and has a great
amount of thrills. The performances are strong and the directing is
solid. Unlike most modern Sci-Fi films they depend on the action and
the explosions. Looper is all about letting the audience intrigue all
the way on the concept.The important thing you should expect in this film is the brilliance of
the concept than the action. Yeah, there's fighting and gunfights but
it's mostly about the idea. The film tells it in a stylish and mind
boggling way which makes it compelling. The story development is
clever. The first half lets the viewers root for the film's world until
the plot twists. It's great when a scene suddenly becomes confusing
then it all make sense afterwards. Aside of its storytelling, Joseph
Gordon-Levitt did a great job playing the young version of Bruce Willis
as he imitates Willis' accent and gruffness. He still plays the role
with his own style. Gordon-Levitt is energetic and striking. The rest
of the cast are excellent.The production design is decent. Its futuristic world looks magnificent
and their weaponry looks awesome. The camera-work is one of the merits
of the film. It makes the action look stylish and brings cool vertigo
to the trippy moments. Every shot of the film is impressive. The most
interesting one is when Joe was in the fields, you prominently see a
cloud trail on the sky remarking the scene. The script is smart enough
for explaining its concept and making things gripping.Looper is one of those films that would stuck in your head in a long
time because it's plain brilliant. It's so different to popular modern
Sci-Fi films. This film is not an action movie cookie-cutter that
leaves the high concept as the background of the film. This film simply
narrates, mind-bends, and intrigues which makes it amazingly
interesting. The idea is original with some inspiration. Looper has the
art, the heart, the tension, and the brains that any science fiction
fans would love.
