10
Affleck delivers another amazing film

After years of being one of those actors that was hit and miss with
people, who would have thought he would become one of the most sought
after great directors in the industry. After his last film The Town
received so much acclaim and award nominations everyone was wondering
if it was just a fluke. His latest film Argo takes on the actual events
during the Iran Hostage Crisis finds him once again taking on double
duties with directing and starring, but can he bring these events to
life and create another great film along with it? Argo follows the unbelievable true story of six Americans that have
found shelter with the Canadian ambassador in Iran when the revolution
reaches a boiling point. The CIA works alongside some heavy hitters in
Hollywood to create a fake film production to concoct a risky plan to
try and get them out of the country. For a movie that focuses on a
situation that was so dire and heavy, this film comes off a bit lighter
than expected. Ben Affleck has crafted a brilliantly entertaining film
on numerous levels. The story alone is intriguing watching their
unbelievable plan come to life. During this time of the film it
delivers some really funny moments, without falling to far off track
and confusing the kind of film this is. The acting here is top notch
with everyone involved, including Affleck himself delivering some
awesome performances. The dynamic between Affleck and Breaking Bad star
Bryan Cranston is perfect creating a duo that both entertain as well as
keep this story on track. The biggest treat in this film are brilliant
and a lot of time funny performances from John Goodman and Alan Arkin.
These guys really bring all the Hollywood aspect to the film to life
while delivering Oscar worthy performances that will hopefully be
recognized. The gritty look to this film really helps to capture the
vibe and tone of the film while combined with the attention to detail,
helps take you into the time period it takes place.Brilliant directing, acting, story and some fun sci-fi references
throughout takes Argo into the realm of one of the best films to come
along in some time. Affleck proves once again of his talent as a
director and that The Town was no fluke. This is a must see film that
will no doubt be all-the buzz when award season comes around and
deserves every bit of it.
