9
Visual poetry - and a celebration of human resilience as well as an ode to the savage beauty of nature

A lot has been said and written about this film, mostly about its
troubled production - forget all that: it has no meaning whatsoever for
the experience this film provides. A word of advice though: if you go
in expecting a testosterone-fueled revenge thriller in the vein of
'Apocalypto', you'll likely end up disappointed. It's simply not that
kind of film - but that doesn't mean you won't enjoy it if you watch it
with the right expectations.'The Revenant' opens with images from a dream; we see snippets of
memories showing a peaceful life - and soon the loss of that peace, and
the loss of life. The images change and we hear the soothing sound of
gurgling water as we follow the camera via a long tracking shot over a
flooded forest; it's an image that seems to imply peace, evoking
nature's beauty with an almost meditative quality - before the barrel
of a rifle appears in the frame.Those first three minutes I just described (which are the only spoilers
you will get in this review) set the tone for the film perfectly. It's
a film that tells a story of harrowing circumstances through images
that are breathtakingly beautiful; a film about survival and death and
shocking acts of sudden violence - and yet a film that, despite all its
visceral intensity, also has a quiet, immersive quality to it that
feels almost hypnotic.Many critics and reviewers have pointed out the stark contrast between
the film's poetic beauty and the ugliness of its violence - implying
the director wanted to use this contrast to make a certain point
regarding mankind's interference with nature. While that would seem
pretty obvious (and it probably is at least partly true), I left the
film feeling I単arritu had shown a vaster, far too complete image of the
clash between man and nature to justify such a simplistic
interpretation of the events portrayed on screen. Whether intentionally
or not, I単arritu shows the star of his film with a complexity and
honesty that we normally don't get to see in these kinds of stories.
And I'm not talking about Leonardo DiCaprio here (who gives a
no-holds-barred, crazy good performance and I'd love to see him win an
Oscar for this film) - the star of this film is not a person: it IS
nature, plain and simple.The revenge plot - which felt almost like an afterthought or a ploy to
give the film a certain structure and a proper ending - is not really
the film's main theme or strongest aspect, and it certainly isn't the
reason that made this film so compelling to watch for me. Such stories
have been told often enough - and often better - than in 'The
Revenant'. No, what really made this film stand out for me is that I
have NEVER seen a Hollywood film (any film, really - apart from
documentaries) that showed nature in such an unflinchingly honest and
mesmerizing way as was the case here. And the way I perceive it,
I単arritu sees his human protagonists as being very much a part of
nature as a whole - regardless of their destructive behaviour. It's that refreshingly wholistic approach (which some viewers might
perceive as nihilism on the director's part) that I found to be the
film's biggest accomplishment: it depicts the people in this story as
just another species trying to survive in that perilous frontier-world.
The emphasis is not really on the moral aspects of the brutal injustice
that the main character suffers or how the Native Americans are cruelly
exploited; we witness all that - but I単arritu keeps a certain emotional
distance, as if he were shooting a documentary about predatory
wildlife. And just like the bear's attack, most of the violence in this
film comes as a reaction of defense. Be it self-defense, defending
one's offspring or defending territory and valuable resources. Even the
character that comes closest to an actual villain is driven by fear -
not hate, and his most obvious character defects were caused by a very
traumatizing experience. As in nature, there is a simple (if often
brutal) logic to why most characters, men or beasts, act the way they
do in 'The Revenant' (OK, maybe not the French - but I didn't say the
film was perfect, did I). And the bear attack was the most realistic
depiction of an animal attack I have ever seen on film.All in all, this film felt less like a story of revenge and more like
an ode to the visceral beauty of nature and the relentless, savage
force that is life; it provides an immensely absorbing - and touching -
experience to those who have an affinity for the wilderness, but it's
also a visual masterpiece and a great piece of old-school filmmaking
for lovers of Cinema. It's not perfect (especially during the last
third of the film where I felt the pacing was a bit off), but it's a
film the likes of which we will only rarely get to see - if at all - in
the future. 'The Revenant' is visual poetry of the most primal kind,
and it should be seen on the biggest screen possible. 9 stars out of 10
from me.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-Known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/
