9
Indeed a different vampire movie, avoiding all clichés. Glad to have seen this is possible

I saw this film as part of the Brussels International Fantastic film
festival 2013 (BIFFF), where it was the main course of the opening
ceremony, featuring director Neil Jordan as the guest of honor. It was
a very unusual opening night (I say this as an experienced film
festival visitor): we had to wait outside the venue for a very long
time (for reasons unknown), access control was sketchy (to say the
least), the audience was very noisy (especially in the beginning, but
reduced considerably once the story in the film took off), and there
were several people in obvious disguise (a priest, a soldier, and many
others) whose task it seemed to entertain the public before the actual
event started. At last, we (over 2000) found our places and sat through
obligatory speeches (intermixing french and dutch, while the other
language appeared as subtitles on screen), mentioning all sponsors
(accompanied by boo's and/or applause from the audience), handing over
an award for Neil Jordan and knighting him in the order of the Raven,
and finally the screening of Byzantium what it was we all were waiting
for.The category labels "Horror, Vampire" did me hesitate somewhat
beforehand. But I must admit, after all, that the net result did not
disappoint, at the same time demonstrating how difficult it is to
categorize a movie in an informative way. In his short introduction
(ultra short, not by his fault), director Neil Jordan assured us that
this vampire film was "different", and his words proved to be very
true. The vampires we saw here could live normal lives in broad
daylight, and even were visible in a mirror. All the standard things we
see in middle-of-the-road vampire movies, were avoided. The film makers
were right in this, since the story can easily do without these clichés
and stand on its own feet. So no crosses, no holy water, and no
coffins. And finally, no horrendous screaming and no squeaking doors
either, both seemingly unavoidable in any "horror" movie.There was an ingeniously constructed story, that brought all the
elements of love and hate, loyalty, and reluctance to harm (or let
harm) someone loved. There is even a vampire brotherhood that refuses
women as members, or even to exist as vampires, hence continuous hunts
for our two main characters to eliminate them. For spoilers sake, I
refrain from giving more details here. Especially what it is that binds
the two women, who are telling everyone they are sisters and that one
is appointed as legal guardian over the other when their mother died,
is an important element that is kept for us until the finale. Even
their age and their origins are revealed to us along the line in very
small doses.On the deserted island (of course cursed, according to some seamen) we
see the mountains suddenly covered with blood when someone enters the
mysterious cave and decides to give up his soul. Even worse, we see the
phenomenon repeated several times with different persons undergoing the
ritual. I don't think this contributes much, and rather distracts us
from what it really is all about. The multitude of birds that each time
leaves the scene on the crucial moment, has much more impact to
underline the mystery of the ritual and could on itself be enough,
However, since blood is a core element in vampirism, I assume that this
abundance of blood could not be left out, if only to satisfy the
average viewer who assumes this is part of the deal. For the record, I
consider this my only minus point for the whole movie.All in all, I was very happy to see the clichés of vampirism avoided,
and even the appearance of blood was reduced to a necessary minimum.
This won't satisfy the average vampire movie lover, but that is not my
problem. The underlying plot, combined with the way it is brought to
us, makes this into a totally "different" vampire movie, just as the
director announced in his introduction. Nearly two hours running time
is above average for the hasty ones among us, but in my opinion well
spent.
