9
Beautiful, Enchanting and Bold

Director Joe Wright's adaptation of Leo Tolstoy's 1877 novel Anna
Karenina is one of the most visually stunning and artistically bold
films I've seen in quite some time. Wright places most of his plot
within the confines of a dilapidated theatre and has his actors make
use of the stage, stalls and behind the scenes areas when forming the
sets of late Tsarist Saint Petersburg. Actors will walk from one part
of the theatre to another with sets and costumes changing around them,
all with the hustle and bustle of both a real theatre and lively city.
It's a stylistic decision which was probably met with scepticism by
studio bosses and the like but works incredibly well to bring to life
the characters which themselves are so wonderfully written by Tolstoy.Joe Wright was lucky in a way in that he started off with a fantastic
story, written by Tolstoy. This was then adapted by Oscar winning
screenwriter Tom Stoppard who handed Wright and his cast a beautifully
well crafted script which despite its complexities, rolls of the
tongues of the talented cast. I have never read the source novel and
have in fact never managed to finish any of the great works of Russian
literature (the names don't help) so the plot was new to me. The themes
of love, infidelity, trust and city vs countryside-life charge out of
the screen and most are tackled very well. One area which I thought was
slightly forgotten was the fascinating part of the plot regarding Levin
(Domhnall Gleeson). Levin is in love with an attractive and highly
sought after young Princess, Kitty (Alicia Vikander). His tale of love,
family, hardship and politics feels slightly brushed to one side which
is a shame as his arc also points towards the social upheaval which
would greet Russia in the coming decades.The first half of this film was probably my favourite half of any I've
seen in the cinema this year. It whizzed along thanks to the dialogue,
plot and interesting design. The problems that I have with some period
dramas such as dull ideas and duller characters felt a million miles
away as I watched, transfixed with a smile on my face. The highlight of
the entire film for me was a ball in which some of the central
characters danced. This was a scene full of careful manoeuvring,
examination and lust as the two lovers become intimate for the first
time. Onlookers watch on as Anna and Count Vronsky dance a waltz to an
ever quickening pace. Kitty watches with horror as she sees the man she
thought was hers slip away. The dancing itself is beautifully
choreographed and came as close to art as I've seen dance be. Due in
part to the nature of the story, the second half of the film doesn't
quite live up to the pace or intensity of the opening half but is
nonetheless interesting, dark and impressive.There are three things which make Anna Karenina one of my favourite
films of 2012 so far. The first is the story, the second is the
direction and the third is the acting. Every single member of the cast
dazzles here with not one actor giving a misjudged or poor performance.
The standout for me is Jude Law whose mild mannered and restrained
performance is simply incredible. He maintains grace and dignity
despite having a terrible spell thanks to Anna and Law manages to
convey all of his emotions in a similar understated way to Gary Oldman
did with Smiley in Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy. He also makes the
audience feel incredibly empathetic towards his character. For an
actress I'm not particularly fond of, Keira Knightly has somehow found
herself with two excellent central performances in two of my favourite
films of the year; this and A Dangerous Method. She feels like the
go-to-girl for this type of role and is excellent although my
girlfriend rightly points out that when she smiles, she looks like
she's about to cry. Aaron Taylor-Johnson also gives a good performance,
despite comedy moustache, as the dashing lover. He is believable as the
swarve and arrogant cavalryman but is outplayed by Law in later scenes.
It's funny to think that ten years ago it would probably have been Jude
Law in the Vronsky role but he has matured as an actor in recent years
and can carry off a character like Karenin with aplomb. Another
standout is Matthew Macfadyen who plays more of a comedy character but
plays it gracefully. Domhnall Gleeson is also superb as Levin.Despite the great acting this is the director's film. The style is so
bold that at first I was worried that it wouldn't work but to keep a
city as vast as Saint Petersburg inside one theatre then having the
rest of the world to play with outside the city was a fantastic idea
which was pulled off with pinpoint precision. There are flaws, for
instance it felt slightly too long and some areas weren't given as much
attention as I'd have liked (two contradictory statements I know) but
overall Anna Karenina is a enchanting film and one of the best I've
seen so far this year.www.attheback.blogspot.com
