5
DHKR: Unfriended- "Skype-net Demon"

Unfriended isn't about killing your most hated adversaries over a
ghost-possessed computer programming. It is, however, about a possessed
computer screen killing the most idiotic and despicable people in the
worst ways possible, so that warrants a recommendation in my book.The story is rather simple; on the anniversary of a bully's death, four
to five of the most disgusting teen "bros" and the sort get up on Skype
doing Christ knows what you do on the Skype before the Skype starts to
not act like the Skype. Did I mention Skype is in this film? 'Cause it
is. Anyway, the ghost of the bully posses the internet and instead of
ruining the lives abroad and giving Miguel Arteta and Lily James the
glorious TMZing of their life, she instead just goes and
psychologically tortures each worthless waste of life one by one. What makes the film a lot better than most of the watered down Found
Footage films is that both A) Each of the human protagonists being
assaulted by the ghost of 17-year old Skynet girl is a no-good scumbag
you actually want to see perish in the worst way possible, and B) The
film's central theme of cyber bullying being a harsh evil of our own
making gives this a terrifying feel that seems oh so close to feeling
real. If not, well, the ghostly Skynet girl part of it.Well, those of you who only want to see the film for reason A) will be
glad because the film certainly delivers in that. However, I appreciate
an actual moral that genuinely feels scary, much like those old PSAs
about drugs, nukes, and texting while driving. And the fact that our
killer ghost is hidden behind the veil of an anonymous user with a
generic, imageless face hammers in a real dreadful sense, stating that
anyone can do this, anyone can cyber bully and anyone can turn your
life upside down. However, near the end, where we're losing the amount of people to kill,
the story noticeably sinks into oblivion and becomes "just another
Found Footage Horror film." Complete with a liar's subplot and an
ending that, while I'm trying not to spoil it, ruins the message and
any sense of dread. So, if you want to watch Unfriended, be sure to
either the leave the theatre near the end or push pause on the DVD
remote before turning the DVD player off.Final Results: 2 and a Half Stars- C-Ranking
