8
Entrusted with the memories of the past

If you think that the world that George Orwell created in 1984 was a
rigid one they were positively hedonistic compared to the society shown
in The Giver. Playing the title role is Jeff Bridges who is called that
because he has a very special duty to be the one entrusted with the
memories of the past. The ruling body of the society has to be able to
refer to the past to be guided in making decisions. But we can't have
everyone knowing about lest they long for the good things of the past.
It's all been abolished the good and the bad, conformity and sameness
is the order of things. Color is not even allowed everyone wears drab
clothing like they were in prison. The family is abolished, kids are
born and then assigned to nurturers, women particularly go into that
occupation and it is an occupation like being a plumber. A new group of young people are being given new assignments and young
Brendon Thwaites sits eagerly awaiting his occupation. He gets the
prize as he is chosen to be the Receiver of all the past knowledge from
Bridges. His training is to telepathically connect with Bridges all the
experiences of the past, the good and the bad.The use of color in film is never thought of this day, it's simply
assumed that films now will be photographed that way. But The Giver
takes its place along side Schindler's List and Pleasantville in using
color sparingly and to make a point. Color comes into Thwaites world as
it has been in Bridges' and the equation of knowledge with color is a
point well made.When Thwaites decides that there's something more out there than what
he's grown up with, society shakes. None other than chief elder Meryl
Streep wants measures to be taken to stop Thwaites from questioning the
order of things. Thwaits, Streep, and Bridges head a cast that tells a thought provoking
tale of curiosity and rebellion and curiosity in seeking something
better always proceeds rebellion. The film ends abruptly and I suspect
there's some box office soundings being taken to see if a sequel is to
be made. I hope one is, but if it's not The Giver can certainly stand
on its own.
