4
Get ready for disappointment!

Yeah, I was quite disappointed with this film. Allow me to
explain...and this comes with a spoiler warning.When I first heard this was being done, I just shook my head. Because
you had a 1976 film version, a made-for-TV film version (which was
serving as, believe it or not, a pilot for an ongoing series), and a
stage musical(!). So why are we going back to this particular well?
Then I heard the simply adorable Chloe Moretz was cast in the title
role. It did not feel right for me at all, primarily because of Sissy
Spacek, who played the role in the 1976 version at the age of 26. But,
Carrie White, chronologically speaking, was 16 in King's novel. As is
Moretz. Okay. And then I heard this film would be "closer to King's
novel." So I was sold.But as I watched the opening credits I noticed the following:
"Screenplay by Lawrence D. Cohen and Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa." Up to
this point, I had only seen a single writing credit for the latter. And
Cohen wrote the 1976 film. So why was it there? And then I found out:
There are several elements lifted from the earlier film version, to the
point I am certain the WGA required Cohen be given credit. This was
making it less an adaptation of King's novel, and more of a remake of a
37-year-old film. So much for the promise of a closer adaptation.But then it gets worse. Much, much worse. You get your first hint of
foreboding when Carrie tells her mother where she got her power from. I
was left thinking, um..how do you know this? But then we get to the
prom. The video slide show made no sense to me whatsoever. In fact, I
am sure it was placed there as a setup for what happens later, which is
lame, lame, lame. But I digress.Telekinesis is the ability to move and/or manipulate objects with your
mind. And what is Carrie doing? After she locks her mother in a room by
way of super-heating a sliding bolt, the climax shows her levitating
and hovering over a floor, cracking open a stretch of road by stomping
on it, stopping a car from hitting her by creating a force field or
shield, and for good measure, letting another girl know she is pregnant
AND the baby's gender! Carrie doesn't merely have "the power". She is a
full-on mutant! I was half expecting Agent Coulson or Professor Xavier
to make a cameo in a post-credit scene or something.I do not expect King to like this film. I know I didn't. Wait for it on
Redbox if you feel you must watch this waste.
