7
Another visually delightful thing by Tarsem

Mirror, Mirror does not deserve so bad ratings. I've seen worse movies
last year with so bad direction, bad screenplay, or bad acting, and
people gone mad as they were watching the best movies ever. I really
can't understand people's taste.But, yes, I can understand why Tarsem is so underrated, maybe because
few understand his concepts and artistic views. I am following his
career since he was just a video music director, which was a truly
school in his film making process. He brought to the movies a lot of
what make video music so fascinating, like the using of high colors and
impressive structures, making a scene more than just a scene, but a
piece of art in movement, a real dream.The Cell (2000), The Fall (2006), Immortals (2011) and Mirror, Mirror
(2012) are his examples of such visually daring movies that few
directors are able to do. Even his movies suffering from the lack of a
great screenplay (like The Cell, Immortals or Mirror, Mirror itself),
watch his movies is always a delightful thing thankfully to another
very important artist, costume designer Eiko Ishioka (1938-2012),
responsible for bringing to reality all his imaginary since his first
work.Of course that after Shrek, a fairy tale wouldn't be the same, and
that's why the story suffered some changes, but none of them in a
disrespectful way, just some different point of views that really added
something to the plot development and also for some few thrilling
moments. I think that the movie must be seen by a child point of view,
because I'm sure that kids would love this one. It has a funny and
naive humor, but at the same time Julia Roberts provides the most
interesting and sarcastic dialogs and acting, which can be pleasant for
the adults. Even with all that huge costume, it's possible to note that
her Pretty Woman hump prevails and she is really just having some fun
in a completely natural and unpretentious good acting.The final sequence is not that out of context as some has said, first
of all because since the beginning is told that "the kingdom was a
happy place where people danced and sang day and night", and everything
came back to normal when the king arrived again. OK, that Bollywood
thing feels out of context and surreal, but Tarsem is an Indian
director, and his movies are surreal, and that's the fun of watching
them.
