7
rare hint of female teenage sociopathy

I almost never review movies and I often like a tidy ending, but what
intrigued me about this movie is that after scouring reviews, there
were none I could find that touched on what I felt stood about about
this storyline. Even a director-interview touched only on how different
characters dealt with grief in the movie.Sure there was a lot of grief going around, but much more interesting
was the element of a teenage female sociopath. The character of Lily
went beyond simple promiscuity. She upended her former teacher's life.
Was not only adept at seducing men at an early age, but also chronicled
her conquests in her diary in an explicit way that clearly points to
sociopathy.Parallels are drawn between her mother's need for sexual attention and
manipulation with her own. The fact that she didn't take care of her
brother and may have willingly abandoned him suggests something even
more sinister. Particularly the haunting refrain of being touched in
the dark. She gives us no reason to believe that she looks out for her
younger brother, given that she will disappear into the box with him
standing by helplessly. It is part of her power over him that she can
do this without fear of reprisal from him. Ask how she manages to pull
all this over on him and her parents?I came to the conclusion that she had abused her younger brother in
some way, exerting her control over him in the darkness 'when no one
can see.' Getting him to 'touch her' and do her bidding. Why else would
a healthy boy not be able to sleep and instead wander aimlessly in the
night? Why does she go after him, and why does she as the older,
responsible one let it go so far as to allow him to almost meet his
demise?Her father sensed it intuitively, which was why he feared for her early
on and either reacted violently to protect her, or felt she deserved to
be punished. Only a pretty screwed up girl would act out so extremely
at such a young age. The father also recognized narcissistic tendencies
in his wife. Perhaps the mother had a male relative who abused her in
the past and there could have been a continuation of that with Lily as
a child that was not overtly suggested.The mother's downward spiral toward the end also reinforced that notion
as her daughter's disappearance reignited buried psychological trauma
that plays out in a psychotic break for her which is witnessed by the
townspeople. I felt the movie overall was well-acted by all involved
and well-directed. Kudos to the independent film!
