10
The Edge of Seventeen

Kelly Fremon Craig wrote and directed the 2016 coming-of-age story, The
Edge of Seventeen. Starring Hailee Steinfeld, Haley Lu Richardson, and
Woody Harrelson, The Edge of Seventeen tells the ever so familiar tale
of navigating high school and the awkward teenage years just as your
world begins to fall apart. Kelly Fremon Craig follows the formula of a
coming-of-age story while still managing to tug at the heartstrings of
the audience and keep us engaged through the final scene. Brilliantly
written with a wonderful cast, The Edge of Seventeen is sure to gain
attention this Oscar season.Nadine (Hailee Steinfeld) has always been, a little different. There
was a time in her life in which she felt like such an outcast, she
refused to get out of the car and enter school. Everything changed when
she met Krista (Haley Lu Richardson) Finally, Nadine had a friend and
felt like she belonged with someone. Nadine and Krista were attached at
the hip, navigating life's challenges and the unique difficulties of
their lives. Nadine has always felt overshadowed by her older brother
Darian (Blake Jenner) who seems to never have a challenge with any
aspect of his life. Nadine never felt worse about her brother than when
he began dating Krista. The union between Krista and Darian was too
much for Nadine to bear, and she drew a line in the sand presenting
Krista with the ultimatum of choosing between Nadine and her brother.
When Krista refused to answer, Nadine abandoned their friendship
forging through life and high school and every awkward situation that
comes with it friendless and alone, with the exception of her favorite
teacher, Mr. Bruner (Woody Harrelson). Kelly Fremon Craig crafted a brilliant script, reminiscent of Diablo
Cody, with a perfectly conversational tone and wonderfully engaging pop
culture references. The most brilliant aspect of the script was that
each character was fully developed. It is so rare, especially in a
coming-of-age story to have each character so beautifully fleshed out
so the audience can understand the film from each perspective. The Edge
of Seventeen, especially, was dependent upon being able to see the
perspective of each character, as Nadine was often criticized for being
self-centered in her belief that she was the only one experiencing
problems in regards to the change in her family. The edge of Seventeen
was an incredibly relatable story, which is the driving force of a
coming-of-age tale; this inherent relatability is in no small part
aided by the wonderful acting of the film's lead. Hailee Steinfeld
played a perfect lead and was scene stealing and captivating every
moment she was on-screen. Kelly Fremon Craig also makes some brilliant
directorial choices to allow the audience to see their own similarities
to the tale. The fact that the principles attend Lakewood High School
reminds me of a line from A Nightmare on Elm Street, "In every town,
there's an Elm Street. My hometown in Colorado has a Lakewood High
School, and I'm sure, most towns in the U.S. do, as well. The most
striking stroke of relatability is the illustration that we are all
struggling through our own unique journey, and there is no one among us
to save us. Many teenagers believe that when they are an adult they
will have all the answers and won't have to struggle through life so
much, only to find out that it is only the circumstances with which one
struggles with that changes. There is no rule book for understanding
given once one becomes an adult, and there are never any easy answers
no matter how old we become, the best we can do is find someone that
makes the struggle worth it, and navigate life together. The Edge of Seventeen was a bit formulaic and predictable in parts, but
that is easily forgiven, considering it is a coming-of-age film. The
script and cast avoid the predictable hole the film avoided. Whether
you were a Darian, who on the surface never met a struggle, or whether
you were a Nadine, a self-described "old soul" who always felt out of
place in your generation and missed out on the "beer pong ice
breakers", there is something in The Age of Seventeen for everyone.
