1
Yeah, I'm sorry, it is that bad

"Fifty Shades of Grey" is based on a badly written book, so why someone
thought they could make a decent film out of it is beyond me. Actually
I don't think anyone believed they could make a good film, the
producers just wanted the money that would come in from all people who
for reasons known only to themselves read the book.I had a free ticket and I had to go in order to do a story on it.
Bottom line, I'm not doing a story on it.Okay, here's the problem, and this is what breaks my heart. We no
longer know what good or great is. I am no follower of Ayn Rand, but in
The Fountainhead, she predicted the rise of mediocrity, mediocrity
being considered great and the norm we shoot for. It only stands to
reason that at this point, some things can't even rise to that sad
level. This isn't mediocre, it's pathetic. I can't believe there are
people complimenting the actors. But then I can, because they have come
to accept mediocrity. Something I fight against with all my heart.There is one other problem. The book sucked; in order to like it, one
had to use his or her imagination. The success of this book lay in the
fantasy aspect. Sometimes imagination is more powerful than just about
anything and can give you an erotic experience. This film doesn't
fulfill the most inane imagination, let alone someone who really has a
wild and creative one. The only fantasy it can give you is how fast you
can get out of the theater.There were people around me laughing. The ones who weren't left, and
from what I found out in the lobby, actually demanded and got their
money back. When was the last time you saw people leaving a movie in
the middle? I'm not sure I've ever seen it, and I'll guess I've been
going to movies longer than a lot of you.I lament the loss of artistic soul, of creativity, of going for the
best. I miss the days when Billy Wilder was a writer and a filmmaker.
What are we left with but a horrible book written on a first grade
level and the resulting bad movie.
