6
Still an OK film to watch

To begin with, this is the third part of the movie series called Purge.
They all have the same setting, so I highly recommend watching two
preceding films before. However, it is not mandatory. So, main idea of
the film is that American government wants to reduce violence. Even
though their intentions are pretty obvious, the concept of
accomplishing the goal is unique. Creating "Purge" night, where every
act of brutality and violence including murdering and torturing was
allowed, supposed to cut down the level of crime during non-purge
nights. Pretty interesting approach, huh? While first two films were
mostly about characters who wanted to survive, this movie delivers us a
"special" purpose. After so many years of purge, America has finally
found an senator who wants to cancel "death" night. Her name is Charlie
Roan (Elizabeth Mitchell). On the other hand, minister Edwidge Owens
(Kyle Secor) works for the government and wants purge night to continue
its existence. Debates, interviews and dialogues - all this we can see
during first minutes of the movie. This part is pretty interesting and
fits into the "rhythm".During actual purge night, unlike previous films, we see the goal -
make sure senator stays alive. As we all know from Purge: Anarchy, the
best guy to do so is Leo Barnes (Frank Grillo). Film provides us with
basic plot twists and action scenes. Even though, movie involves
intriguing personalities such as Joe Dixon (Mykelti Williamson), Dante
Bishop (Edwin Hodge), Laney Rucker (Betty Gabriel) and Marcos (Joseph
Soria), directors do not provide us with all needed background
information so you can understand their motivation fully. Other
characters are mainly considered as a "crowd actors". Film mainly
consists of action scenes where we only have couple of minutes to be
like "huh, that was intense". After that directors make us to jump into
another location. Having a few drama scenes also makes it even a better
thriller movie. But it still lacks atmosphere and because of fairly
"obvious" goal the ending and plot overall is also pretty clear.To sum up, I would like to tell that I liked the movie. Despite it is
not as well structured as typical good thriller, it gives us an
adrenaline we need during all 100 minutes. On the other hand, I would
not recommend to continue this franchise as it has said everything it
needed to and making another film to "clear" all details is not worth
it. Typically, I would give this film 6.5/10 marks which results in
7/10 on IMDb. However, Purge: Anarchy received 7/10 as well, so it is
fair to give The Purge: Election Year its honestly earned 6/10
considering it has already gathered more than 70 million dollars
domestically.
