7
You won't uncork a bottle of Malbec again without thinking of this film...

"The Girl on a Train" is the film adaptation of the best-seller by
Paula Hawkins, transported from the London suburbs to New York's
Hastings-on- Hudson.It's actually rather a sordid story encompassing as it does alcoholism,
murder, marital strife, deceit, sexual frustration, an historical
tragedy and lashings and lashings of violence. Emily Blunt ("Sicario",
"Edge of Tomorrow") plays Rachel, a divorcée with an alcohol problem
who escapes into an obsessive fantasy each day as she passes her former
neighbourhood on her commute into the city. Ex-husband Tom (Justin
Theroux, "Zoolander 2") lives in her old house with his second wife
Anna (Rebecca "MI:5" Ferguson) and new baby Evie. But her real fantasy
rests with cheerleader- style young neighbour Megan (Haley Bennett) who
is actually locked in a frustratingly child-free marriage (frustrating
for him at least) with the controlling and unpredictable Scott (Luke
Evans, "The Hobbit"). A sixth party in this complex network is Megan's
psychiatrist Dr Kamal Abdic (Édgar Ramírez, "Joy").In pure Hitchcockian style Megan witnesses mere glimpses of events from
her twice-daily train and from these pieces together stories that
suitably feed her psychosis. When 'shit gets real' and a key character
goes missing, Megan surfaces her suspicions and obsessions to the
police investigation (led by Detective Riley, the ever-excellent
Allison Janney from "The West Wing") and promptly makes herself suspect
number one.Readers of the book will already be aware of the twists and turns of
the story, so will watch the film from a different perspective than I
did. (Despite my best intentions I never managed to read the book
first).First up, you would have to say that Emily Blunt's performance is
outstanding in an extremely challenging acting role. Every nuance of
shame, confusion, grief, fear, doubt and anger is beautifully enacted:
it would not be a surprise to see her gain her first Oscar nomination
for this. All the other lead roles are also delivered with great
professionalism, with Haley Bennett (a busy month for her, with "The
Magnificent Seven" also out) being impressive and Rebecca Ferguson, one
of my favourite current actresses, delivering another measured and
delicate performance.The supporting roles are also effective, with Darren Goldstein as the
somewhat creepy "man in the suit" and "Friends" star Lisa Kudrow
popping up in an effective and pivotal role. The Screen Guild Awards
have an excellent category for an Ensemble Cast in a Motion Picture,
and it feels appropriate to nominate this cast for that award.So it's a blockbuster book with a roller-coaster story and a stellar
cast, so what could go wrong? Well, something for sure. This is a case
in point where I suspect it is easier to slowly peel back Rachel's lost
memory with pages and imagination than it is with dodgy fuzzy images on
a big screen. Although the film comes in at only 112 minutes, the
pacing in places is too slow (the screenplay by Erin Cressida Wilson
takes its time) and director Tate Taylor ("The Help") is no Hitchcock,
or indeed a David Fincher (since the film has strong similarities to
last year's "Gone Girl": when the action does happen it lacks style,
with the violence being on the brutal side and leaving little to the
imagination.It's by no means a bad film, and worth seeing for the acting
performances alone. But it's not a film I think that will trouble my
top 10 for the year.(Agree? Disagree? For the graphical version of this review and to
comment please visit bob-the-movie-man.com. Thanks.)
