1
Movies Don't Get Much Worse.

We have our first contender for "Worst Movie of the Year." I doubt it
will get the title, but it'll be close. Journey 2 lacks every element
of film-making. The acting is dreadful. The storyline is flat and
linear. The special effects are extremely bad. Everything about this
movie is forced. There are times where the actors look just as lost and
staged as the script they are trying to bring to life.The movie starts off with Josh Hutcherson running from the police. The
unlikely chase scene sets the stage for the entire movie. Every
character is stuffed into a stereotypical roll. Relationships between
the characters are undeveloped and horribly forced. Character
development is stated and never shown. By the end of the movie, I was
hoping for the demise of each character.I need to spend time on two rants. The first belongs to Luis Guzman.
What the Hell? He obviously was playing a down-on-his luck dumber-than-
most role. Guzman fails on all levels. Once you get halfway through the
movie, you'll start to wonder if he's supposed to be dumb or if he
actually suffers from mental retardation. This isn't acting. It's
laziness. Part of me thinks that Guzman was forced into this role
because of a contract and decided to make it as horrible as possible.Rant number two belongs to Vanessa Hudgens and Director Brad Peyton.
When you portray a young girl in a movie directed at preteens, it is
best to avoid being sexist. Having the only girl in the movie parade
around in a tight, extremely low cut shirt that reveals her midriff is
not okay for a young audience. Add in short-shorts, the fact that she's
drenching in sweat half the movie, and several close-ups of
inappropriate angels (including one camel toe angle) is disgusting. Is
this movie supposed to entertain kids or help train little girls on how
to be sluts? Brad Peyton should not be doing children's movies if this
is going to be what he produces. As for the young actress who is trying
to rebuild he reputation after having naked pictures leaked all across
the internet: What the Hell were you thinking?This is no reason to see this movie. There are no redeeming
characteristics that hold this movie up. From the chest pop to The
Rock's singing scene, I couldn't help but squirm. This movie is
directed towards the younger crowd, I know. But that doesn't mean you
have to dumb down the movie. Didn't Shrek teach us that a children's
film could also be enjoyable for adults? This movie needs to burn in
the shadowy corners of the Underworld. Oh, and the promise of another
sequel makes me contemplate suicide.reillyreviews.tumblr.com
