7
Good Film but Lacks Depth

There seem to be a lot of negative reviews for this movie because of an
apparent mis-telling of the story or true story or hoax or whatever
else people have said. As I'm not American, and have very little to do
with American events (so hence have no context as to the truth or hoax
or conspiracy or whatever of the Boston Marathon) I shall just stick to
reviewing the movie for what it is: a movie.As a movie, they did a great job pulling it together. Mark Wahlberg
plays his character perfectly. I have no idea if thats because of his
acting ability, or if its more the fact that someone has yet again
created a character that fits Mark Wahlberg to perfection. To be
honest, it's probably the latter. Because of that, if you liked Deep
Water Horizon then you'll probably like this because his acting is the
same in both (which works fine because it's similar type of emotion and
adrenaline you'd expect from both situations).The character spread was also well done. You got to see the
impacting/impacted characters early on and had a nice transition
between their development as the movie progressed.My only reservation about the film is that it pretty much gives you no
explanation as to why the bombing even happened. Sure, it's easy for
people to shout that it was terrorism or a hate crime, or done by
hateful people, but that isn't an explanation. It might be true, but
it's not an explanation, it's blatant ignorance which the world can no
longer afford. This film could have benefited so much from shedding
some light on the bombers motivation!!! To be honest, they were
actually the one part that let this film down, Their storyline was
wasted on surface level personality development and retracing of their
steps throughout the event. Instead, the film should have used that
time to instead show their motivation to commit the acts. This would
have deepened their storyline and given the movie as a whole, a much
richer and more stimulating story. In saying that, Themo Melikidze did
a great job of making a believable character out of the little depth he
was given.All in all this was a good film, however, it does lack the depth and
backbone necessary for a second viewing.
