10
This is how a truly scary horror movie should be!

I have been on IMDb for over 10 years and rated over 1195 films but I
have never once posted a review for any of them. For this movie I will post my first review:The films in the horror genre have become monotonous and tiring of
late.We are usually offered two types of horror films: the R rated ones with
a lot of blood and gore which doesn't make it scary, it makes it gross
and disgusting;or the PG-13 ones that can't show too much blood and gore so they will
resort to bombarding the audience with jump scares, cheap thrills, and
every predictable clichés you can think of borrowed from every other
horror film ever made.Then you have the characters. You will always have a group of
superfluous paper thin characters in a horror movie which you know
right from the beginning they are just there to get slashed, mutilated,
beheaded, burned, cut up, sliced up, diced and killed a 1000 different
ways.The Autopsy Of Jane Doe is different. Very little blood and gore. No
clichés, no jump scares. Totally unpredictable. Atmospherically scary
and tense and it's able to achieve that with only 3 main characters in
the film, one of them a corpse.The story is simple: at a bloody and violent multiple murders crime
scene, the police discover the body of a young woman half buried in the
basement.They sent the body to the local funeral home and morgue for the father
and son coroner to perform an autopsy on her and find the cause of her
death.That's where the horror begins and to say more will be to give the
movie away.I think the reason this movie works so well is because it's not a
cookie cutter Hollywood production.It's a British production and the director is Norwegian, famous for the
2010 movie horror film Trolljegeren (Trollhunter).James Wan and James Wong! Are you paying attention? This is how a scary
horror movie should be!By the way, that's a real flesh and blood live actress that plays Jane
Doe, not a mannequin, and she does a damn great job playing a corpse.
