9
Phoenix is the performance of the year!  Anderson excels once again

The Master is absolutely magnetic, orchestrated brilliantly by
writer/director Paul Thomas Anderson and helmed by the commanding turns
of Joaquin Phoenix and Philip Seymour Hoffman.Anderson has never been a director that makes a film for everyone to
enjoy. In the vein of auteur directors like Terrence Malick, David
Lynch, and Michael Haneke, Anderson's films aren't necessarily the most
accessible despite the seeming mainstream status. Films like Boogie
Nights (1997), Magnolia (1999), and There Will Be Blood (2007) are
reflective, tensional, studies of human behavior, all things that the
average film-goer most of the time will not embrace. In The Master,
Anderson constructs, absolutely magnificently I might add, two dynamic,
real, and tangible men that the audience can both imagine knowing,
loving, and loathe. It's the writing masterpiece of the year.Lancaster Dodd (Hoffman) gets the best character blueprints of any
player to interpret. Hands down, the sharpest and best written
character of the film is purely Lancaster. Anderson concentrates on his
motivation and responses, giving him an arc that the audience can both
easily and willingly travel with him. Hoffman's natural talents as an
actor and finding himself in a character are showcased here with
intensity and composure. His often seemingly blood-filled hot-headed
dialogue encompasses some of the best moments of the film. It's evident
Hoffman is not only enjoying himself but enjoying Lancaster. He's both
repulsive but completely enamoring in structure, word, and persona.
Anderson may have created the great oxymoron of cinema this century.
Hoffman is damn-near perfect.The performance of the year... On the flip side, Joaquin Phoenix not
only inhabits a character never seen by him or any actor before but
assembles a man from scratch, beat by beat, trait by trait. It's not
just the finest acting performance of the year, not only the finest
acting performance this millennium, it could be the finest work of the
past twenty years or so. I can only recollect a handful of actors that
have the gumption to stand toe-to-toe with Phoenix's work here. His
Freddie Quell is utterly unpredictable; strutting, glaring, and holding
an explosive mentality that could detonate at any moment. Phoenix
controls it, even though there are many instances where you feel like
he's losing it. Quell is frightening, admitting his evil, unbalance,
and instability. Phoenix externalizes this in his zealous and
disturbing actions but more importantly internalizes it in body
language and character beats that not many actors dedicated to the
craft can achieve. Joaquin Phoenix is not just Oscar-worthy, he's
Oscar-bound. It's the performance you can't deny, the performance of
the year. Let's hope they don't.Where Phoenix and Hoffman are strident and vociferous, Amy Adams is
internal and subtle, but always at the brim. Peggy Dodd is multifaceted
and extremely complex. Adams understands her amazingly well, making
intricate features that are surprising for "good-girl" Adams. She gets
dirty and dominating in not only a prolific manner but in a sultry
method. Adams is a revelation. Laura Dern is brief but memorable; a
missed actress who should be doing more accessible work.Jonny Greenwood's score once again, it's absolutely brilliant, well-
placed, astonishing and among the best composers this year. Mihai
Malaimare, Jr., cinematographer extraordinaire, is just that,
extraordinary. Malaimare is painting scenes on a film canvas and we are
witnessing the artist work. It's as if we're watching Bob Ross teach us
the art of capture. Expect Cinematography to be named among Oscar's
lineup in 2013 along with Film Editing (Leslie Jones, Peter McNulty)
and Production Design (David Crank and Jack Fisk). It goes without
saying, Picture, Director, and Screenplay should be there alongside
them.The Scientology subject is there and there are connections that can be
made but are they obvious or intended? Not necessarily. It's not
evident or offensive. I only hope that Paul Thomas Anderson and the
film doesn't suffer from anyone assuming that its a slight at the group
or any particular one for that matter.Though the film takes time to warm up to, once the film soars, it's
soars high. While The Master is not for everyone and there could be
many detractors, there are three scenes in particular that are
masterpieces in filmmaking. Anderson levels and executes a difficult
subject with no fear or hesitation. He also knows his characters, what
they are, who they are, and marrying the actors to them in a way not
many directors can do. Anderson unites film with art again and The
Master is their bond. It's good to see them together again.
