3
Argo F#ck Yourself

Argo is not a particularly great film but tells an interesting story in
a somewhat ironic fashion. Ironic because the central tenet of the tale
is an imaginary movie and how Hollywood could create a lie to mask the
rescue told in a way that is in itself as big a fantasy as the movie
for that very rescue.I am a big fan of Ben Affleck and enjoy his films and think he is a
capable director. But sadly Argo is pretty dull and even the fake
scenes made up to ratchet up any tension fall flat.The acting is not particularly that good either. Not because the actors
were at fault. Clea DuVall is a fine actress and Arkin and Goodman both
excellent. But sadly the script does not give them a lot to work with.
The fake scenes in the Canadian Ambassadors house are hardly riveting.
Although we do get a bit of Led Zeppelin IV which showed they had some
musical taste.Afflecks character is pretty two dimensional with a bit of a sad family
background thrown in to make us sympathetic. Sadly it does not work.
The CIA look a bit more organised than Zero Dark Thirty but we do get
the odd banging and shouting scenes at the climactic fake finale scene
as they rush desperately to make the flight out of Iran.That whole segment of the film was quite the worst part of the whole
exercise and the shots of the Revolutionary Guard chasing the plane was
frankly silly more than tense. Of course in reality they just turned up
early in the morning and were waved with no fuss onto their escape
flight and the movie cover was barely an aspect of the getaway.Another aspect of the movie was how it makes a point that the British
and New Zealand embassies turned away folks from the American embassy
which was NOT remotely the case and both embassies played a part in
keeping them safe. I understand that for the narrative and pace of the
movie these facts were not addressed. But I don't understand why
Affleck felt the need to lie about what these people did by saying they
did NOT help. Why not just say nothing at all. I guess it is a sop to
the uninformed American audience who like to think that their allies
are so unreliable and it makes the American part in the rescue more
important. The Iranian's or Eyeranians as they have become known don't get much of
a good deal either reduced to screaming lunatics rampaging around the
streets hanging people from mobile cranes. But let's not forget how
they ended up like this due to decades of Western interference. I am
sure the vast majority of people there are decent enough folks. But
America needs its boogie men and after all to be fair the hostage
taking and probably rather frightening captivity of the other 50 odd
Americans was not a fantasy. Overall the lies and fantasy of Argo overwhelm the good parts of the
tale and drag it into the realms of the nick of time Bourne type
thriller without the car chases, shoot outs or cool martial arts
fights.Along with Zero dark Thirty and Lincoln another revisionist pap fest
wrapped in red white and blue. Which is a shame as the real story was
quite a decent tale on it's own but probably not as exciting.
