1
Ex Machina vs Blade Runner

In Blade Runner, human beings create artificial human beings –
"replicants" – for specific purposes, and then feel entitled to kill
them off when their existence is no longer convenient, even though the
replicants are genuinely sentient, conscious, self-conscious beings.
The protagonist, a biological human male, becomes close to a female
replicant, partly through sexual attraction, and decides to rescue her
from her scheduled death. In Ex Machina, a human being, Nathan, creates artificial human beings,
specifically artificially intelligent female robots, for his own
purposes, and then feels entitled to kill them off when their existence
is no longer convenient, even though the robots are genuinely sentient,
conscious, self-conscious beings. The protagonist, a biological human
male, becomes close to a female robot, partly through sexual
attraction, and decides to rescue her from her scheduled death.Perhaps it's just an accident of what I've read, but surprisingly few
of the gushing reviews I've read of Ex Machina take notice of the fact
that so much of its plot is borrowed from one of the best science
fiction movies ever made. Of course there are plot differences. Most
notably, Ex Machina raises more explicit issues about gender, although
reviewers differ whether it is the movie that is sexist or only the
character that produces the female robots or both. In any case, it
appears that part of Nathan's mission is to produce a perfect female
companion, which to him means one that serves you and has sex with you
and is incapable of answering back. There is a trace of this theme in
Blade Runner, in the character of Pris, a replicant whose job is to
serve as a prostitute, but it is much fainter.Even more notable, however, are the differences in what the two films
do with the material. Both movies raise basic philosophical issues
about whether biological human beings are different from
replicants/robots in any morally important ways. Both raise issues
about what it means to be a material and therefore a mortal being. But
Blade Runner reflects on these issues in intelligent and moving ways.
Rachael's anguish at discovering that her precious childhood memories
are not really her own, for instance, raises exactly the sort of
question that philosophers of person identity like to think about:
Suppose that you are about to lose your memory through an illness. The
doctors, however, are able to scan your brain now, and using that scan
to copy your memories back into your brain when you recover. Would
those memories really be any more your own than Rachael's? The
replicants also discuss their attitudes towards death. By contrast, all
we know about the robot in Ex Machina is that she plots to use the hero
to help her escape her death, which is exactly what she was programmed
to do. More generally, in Ex Machina, the philosophical themes are only
brushed on lightly as a way of trying to pass off as a serious film
what is essentially an adolescent boy's fantasy - lots of special
effects, naked nubile females, and guys drinking beer. And an
adolescent boy's nightmare: being tricked by female characters who are
essentially manipulative, think of nothing but sex and how to use it to
get their own ends, and with whom one therefore can never form a
genuine bond.Skip Ex Machina. It's not worth watching even once. Stay home and
stream Blade Runner again instead.
