1
Gravity is Weightless

Did those who've written glowing reviews of Gravity see the same movie
I did? Look, I wanted to like this flick, I really did. And I don't
want to rag on it, but if you're going to make a dramatic science
thriller, you had better get it right or expect to catch it from the
smart people. Despite the cosmic setting, the only star I can give
Gravity is for the computer generated graphics.That said, this is not a
movie for intellectuals and those of a scientific bent will be sorely
disappointed. What made Ron Howard's Apollo 13 so gripping was its
dramatic realism and superb acting. Unfortunately, none of those
adjectives applies to Gravity, with the possible exception of some
drama. However, for thinkers, effective drama requires an intellectual
investment in the credibility of the story, the characters and the
interaction between them. Intelligent humans need to believe that what
is being depicted could actually happen. Unfortunately, the events
depicted in Gravity are likely to alienate anyone with an above average
IQ. Once one has acknowledged the impressive graphics, any anticipation
of emotional investment is quickly dashed to smithereens by the
unbelievably vapid and inane dialog. It is painfully obvious that
someone with a double-digit scientific IQ appears to have awoken one
morning and haphazardly decided to write a "space movie". The physics
are off, the events highly improbable. The entire story demands a
suspension of belief in reality. Worst of all, the dialog and
interaction between the characters is so juvenile that anyone with a
brain gets the immediate impression that the project is the product of
sophomoric show-biz types who think that the way to move the product is
to recycle hackneyed clichés, shiny objects and big explosions.
Bullock's character, Dr. Ryan Stone, is so unprepared and emotionally
disabled by adversity that it is impossible to believe that she would
have been selected as a mission specialist. Yet, she manages to flit
from one space wreck to another and yet another. She consults operation
manuals in Russian and, later, Chinese, yet she is heard muttering
"eeny meeny miney mo" while haphazardly pushing control buttons like
some clueless chimpanzee. The space vehicle's communication equipment
fails to pick up "Houston Control", yet, miraculously, is able to
receive a bizarre Chinese comedy and howling dogs, which Bullock's
character feels compelled to imitate. Clooney's character, Matt
Kowalski, is such a clichéd hero that he is depicted as nonchalantly
jesting with the hysterical Dr. Stone while he himself is drifting into
a desperately life-ending situation. We are expected to believe that,
despite having trained intimately together for this mission, these
characters address each other by their formal titles and make clichéd
announcements back to a non-responsive mission control. Kowalksi has
waited until he's drifting to his death to ask where Dr. Stone is from
and if she has any kids. Finally, director Cuaron makes a supremely
lame attempt at cinematic iconography depicting Bullock floating in a
fetal position, a la Kubrick's Space Odessey. And after having had such
a bad day and having plunged to Earth in a flaming meteor-like reentry,
Stone emerges, unscathed and barefoot mind you, from the ocean onto an
idyllic, uninhabited beach like some primal human emerging from the
sea. Now, I feel bad about feeling bad about this movie. And I respect
Ms. Bullock and Mr. Clooney as actors. However, it is my humble opinion
that actors must assume some responsibility for the roles they accept.
This movie was so cringe-worthy that the only reason I sat through it
was to see how ridiculous it would get. Alas, other than the black hole
into whose abyss was irretrievably sucked away any hope I once had for
discovering intelligent life in this movie, "Gravity" lacked gravitas.
