10
Completely blew me away - the most fun I've had at the theatre so far this year

Starring the amazing and very pretty Emma Roberts, and the always
charismatic Dave Franco, "Nerve" is a new thriller about a high school
senior named Venus (Emma) who joins an online community, called Nerve,
of adrenaline-junkies where anonymous watchers can dare players to do,
well, whatever they want to see someone do. From start to finish, this film is a non-stop white-knuckle thrill ride
that is exciting, intense, romantic, and most importantly, a lot of
fun. Trust me, you will have a smile on your face the entire runtime of
this movie, and you'll also be on the edge of your seat. Now, I'm going
to be honest, maybe my low expectations made this movie better to me
than it really is, but I can't help that I had an absolute blast
watching this film.One thing that was great about this movie was that the dares were
realistic, and didn't feel ridiculous. All of the things that Venus is
dared to do are things that you know actually could happen in real
life. The dares range from her getting a tattoo, to her having to go 60
miles per hour on a motorcycle while the driver, Ian (Dave Franco), is
blindfolded, and while the dares get more and more intense as the film
goes on, nothing felt overly unbelievable or too exaggerated just for
the sake of putting it in the film.And watching Venus and Ian complete their dares and gain money was so
much fun to watch. Their chemistry was fantastic, and I bought their
friendship throughout the film. What can I say? They made a cute
on-screen couple. It was also satisfying to see Venus go from a shy and
timid girl to an adrenaline junky, but hey, I'd do the same thing if
someone was offering me thousands of dollars. The world building in this film was very believable as well. The game
of Nerve felt like a phenomenon, and it actually felt like something
that could happen in real life. There were shots of the city that
showed the different usernames of all of the different people who were
logged into the game, and this was an effective way of conveying just
how popular Nerve was in the films universe.The color palette was also hypnotizing. Bright, vibrant, neon reds,
blues, and purples are a feast for the eyes, and the soundtrack, which
is comprised of light techno music, accompanies and mixes with the
colors very well and fits the overall tone of the film."Nerve" is a fantastically fun and incredibly intense movie that has
great chemistry between Emma Roberts and Dave Franco, great visuals to
go with an awesome soundtrack, and cool action sequences in the form of
the dares that the characters have to complete. I would highly
recommend this film to anyone who just wants to spend an hour and a
half gripping their seat with a smile on their face.
