10
Tarantino-gasm!

Merry Christmas to all you Tarantino fans out there. I hope you made a
Tarantino checklist so here we go.Witty dialogue, check. Excessive profanity especially use the word
'nigger', check. Excessive violence including testicles getting blown
off, check. Soulful musical score, check. Sometimes non-linear
narrative, check. Shots of women's feet, check. Very great character
driven plot, check. An actual spaghetti western, even though it takes
place in the American South, check.There are four standout characters played by the top billed actors.Jamie Foxx plays Django, a freed slave who becomes a bounty hunter.
Even though he is the titular character, he gets downplayed when in the
presence of the other actors. Still he delivers a solid performance, in
fact hes very convincing. We all know Jamie Foxx as this golden voice
RnB singer and comedian with a very clean cut image. He was able to
pull off the whole transitioning from a timid slave to a menacing
bounty hunter. Not only that he had the whole look down too, with all
the facial scarring and the messy hair.Christoph Waltz plays Dr. King Schulz, a German dentist turned bounty
hunter who frees Django so he could help pursue his previous owners who
are targets. Waltz is a very charismatic actor, and thats how he does
this role. Presents every line with finesse.Leonardo Dicaprio is in his best yet. He plays a plantation owner,
Calvin Candie, and is the owner of Django's wife. This is a very
different role. We've seen Leonardo in gritty roles before but never
did he play this lecherous antagonist. We were all used to Leo being
this teen idol, who looked like a member of Hanson. Here he's this
Southerner with discoloured teeth and a scruffy beard.Finally Samuel L. Jackson who plays Steve, a house slave who you could
say is the secret antagonist here. For all the screen time that he has
he dominates. Sam usually plays boisterous roles as a tough guy, but it
was very interesting seeing him play a devious and manipulative old
man.The only gripe here was that this film was a little too long exceeding
the three act structure, but its an epic western film so I'll excuse
Tarantino for that. Yet again he made another great film with a lot of
flair and carried well by the four big hitter actors. Well done Mr.
Tarantino.
