8
A dark, intense start of what will be an amazing trilogy

The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey brings back the magic of Middle
Earth, but I think it's unfortunate that it will experience the
inevitable comparison to The Lord of the Rings trilogy -- because it's
a very different kind of work, a different kind of tale, a different
kind of atmosphere, a different kind of story progression with a
different kind of flow. LOTR fans rushing in just to get another taste
of the original films may be disappointed. There is certainly no less
intensity, though the scale of the adventure is not quite as large. The
change in moods between comical Dwarf mischief and dark, violent
battles is a bit jarring. The soundtrack I am sad to say is rather
familiar and wholly unimpressive. The pacing suffers some from
Jackson's decision to spread the story into three parts; the movie
seems to trace a disjoint set of drawn-out events along Bilbo's
journey. They don't seem to be using human actors anymore for
orcs/goblins, and it shows in some scenes where the CGI is spotty. And
yet through it all, I never wanted it to end. Even nearing its exhausting 2 and a half hours, I kept hoping the
credits would never roll. It's a fascinating, exhilarating, and
hilarious ride from start to finish. Not the same kind of film as LOTR,
but epic in its own right. The acting was pitch-perfect, especially
from Martin Freeman as Bilbo and Richard Armitage as Thorin. The
battles were exciting and fast- paced. To my great surprise and relief,
the 3D and 48fps played out quite nicely and did not detract from the
footage. And my favorite part of course was Gollum's return to the
screen. Bilbo's riddle battle with Gollum was possibly the most
delightfully intense scene in the movie.The theater was filled with "awwwwww's" when the credits hit, and so
I'm sure every satisfied viewer will be back in their seats next year
eagerly awaiting the second installment of The Hobbit. Congrats, Peter
Jackson & Co. continue to dish out the best in the fantasy genre.
8.5/10
