7
Not As Good As The Original But Still Entertaining

Eggsy (Taron Egerton) is back in action for the ultra-secret Kingsman
in the new film "Kingsman: The Golden Cirlce". The film opens with a
fantastic action and chase sequence through the London streets and
shows a franticly paced mix of action and humor.The film then shifts into setup mode and the next hour or so is very
light on action and instead focuses on Eggsy and Merlin (Mark Strong),
dealing with a devastating attack on the Kingsman from a drug dealer
called Poppy (Julianne Moore), who runs her empire with a ruthless and
manic style from a 50s themed lair complete with robotic guards and a
retro diner and theater.Poppy runs an organization called The Golden Circle and she has
unleashed a devastating plague on the world in an attempt to force the
U.S. President to legalize all drugs which would allow her unlimited
power and money to further her global agenda.With their ranks depleted, Eggsy and Merlin head to the states to
enlist the help if their U.S. counterparts, the Statesman who while at
first reluctant, soon accept the two into their confidence and plan a
mission to end the threat Poppy presents once and for all. Of course
complications arise for Eggsy such as his girlfriend and her parents as
well as the revelation that Harry (Colin Firth) is alive but suffering
amnesia and thus having no memory of his past life and skills in the
service of the Kingsman.One would think that with this setup and cast including the arrivals of
Channing Tatum, Jeff Bridges, and Halle Berry, the film would be a slam
dunk to surpass the original. Sadly this is not the case.
Writer/Director Matthew Vaughn has opted for a film that has a very
large gap of it related to setup and exposition. The film opens and
concludes with a nice action sequence, but there is really not much in
between to get the adrenaline rush going. The original film had the
fantastic church sequence that became one of the most talked about
moments of the film and sadly the sequel offers nothing nearly as
memorable. The other issue is that the villain is not nearly as
memorable nor interesting as Samuel L. Jackson was to say nothing of
his sword footed henchman from the original.There are some amusing moments in the film but It seems that the new
cast was not used to their full potential and that the large gaps of
the film that lacked any action was a real setback especially with how
well the film opened.In the end the film is an enjoyable but flawed effort that fails to
live up to the original but does manage to offer some decent
entertainment for those who set realistic expectations.
