4
Only neat music and cinematography make this tawdry, melodramatic tale of sadomasochistic relationship between jazz conservatory student and teacher, worth watching

In the 70s, a new genre of films aimed at black audiences emerged
entitled, 'Blaxploitation'. The genre primarily glorified stereotypical
"criminal" behavior in black neighborhoods. Now with Damien Chazelle's,
'Whiplash', he's invented a new genre primarily for a large coterie of
Caucasian males: 'Jazzploitation', set in an elite jazz program at a
Julliard-like school of higher musical instruction. Both white liberal
film critics and martial arts enthusiasts alike, will enjoy this
exercise in sado-masochistic shenanigans as evidenced by the plethora
of rave reviews now gracing a multitude of web pages over the internet.Don't ask any of our critics who rave about the film to require Mr.
Chazelle to provide even a modicum of verisimilitude. I'm talking, of
course, about how Mr. Chazelle's antagonist, the martinet music
instructor, Terence Fletcher, would even last five minutes at a
prestigious music conservatory, given his vast repertoire of
sociopathic behavior. Oh but wait—'Whiplash' really is supposed to be
more like a fable, so Mr. Chazelle is given a pass—he no longer has to
be beholden to 'conventional' narratives.But even fables should operate within a somewhat realistic world. And
is it realistic to have Fletcher's co-worker shrink from him (are they
all so afraid that they dare not assert themselves one bit?) Is it
realistic not to see Fletcher's interactions with his supervisors (are
they also completely browbeaten by him?) Would the administration allow
such a person to continually humiliate his students, hurl ethnic and
gay slurs, and actually throw things at the students, which could
result in personal injury (possibly subjecting the school to a
lawsuit?). Fletcher is clearly a caricature, who belongs in an army
setting and not a music conservatory. Nonetheless, Chazelle needs the
character to not only titillate us along the way but to illustrate his
simplistic morality play, which entails a warning about the dangers of
obsessive careerism.Now of course various naysayers will argue that there ARE people like
Fletcher who seek to bring out the best in their students by utilizing
'tough love' but such pedagogues in real life must work within the
'system' and the 'pushing' is much more subtle than what is depicted
here.The same goes for Chazelle's protagonist, Andrew Neyman, who plays the
obsessed drummer student who seeks to get in the good graces of the
ruthless Fletcher. Neyman is played by Miles Teller whom I liked very
much in 'The Spectacular Now'. Since he plays drums in real life,
Teller is pretty convincing playing the drums in the film. But Chazelle applies the same 'sledge hammer' approach toward the
character 'Neyman' as he does with 'Fletcher'. Neyman wants to 'make
it' at 'any cost'. He plays the drums so hard until his hands start
bleeding (various drummers posting on the internet deny they've seen
cases of this); and then on his way to a competition, Neyman gets in a
bad car accident, but STILL drags himself to the performance and
attempts to play (Chazelle seeks to prove the inane point that Neyman
is so obsessed, that he'll do anything to win—even if it means playing
seriously injured and jeopardizing his own life). No really, can you
see anyone doing this? But again, since this is more like a
melodramatic fable, Chazelle can have his characters do the most
ridiculous things, and seemingly get away with it!Two thirds of the Whiplash plot concerns Fletcher's quest to supposedly
bring out the best in his students (none of whom do we really get to
know except Neyman). John Bleasdale writing in CineVue finds Fletcher's
diatribes appealing: "His razor wit, sheer outrageousness, inventive
taunting and vulgar insults are at once appalling and blackly funny." I
agree that Fletcher's insults are appalling but "blackly funny"? Keep
in mind that all the other characters who come in contact with
Fletcher, have no ego, to the point that no one will oppose him.
Therefore, Fletcher can get away with saying anything he feels like
(some may call this 'wit', but in reality they're simply one note
monologues--a set of variations on a theme).The second act crisis manifests itself when Neyman is kicked out of
school after physically attacking Fletcher. The way back toward some
kind of 'equilibrium' is when Neyman agrees to give a deposition in a
lawsuit that eventually leads to Fletcher's dismissal from the
conservatory.The Whiplash climax occurs after Neyman and Fletcher meet at a jazz
club where Fletcher is now playing and Neyman agrees to play at a
showcase. This turns out to be an ambush, since Fletcher arranges for
Neyman to get up there without sheet music and he can only end up
improvising (Fletcher is so demented that he's seemingly willing to
sabotage the entire performance to get back at Neyman who he knows
testified against him). Neyman runs off backstage into the arms of his
good guy father but suddenly summons the courage to come back and play,
where he dazzles, performing an extraordinary drum solo. Has Neyman
triumphed after enduring the humiliating set-up? Not at all! He merely
plays into Fletcher's stratagem to push him beyond his limits
emotionally—even if it means that he must sacrifice his dignity and
self-worth by allowing the mad sociopath to manipulate him over and
over again.In order to accept Chazelle's tawdry tale, one must accept the
conventions of melodrama. Clearly it's written as heightened reality to
make a point about the sadomasochistic relationship between student and
teacher. While Chazelle may ultimately view his characters at a
distance with the correct moral upper hand, he mirrors Tarantino, by
reveling in the violence that he is also attempting to disdain. The
'Whiplash' machinations end up more tawdry and sensationalistic than
compellingly tragic.I would recommend 'Whiplash' for the excellent cinematography and of
course all the neat jazz music. I'll pass on the story—due to its
clear, unrealistic and melodramatic aftertaste.
