7
Jumping on Mars Seems Like a Lot of Fun

Who is John Carter? John Carter is a Civil War veteran who gets
transported to Mars (or Barsoom, as they say) using a mysterious device
(a medallion). There, he grabs the attention of four-armed, green,
15-feet creatures (known as Tharks) due to his superhuman jumping
skills (thanks to the lower gravitational force present in Mars).
There, he gains some recognition and is forced to be involved in a
series of battles, all part of a war between the city of Helium and
Zodanga, as well as decide the fate of the planet.Now that you've met John Carter, let's introduce you to Mars/Barsoom,
the "Red Planet".Barsoom is where the film takes place. It's similar to Earth (Jasoom)in
ways but also different in other ways. There's oxygen (as John Carter
is able to breathe normally, although he might have inhaled some other
type of gas), and there's water (in the form of rivers and lakes, but
no oceans). However, organisms who inhabit the planet are driven by
blue blood, not red Earth blood. There's a smaller gravitational force
present (which allows not only John Carter, but any other Earthling to
jump like Superman). There are no plants, no sign of botany. And they
speak a different language, however John is able to understand the
Barsoom language due to a special drink. And the best part: there are
two moons.Barsoom, compared to Earth is much more technologically advanced. There
are futuristic flying ships present, artistic buildings, and flying
bikes (something like that). It's definitely more advanced than us. But
for some reason, their fashion is just ancient (John Carter is
shirtless for most of the time in Barsoom), and most of the landscape
is deserted, empty. The sort of games they play is what the Romans
played back in Caesar area: gladiatorial games. (There's one
entertaining scene in particular for that.) Disney has spent $250
million on this film and marketed it aggressively. However, the
trailers didn't give provide anything interesting and didn't gain
audiences' interest, therefore gained a weak opening weekend gross. Put
that aside, "John Carter" is actually dazzling, entertaining, and very
fun to watch. The fantasy themes intertwine with science-fiction
elements perfectly. It is just marvelous.With the production budget of the flick reaching $250 million, the
visual effects of the film is incredible. The sets, and creatures of
the planet were very realistic and very jaw-dropping. The one action
scene I liked the most was the gladiatorial game held in the land of
the Tharks where Carter, Sola (a Thark), and Tarkas (another Thark) had
to fight against two monstrous, giant-sized, eyeless, white apes. And
the 3D: the 3D effects here were worth noting and recommended.The outstanding special effects lead to the amazing, and widely
entertaining action sequences. John Carter uses his swords as his
weapon and does swordplay against the inhabitants of Barsoom. The
inhabitants of Barsoom are no match for John Carter, regardless of
their weapons and fighting skills, thanks to Carter's extraordinary
jumping skills and outstanding sword-fighting skills. John Carter is
just invincible and too strong for Barsoomians. However, there was some problem with the storytelling as it was not
able to tie up loose ends. In the middle of the film, we encounter this
power source or something, the ninth ray. It seems like something
special, something revolutionary, something vital to the story. But
then, there's not a trace of it later on. What's happened to it? What's
the significance of this power? What is it capable of? Nothing.The actors' performances were satisfying enough. Taylor Kitsch is a
very suitable John Carter and gives a satisfying performance, although
not Oscar worthy. The beautiful Lynn Collins plays the role of the
Martian Princess Dejah Thoris with style and determination. The other
supporting cast also did well. Some of the characters who appear in CGI
have also been given outstanding voices by the talented supporting
cast. Anyone who loved "Avatar", or "Star Wars" would definitely enjoy this
flick. It offers a blend of fantasy and science-fiction and is perfect
for audiences of all ages. The children will love the technology
incorporated, the older kids will clamor the dazzling special effects,
and the adults will enjoy the love story and action scenes.Rating: 7/10Final Verdict: "John Carter" is a film that offers a perfect blend of
fantasy and science-fiction accompanied with satisfying performances
and spectacular visual effects.
