4
Counseling the Counselor

When I first heard about this film and its pedigreed credentials:
Director Ridley Scott, Starring Michael Fassbender, Javier Bardem,
Penelope Cruz, Cameron Diaz and Brad Pitt, I was excited to see it.
However, because of the very poor reviews and box office performance
Stateside, I have tempered my expectations before I went to see it. And
so should you."The Counselor" refers to the nameless character played by Michael
Fassbender. He appears to be a very successful lawyer, happily engaged
to a gorgeous, church-going girl (Penelope Cruz). However, for some
reason this film never really completely discloses, he still felt the
need to get himself involved with a Mexican drug cartel for additional
cash, peppered with colorful characters, like the wild-haired Reiner
(Javier Bardem), his slinky girlfriend Malkina (Cameron Diaz) and the
urban cowboy Westray (Brad Pitt). Will the Counselor get away with both
the girl and cash?When I saw in the opening credits that the script was by Cormac
McCarthy, who was responsible for "No Country for Old Men" (which I did
not exactly like), I braced myself for one puzzling and boring ride.However, it was not exactly all boring after all. There were those
pockets of incredible tension and violence involving necks which you
will not soon forget. Michael Fassbender was okay as the titular Counselor, but there was
nothing about his character which was fully-explored. He is obviously
greedy enough to risk everything he had to get himself involved in
nefarious criminal activities, but we do not see why. So we end up not
caring at all about him. We actually see other characters counsel him,
than him counseling others.Cameron Diaz's femme fatale character Malkina was unexpectedly well-
developed. She is certainly no dumb blond bimbo here. Her scenes though
were the most perplexing as to where she was coming from. She has a
scene on the windshield of a luxury car that was as head-scratching as
it was sensually acrobatic.Javier Bardem is really very comfortable playing these cool sinister
types. Penelope Cruz is too good to be true. I expected more out of
their characters than what ended up in the final edit we saw, which was
disappointing.I found the character of Brad Pitt the most interesting one of all.
Every time Westray was on the screen, the story perks up and even the
long conversations he has with the Counselor actually made sense. Too
bad Pitt was only in about a third of the film or less."The Counselor" comes across as a slick action-filled crime caper film
at first glance. However as you watch it, you will realize that it was
actually mostly long-winded, unrealistically philosophical
conversations and monologues from the most unlikely of characters. I
think the main problem is the turgid and generally lifeless script
which the talents of the director nor the actors could save.
