1
One star and that's for Keaton's effort

There's always a slot for a movie every calendar year for the one film
that everyone praises but hardly anyone understands, likes, or comes
close to fathom why it receives such accolades. "Birdman" and its
entire cast and crew (with the exception of Keaton) have taken that
spot, dislodging "Boyhood" out of this position. Still, "Boyhood" had
Ethan and Arquette, which made it passable."Birdman" feels like an inside joke, and it never escapes that
categorization for it constantly repeats its wink wink attitude. It
keeps calling attention to how much it knows about the world of theater
and its actors, so full of insecurity, mental trauma, every possible
mental instability you can think of, and most importantly inmeasurable
amounts of egocentric devotion. It is always, not so subtly calling
attention to how hard it is to be a real actor, how much drama there
is, and how special those beings are.Keaton plays an actor who wants to be taken seriously by giving
Broadway a try, and it's not an easy task because for starters, he
doesn't trust himself as being anything else but a long-gone matinée
idol, and this is in spite of his fans who keep jumping out of nowhere.
You'd think that'd keep his ego satisfied, but where would the film go
if there was no drama? So the four writers behind this mess keep piling
up the tragedies... an addicted daughter, a possibly cheating
girlfriend, who might or not be pregnant, a loving ex-wife who can't
stay away in spite of the "attack", a manager who seems to offer too
much support, a hateful critic, the local bar... I kept wondering when
the Thelma Ritter character was going to make an appearance to liven
things a little, but we did have an Eve Carrington type in there,
somehow modified to make it look fresh and more psychotic. I never
thought I would dislike anything Norton did, but this film managed to
make him and Watts totally useless, and these two have been formidable,
especially Watts in her last films. She's wonderful in "St. Vincent",
showing she's capable of delivering great performances, and to make us
feel even worse, there's that lesbian kiss, making me yearn for her
sublime turn in "Mulholland Drive".So much is wrong with this film that it would take pages to express the
disatisfaction. The dialogue is borderline unbearable, making us wish
the fictitious "Birdman" strike them dead. These people can't stop
talking about their "problems" because if they didn't have them, their
lives would be even more boring. It's just plain unbelievable that all
actors carry that psychological weight. Are there any happy Broadway
types? Even Watts is not happy she finally made it?Then there is the gratuitous nudity. There was something strange about
that preview, and it did hint at both something special and something
really wrong with the film. To be fair, had the film concentrated on
the Keaton character, it would have soared. This happens way too late
in the movie, and it's an incredible flight of the imagination, but the
road there is just mined with too many pretentious and incompetent
attempts at being "original". I haven't heard that many yawns and sighs
in one theater as I did this time. It's just an utter mess.The subject of the theater and acting has been explored and shown with
fantastic results, classic performances, and most importantly with
superb examples of insight and drama. "All About Eve" and "All That
Jazz might be the best of those films, and I can recall O'Toole,
Finney, Weist, and a few other very talented actors and directors
showing that type of life can indeed be full of drama, wit, insecurity
and human comedy. "Birdman" only shows everything that can go wrong
with trying to pretend that you do know what is going on.Finally, don't get me going on those long hand-held shots... There was
once a film about some criminals that was praised to heaven for
something similar, and that certainly didn't make it a better film. In
this case, it's supposed to be intimate; instead it's annoying,
intrusive, disturbing and just another example that along with the
interminable number of close ups, it only makes us feel extremely
nauseous.
