8
Possibly Anderson's best film in terms of style.

The year is 1965 and a remote North Eastern coastal community is
plunged into confusion when it discovers that two kids have run away.
Sam, a discontented Khaki Scout, and Suzy, a put-upon older sister and
forgotten daughter, abscond into the forest to escape their
dissatisfying existences. The responsible adults – Sam's Scout Master
Ward (Edward Norton) and Suzy's parents (Bill Murray and Frances
McDormand) – and the entire town set out on a frenzied search, which
gets wild when the largest storm in recorded history touches down and
puts everyone's life into question. What ensues is a battle between
youth and age, hope and disillusionment, faith and cynicism.In terms of story and character, Wes Anderson's previous films,
especially The Royal Tenenbaums and The Darjeeling Limited, are
superior. Even in the most compelling relationship in the film between
Captain Sharp (Bruce Willis) and Sam doesn't embody Anderson's ability
to take his characters into deep emotional places of hurt and healing
without melodrama. However, the newest addition to the Anderson canon
is a cinematic experience.Moonrise Kingdom's story, co-written with Roman Coppola, takes a
definite backseat to style, as Anderson saturates the entire film with
a "Norman Rockwell-type of Americana". Stylistically, it may be
Anderson's most masterful work, as the costumes, sets, and settings
transport the viewer to an alternate universe, a place of wonder and
adventure. The soundtrack is especially effective, as it recalls a time
when things were simpler: Hank Williams was on the radio, and children
listened to records instead of playing video games. However, Anderson
isn't content with reminiscing about the year 1965. He takes this
nostalgia and twists it, infusing the film with a twinge of sadness
through the reality of life's disappointments. He doesn't reject the
Rockwellian view of America, but argues that it doesn't tell the whole
story.Moonrise Kingdom is that place of beauty and passion that we all have
been in at least once in our lives – the one place on earth where we
believe that anything is possible. It has since been lost, but it
persists in our memories in moments of nostalgia.
