4
Aronofsky bites off more than he can chew

Darren Aronofsky's Noah is a Biblical epic that definitely does not
live up to its potential; nor is it worthy of the talents of its
director. I came into the movie with what I thought were realistic
expectations: mainly that it would divert from its source material,
which I am quite familiar with. I also realized that this is
Aronofsky's first real epic film, as all of his previous work is fairly
minimalist, with relatively few characters and settings. I knew,
however, that he is a creative artist, and I expected to see an
interesting visual interpretation of this classic tale. It is safe to
say that my expectations were not met and that I was fairly
disappointed afterwards. The problems with the movie are myriad but the main issue I would point
out is the inconsistency and incoherence of the characters and overall
philosophy of the film. The most troubling of these to me was the
supposed moral delineation between the villain Tubal Cain (Ray Winston)
and his people and Noah (Russell Crowe) and his family. The main evil
that the villains seem to display is declaring an ownership over
creation and a disregard for the environment, contrasted with Noah's
veganism and care for the Earth. However, I found this fairly
unconvincing because of Noah's seemingly blatant disregard for human
life, as right off the bat he is seen killing some hunters when they
try to kill a weird looking scaled deer (on a side note, this creature
did not seem to fit in, as it was the only fantastical looking animal
that you really see, even the serpent Satan looks like a normal snake)
without thinking twice and with no apparent guilt. He also kills many
other innocent people when they try to get on the ark. This does not
seem consistent with the back story of Cain given at the beginning of
the movie, as his sin was violence and murder. This confuses the
audience because it is not clear why Noah's family should live while
the rest of the world should die. Perhaps this is the director's point
though I have a hard time believing that. In contrast, this
differentiation is quite clear in the Biblical narrative, as Noah and
his family are saved because of their faith in God and their obedience
to Him while the rest of humanity have rejected Him and because of
their complete moral depravity. I think this is a vital part of the
story that should not have been tampered with. In a similar vein, the
issue of Noah interpreting God's commands to mean that all of humankind
must die was very thorny for me. I understand the director wanted to
weave the story of Abraham and Isaac into the movie but this definitely
fell flat. There were simply too many inconsistencies with this plot
element. Principally, why wouldn't Noah simply just close the ark and
force his family to be subjected to and die in the flood like everyone
else since all of the animals were already safe and sound inside? This
would have saved him the heartache. Also, there is no evidence that
Noah's wife is barren (she looks fairly middle aged throughout) so it
would be seems possible for humanity to be continued through her with
one of her sons presumably as the father. Gross, but so is an uncle and
niece having children. Again the Biblical narrative does not have this
problem, as Noah's sons already have families of their own when the
flood comes. Finally Noah's ultimate decision to spare his
grandchildren, coupled with the revelation that God gave him the choice
whether humanity continued or died out, struck me as strange,
anticlimactic and inconsistent, while also straying from the Abraham
and Isaac story.There were many other smaller inconsistencies throughout the film.
First off, the snake skin which signifies birth right is never really
explained fully. Why would people value the skin of the snake that was
instrumental in them losing Eden? Also, the glowing rocks were not
explained at all and seemed very unnecessary. I was also frustrated
with the depiction of the fallen angels, as was pretty much everyone
else who saw the movie. They seemed very out of place and were probably
one of the more offensive elements of the movie for believers, as
fallen angels in the Bible are known as demons and shouldn't be helping
the hero. I also noticed that they looked almost like Claymation or
stop motion so they were very frustrating to look at. This must have
been purposeful, but I have no idea why. Lastly, I found the overall
philosophy of the movie inconsistent. Having seen Aronovsky's The
Fountain was fairly helpful here since there are many similarities,
mainly the idea of reincarnation, man being in control of his own
destiny, and the character of the last/first man. Also the seed of the
tree of life in The Fountain looked the same as the seed of Noah's Ark
which suggests they symbolize the same catalyst of reincarnation.
However, these themes, mainly the interesting combination of pantheism
and humanism did not seem to work with the basic story, God destroying
the world and continuing mankind through Noah. Principally, if Noah
controls man's destiny, then why bring God into it at all, especially
as it seems nature is the supreme entity. Also, having an all-powerful
deity who created the universe seems inconsistent with the suggested
cyclicality of destruction and creation. There were a few positives
however. Clint Mansell and the Kronos Quartet deliver with the music as
always (caveat: was I the only one who was weirded out by the Patti
Smith number during the credits), and I enjoyed the cast and their
acting. The visuals were decent but by no means revolutionary and the
sound was great. In conclusion, I would suggest skipping this one,
especially if you follow an Abrahamic Religion.
