1
What A Stinker!!!

If tour-de-force performances alone made great movies, then "Sixth
Sense" writer & director M. Night Shyamalan's "Split" would be one of
the best. Instead, Shyamalan's twelfth movie qualifies as an
unintentionally hilarious, multiple identity disorder, abduction
chiller about a colorful fruit loop bristling with more identities than
you can count on fingers and toes together. As the traumatized casualty
of an abusive mom, woebegone protagonist Kevin Wendel Crumb (James
McAvoy) has forged a 'Horde' of personalities to serve as a bulwark
against grim reality. Predictable, derivative, and ultimately
preposterous, "Split" contains McAvoy's nuanced performance as well as
Shyamalan's usual standard-issue surprises. Indeed, McAvoy has a field
day chewing the scenery as a wacko with 23 personalities who is
gestating number twenty-four. Basically, this charming but deranged
psycho abducts three pretty young things from a Philadelphia shopping
mall and confines them for his own culinary delight in an underground
facility from which escape is virtually impossible. Compared with other
movies about split-personality psychos, "Split" does feature a looney
tune with a greater number of identities than any other movie. McAvoy's
chameleon-like capacity to shift from one identity to another in the
flick of an eyelash is as fluid as if he were genuinely conflicted
himself. Suffice to say, McAvoy is brilliant, but perhaps not Oscar
brilliant. "Split" boils down to a clever, self-conscious one-man show
despite the quartet of additional characters involved. Unfortunately,
we see only eight of the twenty-three weirdos that McAvoy portrays, but
none is either demonic or memorable. Meanwhile, two of those four other
characters lack sympathy because they brought this tragedy on
themselves by ridiculing the psycho. Shyamalan's surprises occur just
where you would expect them, and you won't feel the overwhelming urge
to shout "WOW!" because you are so flabbergasted. Meantime, Shyamalan
struggles desperately to spawn suspense, but what he achieves remains
at best trifling. Sometimes, this half-baked suspense proves
aggravating because you realize how futile it is for these doomed
characters. On the other hand, unlike most psychos on killing spree
saga, "Split" doesn't wallow in gratuitous blood and gore. Casey Cook (Anya Taylor-Joy of "The Witch") has been forged in a
crucible of child abuse, too. A heart attack killed her father
(Sebastian Arcelus of "Ted 2") while she was attending elementary
school. Sadly, her father's brother, Uncle John (Brad William Henke of
"Fury"), has assumed the duties as a guardian for Casey. Without
divulging too much, Casey and her stepfather have had an adversial
relationship. Now, in high school, Casey prefers to keep to herself
whenever possible. Two of her snobbish classmates, Claire (Haley Lu
Richardson of "The Edge of Seventeen") and Claire's African-American
friend Marcia (Jessica of "Honeytrap"), have invited her to their
birthday party more out of mercy rather than friendship. Indeed, they
display cynical attitudes about Casey, but they fear the repercussions
on social media about what they might have faced had they not invited
Casey. When her ride doesn't materialize, Casey agrees to accompany
Claire and Marcia and listen to Claire's father (Brian Gildea) who
loves to tell terrible jokes. As the saying goes, Hell is a road
asphalted with good intentions, and Claire and Marcia have provided the
paving that puts Casey in harm's way. Before they can pull out of the
parking lot, a stranger, Kevin Wendel Crumb intervenes, dispenses with
Claire's dad, and then carjacks them. Slipping on a face mask, he
sprays something into their eyes that plunges them into oblivion. Of
course, had they not been paralyzed with fear, these girls could have
bailed out before Kevin incapacitated them. When they awaken, the girls
find themselves locked up in a room with the same tight-lipped stranger
staring at them. Eventually, they discover that something is seriously
amiss with their captor. Every time Crumb appears, he masquerades as an
entirely different fellow, sometimes even as a woman. What the three
girls don't know is that Kevin is a patient of a world-renowned
psychotherapist, Dr. Karen Fletcher (Betty Buckley of "Frantic"), who
has terribly misjudged the threat that he poses to society. Repeatedly,
Kevin tells her about 'the beast' and how this messianic personality
will shield all twenty-three personalities from scorn and ridicule.
When 'the beast' shows up, "Split" turns into a warped Marvel Comics
movie because the beast possesses supernatural characteristics. At this
point, you want to laugh out loud at this transition from a dreary
abduction potboiler to a fantasy epic that happens to be a belated
sequel to the Bruce Willis & Samuel L. Jackson thriller "Unbreakable." Nothing in this review has been designed to spoil "Split" if you decide
to see it. You may walk into this superficial saga with greater
awareness than you might have, but far be it for me to sabotage the
quirky ending that hinges on purity. Before anybody can complain that I
hate all Shyamalan's movies, let me say that I admired "The Sixth
Sense," "Unbreakable," "Signs," and "Lady in the Water," but I abhorred
"The Village," "The Visit," "After Earth," "The Last Airbender," and
"The Happening." "Split" belongs to the latter category of travesties.
Comparably, as deplorable as it was, "The Visit" surpasses "Split."
Nothing about "Split" is more than timidly suspenseful, and the action
degenerates into a series of episodic encounters between McAvoy's
various personalities and his victims. Casey is the only other truly
interesting character aside from the loquacious Dr. Karen Fletcher. The
other two girls might as well have been mannequins. They are
essentially expendable, and they behave like whiny victims in a movie
where whiny victims must perish. The surprise ending came as neither a
relief nor a revelation. More often than not, I felt like Shyamalan
cheated with some of the narrative twists that contained neither enough
credibility nor sufficient spontaneity. Finally, Shyamalan has
exploited Dissociative Identity Disorder as a cheap gimmick to conjure
up an uninspired Grimm's style fairy tale that stigmatizes the disorder
rather than entertains us as a legitimate horror movie.
