1
Howler Wolf

Motivational Speakers have gotten a bad reputation throughout the
years, and perhaps rightly so. They can talk up a storm yet there's not
much behind the curtain...The same can be said of Leonardo DiCaprio's energetic performance in
THE WOLF OF WALL STREET, providing intense pep-rally speeches without
any real games to follow: In fact the narration by DiCaprio's con
artist stockbroker Jordan Belfort gives just about everything away.
Imagine if, during the first minute of GOODFELLAS, Ray Liotta described
the mafia as a bunch of worthless, lowlife, backstabbing killers:
What's left to learn and experience? Based on a true story centering on
unapologetic greed and making gross amounts of money, director Martin
Scorsese provides so much flash there's very little substance, despite
several attempts for a worthwhile baseline...When Belfort starts his career as a low-end stockbroker, he almost
suffers a necessary hunger before getting a quick bellyful of other
people's money. Instead, right off the bat, his boss (Matthew
McConaughey) unveils the nefarious sleight-of-hand before it's even
played out. And later on, as Belfort's team of shady brokers join his
own Wall Street corporation, with the exception of sidekick Donnie
Azoff, played by A-list sidekick Jonah Hill, no one not even Belfort's
gorgeous trophy wife amounts to anything beyond wallpaper.One scene works the best: when a straight-laced FBI agent meets with
Belfort on his yacht, there's a beginning, middle and end to a somewhat
intriguing conversation. Here we finally learn what our antihero's up
against. Perhaps an example of an "honest stockbroker," one not
targeted by the feds, would make us learn more about what makes Belfort
particularly crooked. Besides an immense rockstar appetite for women
and drugs, we never get past the man's perpetual debauchery.This bloated and overlong howler of a WOLF could very well contend with
SHOWGIRLS if an otherwise talented movie star, along with his iconic
director/collaborator, weren't on board...When Belfort and Donnie take too many Quaaludes there's a surreal
twenty minutes that seemed like part of another movie perhaps LESS
THAN ZERO if written by a sixth grader Which is nothing compared to a
storm-riding yacht sequence that should have ended like Leo's other
ship movie, sparing us an extra half-hour...Bringing us back to the Motivational Speaker concept: If DiCaprio's
best moments involve convincing a group of born cheaters they'd be
better off rich and dishonest, he's merely preaching to the choir. The
rest of us might need a reason to trust this jovially narcissistic,
intentionally likable shyster before buying three long hours of his
crap.
