10
Pitch Perfect 2

After a humiliating command performance at Lincoln Center, the Barden
Bellas enter an international competition that no American group has
ever won in order to regain their status and right to perform.Pitch Perfect comes back with a sequel, directed by Elizabeth Banks.
Everyone is familiar with these characters by now and we all wanted to
see what could happen to them after the first movie. So the good things
in this acapella world aside, now we are witnessing those characters
growing older and becoming real people. This film allows us to spend
more time on characters that people love, to tell more of their stories
and to see where these women be at three years later. While in the
first one it was more about coming together, bonding and being
freshmen; this film mainly deals with the notion of graduation as their
in majority in their last year of college, companionship they have in
college that will last forever as Bellas will always be Bellas, moving
on, breaking apart, leaving the nest, staring life right in the face
and going their separate ways. However they find themselves right back
where they started: as underdogs of acapella. There are a lot going on
this time, plot- and character -wise. Some endearing elements were
taken back from the first film such as the romance between Beca and
Jesse, that keep all the component in harmony as they are settled
characters. Indeed they are a nice balance to the melodramatic aspect
of the movie, grounded to the real stakes of this world. Yet once again
Fat Amy, starring Rebel Wilson, is very charismatic. She embodies a
confident woman that never thinks about her size at all. Proving that
your body type doesn't determine your fate in life. Giving her a real
love story with Bumper is such a good idea as she really deserves it
and both actors have a great chemistry together. John Michael Higgins'
character smoothly delivers his misogynic lines such as "Let's hear it
from the girls too ugly to be cheerleaders!", and casual racism
throughout the movie is even funnier this time around!Moreover, new girls fit right into the dynamic of the group. They're
all the same characters but pushed a little bit further, they're a
little bit bigger, crazier and global. Hailee Steinfeld's character
represents what Pitch Perfect has become which is that kind of bonding
enthusiasm and likability. People will identify with the movie for
different reasons but ultimately for the joy and happiness it spreads.
Obviously men are not the targeted demographic of this movie - or
basically people who don't watch Glee. Nonetheless, if you just enjoy
music this film will get points with you. Musically, the songbook is
far hipper with a younger song selection. Executive music producers
J.Jordan and J.Michels have ensured that every performances are
note-perfect and soundtrack album ready; which I have to admit rather
detracts any sense of realism: it's not humanly possible to sing so
in-sync spontaneously. Plus, jokes are all amazing, not one falls flat.
You clearly know where the movie goes from the beginning but this film
is not here for an Oscar, it's just here to be fun and show some good
acapella. Finally, Banks has crafted a sequel that's edgier, sexier and
best of all more female centered than the first one. Showing that women
can be as funny as men, even funnier. So get over it, picthes! Overall Pitch Perfect 2 proved once again that acapella is not lame at
all, with a nerdy and inspirational movie and with much more
sophisticated layered music.
