4
Stereotype-ridden Snorefest

Though made for a plethora of reasons, a film need only achieve one
goal to be successful: it needs to be entertaining. Engaging
characters, good performances, and a story that is engrossing, even if
a bit cardboard or cliché. When a film ultimately fails, it is because
its characters are wooden or stereotypical, the storyline is boring,
and the only question it might raise is, "was this intended to be sleep
therapy for a study on insomnia?" Set that film in 1949 and make it
about gangsters and cops, and you've got Gangster Squad, a film so
inept that Ruben Fleischer should win an award for managing to make a
violent action movie that could put an Olympic sprinter to sleep in
mid-stride.Josh Brolin stars as Sgt. Something-or-other, a no-nonsense cop who is
recruited by the grizzled police chief (Nick Nolte, who eats sandpaper,
apparently) to stop a gangster from taking over Los Angeles. Brolin
broods as the take-no-prisoners Sarge, his squad rarely referring to
him by name because they probably can't remember his name either.
Despite how stylized the trailers may seem, how action-packed and
exciting it promises to be, this is little more than a stable of
stereotypes loosed upon mid-twentieth-century Los Angeles and hoping
not to bore it half to death. It becomes exhausting to try to care
about what's going on in the film because the characters haven't got a
shred of credibility between them; the only enjoyment comes from Robert
Patrick, himself packed tightly into the stereotype of the
sharpshooting old westerner.Sean Penn's utterly ham-fisted Mickey Cohen is taken down, but who
cares? The film never makes you care about the struggle against him or
the city under his rule; he's ruthless, he's tough as nails, and he's
every other stereotype of the evil gangster that Sean Penn could look
up the day after he got cast and decided to cram into the character.
Every single actor in this film has been utterly fantastic in other
films; how could the ensemble be so frightfully uninteresting? The
utterly versatile and likable Ryan Gosling is so bland and watered-down
that he seems confused as to why he is even in the film. Emma Stone is
rendered to eye candy, a crime given her considerable talents.Yet, as contrived as the characters are, it doesn't come close to
touching how terrible the script is. Penn mugs at the camera, his only
character direction seemingly "sound more angry" or "be more
gangster-y." The film does itself a disservice to not show Cohen's rise
to power- it wants the audience to see how powerful Cohen is, but
killing his own men for their ineptitude and eating a steak dinner at a
fancy restaurant does nothing to imbue the fear that Mickey is supposed
to represent into the script. He quite honestly seems rather harmless,
and without a villain to care about, the gangster squad's mission to
tackle said villain becomes even more pointless.The real tragedy here is the fact that for two hours, there are guns
firing, flashy action sequences and big period set pieces, yet none of
it seems all that interesting. It needed to be longer; it needed to go
deeper. Having Sarge's wife tell the audience that he'll pick duty over
family is supposed to be meaningful, but the scene is unnecessary- the
opening sequence with Brolin's character tells everyone that. Too much
time is spent between characters needlessly talking exposition at the
audience. Time better spent developing a camaraderie between the squad
members is instead spent on slow-motion sequences or on Brolin's
chin-set, Mickey-Cohen-is-bad speeches. If Mickey Cohen is so terrible,
why doesn't a film about his downfall just show the audience that? Not
to say that Gangster Squad is completely bereft of enjoyment. The
period setting was very well done, with some magnificent costume and
set design. It may have been senseless and boring, but at least it felt
like it was boring in 1949 and wasn't really out of place. A chase
sequence early on with some vintage automobiles is excellently handled,
filled with some great explosive tension, figuratively and literally.
The film handles most of its gunplay and action sequences quite well,
it's just a shame that all the bullets are coming from guns shot by
gunmen and are flying at targets that are equally vapid and
meaningless. These aren't characters, they're shells, into which an
actor was poured and just told to act like a single-line description
from an old pulp novel about gangsters.Despite a moment here or there of decent action, there's nothing
redeemable about the entire experience that is Gangster Squad. It is
empty, boring, and ultimately will leave the audience feeling... well,
nothing. What should have been an excellent period film with gangsters
and cops with some depth and character exploration is instead ripe with
brevity, with everything thrown at the screen wrapped in a stereotype
with so little substance, you can almost see through Mickey Cohen.Check out my profile for links to my other reviews!
