1
Is CGI THE everything for these days??

There is no doubt that movie is visually stunning. But then again, this
has become a norm for this days for the CGI to be as good as this. According to the movie, we genetically descend from an angry 8ft strain
of a blue man group member who wants to wipe us out for no discernible
reason. Depending on how you interpret the opening sequence it's
possible that a rogue jockey created us by sacrificing himself to do so
but you never really get to the the bottom of that. Once the other character came out of hyper sleep the movie steadily
went down hill. The dialog between the actors mostly seemed unrealistic
and forced with most of the characters being a complete waste of
casting as they were irrelevant throughout the movie and had zero
depth.What really made me wince were the strange decision some of them made
and the movies lack of explanation as to why they did the things they
did. An example of this was when Milburn and Fifield get lost in the
alien temple after becoming scared when seeing a decapitated Space
Jockey and decide to go back to the ship. There is no explanation as to
why they become lost and a complete lack of interest from the rest of
the crew as to we're they are and their safety. Despite Captain Janek
stating to them via radio that Alien life has been detected, he just
tells them to go to sleep, very odd!Android David finds a vase of goo in the pyramid/mountain place. He
touches it to his finger. He deliberately puts his finger into
Holloway's champagne, infecting him as he ingests. Holloway gets sick.
Before the symptoms become obvious he mates with his infertile lover
Elizabeth. She becomes pregnant and quickly goes into labor. But she
performs an abortion with the ship's robotic surgeon of some kind. And
the operation performed on her body involves slicing directly through
the skin and muscle-tissue of her Abdomen. After the procedure, she's
simply "stitched together" by metal clips in like 3 seconds - and with
a bit of anesthetic, she continues to move and jump about with some
moaning. Ehm, this was ridiculous to show that anyone could do any kind
of normal movement with their muscle tissue completely severed - and
there was absolutely no healing involved. And not to mention this
things that comes out of her belly she just leaves it there in the
operation room. Some time later the angry Creator is attacked by the
full grown hell baby and is consumed by it, to a degree, for unknown
reasons. That dead Creator then births a primitive XenomorphAmong these people with zero personality - we have some willing to
gleefully commit suicide by ramming an alien ship, because they like
their captain, and they're required to do so because he "can't fly
worth a damn" - despite him being the primary pilot hired by a
billionaire to do nothing but fly the ship.Then we have a religious scientist who concludes that she's found our
creators, based on: "It's what I choose to believe". Then we have the
very same religious scientist look at an alien "head" they brought back
- and she notices some "strange growth" on said head. She then spends 2
seconds thinking and concludes that this is obviously some kind of
"foreign cell stuff" (impressive deduction, I must say) - and she
decides (for kicks) to stimulate the cells with some kind of energy -
just to see what happens. No research - no caution - no nothing.I am a religious person myself but religious references were so
unnecessary that it was so laughable when every time they showed that
cross-shaped necklace.Then we have the boyfriend of said religious scientist who decides that
the air in a completely alien environment is breathable because his
device tells him it is - and he immediately removes his helmet. A
classic Hollywood scientist moment.This movie is FULL of this kind of utterly implausible behavior and
random decisions.The convoluted nature of the evolution processes and the ridiculous
speed at which that all happens. From worm to white cobra- hugger in no
time at all, not to mention the rapid growth of the squiddy giant face
hugger which did it without any intake of food. Everything grew fast to
suit the rushed nature of the filmWe have an android, well-acted by Fassbender, who seems to be
completely random in his decisions and motivations. I simply didn't get
what he was about or why he did what he did. It made no sense in any
context - not to me anyway.The music was overwrought and didn't fit with the mood of the film, and
it seemed like one theme being repeated endlessly. A surprise, given
Scott's usual flair for good music.There was no explanation as to the motives of the Space Jockey race and
their reasons to wanting to destroy Earth leaving the movie open to a
sequel.Pardon me, but that is a load of garbage. I honestly cannot believe
something that ludicrous made its way into, what is essentially, an
Alien movie. I keep wondering that did Ridley Scott not even watch his
own movie for pointers? I have no idea how some people here reviewing this are even suggesting
to get the Oscars out. I bet these are the same people who rated the
Transformers 2 & 3 highly and all they care about is CGI but nothing to
do with Plot or Character Development. Speaking of character
development, I actually wanted Shaw to die in the end since I couldn't
care less about her!! And she is supposedly the lead character.This movie is an insult to human intelligence and a waste of time and
space. Stay away from this. PLEASE!!
