5
Nothing special here except for some beautiful Oregon visuals.

'GONE': Two and a Half Stars (Out of Five)Routine run-of-the-mill murder mystery thriller starring Amanda
Seyfried and filmed in Portland, Oregon. The film is about a woman who
believes she was kidnapped by a serial killer and escaped but, due to
her psychiatric trouble in the past, no one believes her. When her
sister goes missing she becomes obsessed with saving her and finding
the killer. It was directed by Heitor Dhalia and written by Allison
Burnett. There's absolutely nothing special here except for some
beautiful Oregon visuals. Seyfried plays Jill Conway, a young woman who lives with her recovering
alcoholic sister Molly (Emily Wickersham) in Portland. When Molly goes
missing she's sure her former kidnapper took her and goes to the police
for help. The police don't believe Molly is legitimately missing though
and they think Jill is suffering another psychiatric meltdown, as she
did for multiple years when her parents were killed. Jill believes she
was kidnapped sometime earlier and thrown in to a hole, with human
remains, somewhere in the forest. She thinks she overcame the killer by
stabbing him with a bone and escaped. The police couldn't find the hole
though and they think Jill imagined the whole thing. Jill is convinced
she's not crazy and will stop at nothing to rescue her sister.I do like that the movie keeps you guessing on whether there actually
is a killer or if it's all in Jill's head. Seyfried does a decent job
of coming off pretty obsessed and somewhat crazy as well. Other than
that (and the Portland visuals) the movie has little else to offer
though. It's entertaining but has no real surprises or anything worth
remembering. It's one of those movies that viewers will be hard pressed
to remember any of the details to less than a year from now. Still it's
not dull and not much worse than any of the dozens of other movies it's
copying.Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jg1sS3cWJyw
