1
Choose your punishment Mr.Nolan, Death or Exile?

I'm not one for writing reviews, but the positive response this movie
is getting makes me uneasy. I'm really worried about the general
population. The acting is just shocking. Michael Cain delivers a good performance,
but because everyone else is so terribly 2 dimensional, his character
seems almost comically overacted. The story is cliché, poorly written and the time-jumps are just bad.
Why is Bane pushed aside in the last 15 minutes of the movie and an
intelligent, interesting character turned into some girls thug (some
girl we know, or care, nothing about). It's bad, I didn't know Nolan
was capable of anything this poor. The movie would have been far better
if Bane was a real person trying to incite a real revolution. And I
find the glorification of the rich in this film interesting at a time
when their is global social unrest towards them in real life. Is this
propaganda or what?Why don't the bad guys use their guns? Don't they know that just
pointing them at batman doesn't do anything? And walking closer and
closer to him until the gun is almost touching him also doesn't help?
And then using their gun as bat instead of as a gun is also stupid? And
the background combat is also lame. I saw way too many punches that
actually didn't touch the face of their victim. It's just poor and
unacceptable. Why the hell do all the cops just walk towards the enemy in a big mass?
Only the first line can fire? One grenade in the middle of them will
destroy them? What kind of city sends all of their cops down a hole?
Even if they somehow decided doing this was a good idea, they wouldn't
send 10 thousand cops leaving the city unprotected. How about the army?
When Batman tells robin (LOL) to get people off the Island, why does he
go and grab 10 kids? Out of a city of millions? Where the hell is the
cities population? Why don't we see anyone except Bane and a few of
this thugs? How does Batman keep appearing exactly where he needs to be
at exactly the right time without explanation? Who the hell is
cat-women and why do we care? Why does the bad chick (who's Banes boss
apparently) keep yabbering with her finger on the detonator, instead of
just pressing the damn thing? It's not 1990, those things just aren't
acceptable. Oh god the prison scene, It's been a long time since I've wanted to
vomit and kill myself at the same time, but this did it. Cliché to the
maximum. And when Garry drops the bomb diffuser just out of fingers
grasp, on the moving truck. Man, come on Nolan, were you even a part of
this film or did you just pay others to do it for you and pick up the
pay-check? Did anyone who's raving about how good this film is even
watch it? Makes me depressed. I could go on and on but I can't be bothered and nobody is going to
read it. This should be a 6 on IMDb, and that's generous. People are as
stupid as the movie.
