3
Overrated, weird, predictable yet random, but nonetheless Korean.

The main plot does have potential, but when you realize what the
message of the movie is 20 minutes in, the writers have done something
terribly wrong. Add that with constant horrible plot flaws, and you
have a very pretentious movie. What makes me give this movie 3 stars
instead of 1 star, is the fact that this is directed and written by
Joon-ho Bong who is from South Korea. It is obvious that the movie is
very different from a western world movie, but the standards of Korean
movies apparently just don't make up for western standards. You could
make this into an anime, and it would've been perfectly fine, but in
the form of a Hollywood movie, it just doesn't work. Bad: -Some things in the movie straight up make no sense, and it feels
like it's written by someone with short term memory at times. Example:
Okja getting mated by a male "super pig" to get babies to produce more
meat, but is after taken to a slaughterhouse. -The confusing character "developments". Example: The character Paul
Dano is playing is at a point completely beating up one of his
friends/co-workers for a mistake. You are led to believe he will
develop into an evil character, but in the rest of the movie he helps
Mija in the kindest ways. Every character in the movie seem to change
personality in every scene they're in, except Mija.-The obvious goofs placed solely to make simple people laugh. You
choose to make a movie about a very serious topic, because you want a
message out. When you then add small (or big) things that almost break
the 4th wall, simply to make people laugh, you can't expect ANYONE to
take this movie seriously. Example: After the chaotic chase of Okja,
the Korean guy who has to take care of Okja (they guy who actually
seemed nice to Mija in the start) takes a selfie with Okja. It has no
purpose, no addition other than it will make 'some' laugh. -Somewhat followed by the last point, the chase of Okja by the police
is too chaotic. The circus music implies it's supposed to be funny, but
5 minutes earlier you felt for Mija for losing her beloved Okja. It
mixes emotions so horribly, but again, I'm not sure if this just is
this culture's way of directing.-The CGI of Okja is alright and not great. In the start it seems pretty
good, but later in the movie you always notice something "off" in every
scene with Okja.Good: The acting is pretty good from the recognizable actors. Hide the
fact that the character development is horrible (which isn't the
actors' fault), and you will see some nice acting. Some of the actors
act very "extreme" which I believe is the Korean/Asian way of directing
the characters. I've seen a lot of people bash on Jake Gyllenhaal for
being too obnoxious for acting this way, but Tilda is exactly the same,
and at least it's what is seen as "normal" in the Asian anime type of
culture.Conclusion: Lots of things are wrong with this movie. It's mainly the
plot and script that doesn't make sense, and many times it feels like
the story doesn't progress, but resets and then starts somewhere else,
which makes it annoying to watch. I personally did not enjoy watching this movie, and I wrote this review
because I didn't like how this movie actually is being praised by
critics, and how Netflix gave a budget of 50 million dollars to this
team, who decided to use it all on good actors and ignoring the script
ENTIRELY. 3/10
