2
I haven't wanted to leave a movie half an hour into it before.

"That Awkward Moment" was appropriately named, as most of the movie was
scripted, forced, and cliché. As a 23 year old female, I was actually
insulted that this is what Hollywood thinks is interesting or relevant
to my demographic. It seems as though people this age have been dumbed
down to toilet humor, drinking, cursing, and casual sex. The plot line
was so uninteresting and predictable that had I would have been more
intrigued watching an episode of Barney. It almost seemed like it had
elements of "Crazy, Stupid, Love" that went horribly wrong, especially
because of the lack of character development. The plot even fell short
of the cliché I was expecting, as at least 2 of the characters never
had that magical moment where they realize the wrongs of their ways and
mature. They were the same, stagnant personalities all the way through
the film, the only things that changed were their relationship
statuses. Having three main characters with their own stories, the film
had at least a 1 in 3 chance of making an intriguing story line.
Instead, the plot walked the already worn out path of the traditional
romantic comedy script. To make things even more painful, the comedic
timing was so off that even elements that could have been funny (the
coworker Fred) were just awkward and odd. The overuse of "f---" added
to the awkwardness as you could just tell that random cursing was
interjected into lines, maybe to make it more "youthful." Jordan's character, Mikey, was the character that I found most
bearable, as he seemed to have some sort of dignity or depth. Daniel,
played by Miles Teller, literally made me cringe with anger at his
nonchalant crassness, reminding me of that guy in high school who tries
to be funny but has no intelligence to back it up. Apparently,
repeatedly telling a girl that you are "the best b--- j-- receiver" is
endearing(?). Efron was completely unlikable and never really redeemed
himself or matured, making the film feel empty and unfinished. Overall, "Awkward" checked all the boxes of a basic romantic comedy,
including all of the wrong, stereotypically youthful ones. The only
thought I left with was wondering how Efron's character could afford
such a nice apartment.
