10
Disaster Masterpiece

The starting scene with the girl trapped in the car gave this movie a
very explosive head start. Dwayne Johnson (Ray) is already the hero of
the movie and I am anxious to see what will happen next.Special effects are amazing but this has become a norm in Hollywood
nowadays so I can't weigh all my stars on that one. But something
happened while I watched this beginning scene. A wave of intense
suspense apprehended me. I don't know if it was the buffet of heavy
sound effects and music or the expectation of what was to come but I
was instantly engrossed and excited about the film.Some say the plot of a family trying to rescue each other is absorbed
and 'been done before' but isn't this what anyone would do in a
situation such as this? Your family becomes number one priority and
what's better than a dad who is a search and rescue squadron? Utilizing
every creative means of modern transport in California to save the one
daughter he has left. However it seems logic was a bit lost on this movie. And maybe I just
like finding the logic holes. But while everyone ran one way, the
leading cast ran the other way, directly into the epitome of disaster.
Making it all the more harder for Blake's parents to track her down.
What also bothered me is during the telephonic call where they
communicate their plans to meet at the Coit Tower. They had a secure
line and enough time to make a plan B. Why didn't they? Instead Ray and
Emma just had to guess where their daughter might go next and sail
around aimlessly through the 49 square miles of flooded San Francisco.
Eventually, with the creative use of a laser light. Their hearts full
with hope that they will be reunited. Yay! But wait.. over all the
barriers they broke through to get there, one wretched layer of glass
stands between them. And for half an hour you watch as a re animated
version of Titanic comes to life and suddenly the building is a sinking
ship filling with water level by level. This is the part where the
acting gets really genuine. Blake's drowning death is significantly
spine-chilling, considering her sister died the exact same way. Ray
takes some time to recover from the recall and gathers the strength to
break through and rescue his daughter. When mother could have saved
them the hassle and jetted through the window to begin with. All these logic flaws, unfortunate as they are, they make this movie.
They add the story line as every movie has always done. If Emma and
Blake didn't get themselves into all kinds of trouble then where would
Ray be able to display his amazing heroic talent? I give it a 10 out of
10 because despite its flaws, this movie gave me a feeling that was
notably powerful. Like I was there, experiencing the terror with them.
That is very difficult to achieve so I commend the Director Brad
Peyton. As well as Dwayne Johnson's role that fit him perfectly.
Alexandra Daddario with her performance during the drowning scene and
Carla Gugino when she sees her daughter is dead. Also the scientist
played by Paul Giamatti when he witnesses the Hoover Dam go down and
predicts the repercussions that will follow. Excellent acting.
Excellent directing. Superb CGI, and an engaging topic.
