3
Genre saturation Showcase.

Don't take me wrong. I did not hate The conjuring 2. It is an enjoyable
film, in many terms. But I need to stress out, that this is one of the
many films that have come lately, which is absolutely all about selling
the product. The Hype. The anticipation. The goal of the producers lies
1 second after the ticket is sold, and not quite 1 second after the
film is over. The conjuring 2 takes its context out of a very
documented paranormal case which took place in England in 1977. It
narrates the story of a family of 5, single mom, and 4 children, which
are tormented by a spirit, and who eventually, get to be assisted by
experts-in-these-topics Ed and Loraine Warren.The premise might not be original at all, but it still works. The
problem comes when such a premise is used at an attempt to pull off an
over 2 hours long feature film. About 30 minutes in, you will start to notice that this film is
desperate. It is desperate to make you scared and live up to its own
trailers and expectations. It might succeed on some (mostly children
under 14 who sneaked inside the theater or whose irresponsible parents
lied about their age at the ticket booth). But seasoned horror film
enthusiasts will be able to anticipate almost every single jump-scare
or even take a leap of faith and predict the outcome of a whole scene.
Why? Because everything that happens in the conjuring 2, you have
already seen or experienced in other films. This is the type of film
you can watch with a notebook and start checking those clichés as they
appear. The effort through which the writers struggled to come out with
anything barely original or "never seen" before is noticeable, and
every time they fail. Now considering this film is 110+min long, you
will get tired quickly of hearing a loud noise, the a scream, and the
some generic paranormal door slam, or furniture dash, because it
happens a lot, and it get old a lot faster.Don't get me wrong. It is not a trash film. Production values alone are
worth the ticket. The film is beautifully filmed, in dark and ominous
colors, and the house looks stunning even in almost 95% darkness. The
music is interesting and tense, and the acting is top notch. (And the
vile nun got myself quite convinced it was Marilyn Manson) But if
you're there for the technical specs of it, you could have gone to
other place to watch Citizen Kane.It saddens me a little, to be witness of the decadence of the horror
genre. Where most of the production money goes towards jump-scare
roller-coaster rides like this one. The recipe for box office success
was found, and they just keep making the same cake with different
glazing. You will probably notice that before the film even starts,
when you see that 4 trailers, and then you cannot make the difference
between the 4 generic horror movies you've been shown. Probably you
won't even be able to recall the names of the films. Because it doesn't
matter. 3 stars. Enjoyable overall, but terribly generic.
