9
Boston Strong

It's unfair to compare Stronger to Patriots Day, since they are
entirely different features, but they will inevitably be pitted against
each other in terms of quality. Luckily, both films are fantastic and
present two completely different sides of the story, therefore both are
worthy of being made. I was certainly moved to tears more than once in
Patriots Day, but there's something truly special about Stronger. Quiet
but powerful, Stronger keeps its focus on one unbelievable story
without forgetting the importance of everyone banning together in
Boston following the terrorist attack at the 2013 marathon.It all starts with Jake Gyllenhaal and Tatiana Maslany's chemistry
together as Jeff Bauman and Erin Hurley, a couple severely impacted by
the bombing. Jeff, learning how to walk again after having his legs
blown off, became a symbol of hope for the city of Boston, and quite
frankly still is. Where Patriots Day focused solely on the bombing and
bombers, Stronger keeps its focus on what an event like this can do to
an already trying relationship. Their relationship is the heart and
soul of the film, and Maslany and Gyllenhaal do a phenomenal job of
making their chemistry feel real and grounded with earned emotion. I
can't tell you how many times I felt overwhelmed with emotion just
watching these actors work through their scenes together.The entire film is grounded with that emotion, though. And several
performances are worthy of Oscar nominations. I personally think
Gyllenhaal and Maslany should be locks, but Miranda Richardson made a
strong case for the supporting category playing Bauman's mother, Patty.
These actors were the sole reason that I feel Stronger transcended the
typical bio-drama in every sense. I love the quiet sense of dramatic
weight that Stronger had. It doesn't show a ton of blood or trauma from
the bombing, nor do we get extended close-ups of Gyllenhaal's loss of
legs. Instead, director David Gordon Green ops to have his actors give
the audience plenty of emotion through their words and facial
expressions.Stronger is a remarkably moving experience. It's really a personal
romance that transcends into something that makes a whole generation
inspired. Watch out for this one, it will be a sleeper pick come Oscar
season, hopefully.9.6/10
