10
The Tear-Jerking "Me Before You": Reminding Ourselves of Living Boldly!

Thea Sharrock's film adaptation of Jojo Moyes's "Me Before You" is one
of those hidden gems, which we should all watch rather early than
later. First, the talented British cast is impressive. Emilia Clarke, Sam
Claflin, Janet McTeer, Charles Dance, Matthew Lewis, just to name a
few, beautifully create an emotional journey, which is more than just a
heart-breaking love story. Challenging our life perspectives every step
of the way, these actors invite us to live boldly and seize the
opportunities passing by. Louisa Clarke (Emilia Clarke), a naive 26-year old English woman, lives
in a peaceful village where nothing seems to be happening. Supporting
her whole family financially, Lou has a dull life working hard without
ever leaving our native city. When she loses her job at Buttered Bun
Cafe, her world is turned upside down. Desperately looking for a new
job, she goes to the local job center and is proposed to work for a
despicable 30ish-year old quadriplegic man called Will Traynor. His
desire not to get help makes him look miserable and frustrated.
However, with time, Lou pierces his shell and unveils Will's true
colors. She starts showing him how great his life could be. But one
revelation changes their relationship forever.Best known for his roles as Finnick Odair in "The Hunger Games" series,
Sam Claflin's portrayal of Will is exquisite. It is almost
inconceivable to imagine him not being a part of this movie. The
physical and psychological challenge of playing a quadriplegic man, who
needs to feel like a man again, elevates the English-born actor to
Hollywood's acting A-list. In "Me Before You", Claflin convinces us
that words are way more impactful than being good looking. Through his
presence on the screen, Claflin inhabits one of the most powerful
quotes of Jojo Moyes's original story, "You only get one life. It is
actually your duty to live it as fully as possible". Playing opposite Claflin, Emilia Clarke ("Game of Thrones") shines
through with her naivety and authentic, clumsy attitude on the screen.
Her unique facial expression, while crying and laughing, makes us fall
even more for the quirky, innocent Lou. No one could have ever filled
the role better than the Mother of Dragons herself. Emilia Clarke is
LOU CLARKE! From her crazy outfits in the movie to her charming
personality, Clarke has it all. "Me Before You" will be the catalyst in
her career, so let's be ready to see some more of this bumble bee.On a final note, we should be grateful to Jojo Moyes for questioning us
on the reality of assisted suicide and physical disabilities.There are
not lots of writers who have been able to make such a statement and
shake the status quo when it comes to life and death, but Moyes did it
beautifully. The only thing left to say is: GO WATCH this movie! You will not regret
it! It will make laugh, cry, but most importantly push you to embrace
life fully!P.S. Bring with you some tissues! You might need them!
