7
Terrific aerial  thriller by Spanish director Jaume Collet Serra and full of action, suspense and tension

Nail-biting and astounding thriller stunningly directed by the Spanish
director Jaume Collet -Serra . Outstanding action movie plenty of
thrills , suspense , intrigue , twists and turns . An excellent
whodunit deals with an air marshal (Liam Neeson) springs into action
during a transatlantic flight (the airplane used in the film is a
Boeing 767-300) after receiving a series of text messages that put his
fellow passengers at risk unless the airline transfers $150 million
into an off-shore account . After several e-mails , only to discover
that someone has taken on his account and that no one , not even the
crew , believes him . With the help of a young flight attendant
(Michelle Dockery) and a likable passenger (Julianne Moore) he sets out
to prove who he is . He confronts enemies in order to find out the true
killer , but someone is still after him and is forced to take up
violent means to discover them . He takes the law on his own hands and
acting as a desperate person . The hijacking was just the beginning .This exciting film contains suspense , thrills , noisy action,
shootouts , violent fights and plot twits . From start to final the
frantic action and fast movement is unstopped . The motion picture is
only set on two scenarios : the airport and mostly plane . However this
doesn't make boring it , as the movie will appeal to suspense
enthusiasts and thriller lovers . The aircraft is clearly fictional, a
type is never referred to during the course of the film , whilst it
appears to be the size of a Boeing 767-400, the cabin interior, door
operation & arrangement and flight deck layout do not match this type
of aircraft. The set for the plane was built very slightly larger than
a standard commercial airliner to accommodate Neeson's 6'4" height for
filming and roughly 200 extras were cast , all of them stayed
throughout filming . The runtime movie is overlong : two hours and some
but isn't slow-moving and is amount amusing for suspense and intrigue .
Liam Neeson is top-notch as a drunken and discredited air marshal ;
Liam Neeson has propelled many an action thriller to big box office
numbers, as Unknown , Taken 2 and this Non-stop . Accompany efficiently
to starring two nice actresses as Julianne Moore and Michelle Dockery .
There are many suspects , all support cast formed by good secondaries
such as Scoot McNairy , Corey Stoll , Jon Abrahams , Nate Parker ,
Jason Butler , Linus Roache , Shea Whigham , Anson Mount and Lupita
Nyong'o who in her next film would win an Academy Award .Colorful cinematography by cameraman Flavio Martinez Labiano using
Steadicam and with majority locations from plane interior . The
musician John Ottman creates a stirring , rousing soundtrack fitting to
frenetic action . Lavishly produced including spectacular scenes by the
successful American producer Joel Silver . The flick was compellingly
directed by Jaume Collet-Serra . Collet is an expert director of terror
movies as ¨Orphan¨, ¨House of wax¨ and for TV , ¨The river¨ , and of
course his greatest hit was ¨Unknown¨ also with Liam Neeson and similar
artistic team as cameraman Flavio Laviano , musician John Ottman and
producer Joel Silver . Rating : Better than average, well worth seeing
. The picture will appeal to explosive action fans .
