1
Worst movie adaptation of Spider-Man ever

Did the Homecoming writers actually think that pushing together the 2
split halves of the ferry boat would stop the boat from sinking? And
why did Iron Man just fly away after pushing the 2 split halves of the
ferry boat together, without even checking if any of the passengers
might be injured and need to be air-lifted to a hospital? And why were
there cars on the Staten Island Ferry? Don't the writers know that cars
haven't been allowed on the Staten Island Ferry after 9/11? And why
doesn't Spider-Man have Spider-Sense in MCU? When Peter ditched Liz at
the Homecoming dance and leaves the building, he gets ambushed outside
by 1 of the bad guys. No way that should happen with Spider-Sense. So
he definitely doesn't have Spider-Sense in MCU.Also, the absurdity of the Washington Monument scene. The elevator of
the Washington Monument gets blown up by a bomb that the fat kid had.
DHS would've interrogated the fat kid about where he got the bomb and
the fat kid would've been held in custody until he gave up Peter as the
guy who gave him the bomb.Then DHS would've investigated Peter and would've been suspicious as to
why Peter at the last minute decided to re-join the Academic Decathlon
after quitting the team earlier and travel with the team to Washington,
D.C. only to skip out on the Decathlon competition and the skip out on
the team's trip to the Washington Monument on the same day that his
best friend blows up an elevator in the Washington Monument using a
bomb that Peter gave him. And DHS would've gotten a warrant to search
Aunt May's apartment.Just more bad writing, as is usually the case in MCU movies.In addition to the bad writing, SMH's shallow and uninspiring portrayal
of Spider-Man's motivations make SMH the worst movie adaptation of
Spider-Man ever. Without outright mentioning Uncle Ben's death, Peter
being Spider-Man is reduced to a simple show-off. There's nothing
driving him other than wanting to look cool and impress Tony Stark -
and that's a shallow reason which betrays his true comic origins.Superman is shown by Jor-El how he can unite the human and Kryptonian
species and bring hope to Earth. Batman is driven by the death of his
parents and vows to do everything in his power to stop crime in Gotham.
Wonder Woman feels that it's her duty to end war and bring peace to
Mankind.Those are noble reasons which are inspiring. Spider-Man is in 1 of the
4 most iconic comic-book superheroes along with Superman, Batman, and
Wonder Woman. But his motivation for being Spider-Man in Homecoming
isn't because he believes he has a "great responsibility" to use his
powers for good (as he learned from his failure to prevent Uncle Ben's
death when he could've) but simply because he's hoping to get a reply
from Happy Hogan.
