9
an abstract portrait of the man..

... in that you can argue about almost every stroke in the painting,
yet when you stand back a few feet from the work, you realize that this
is a more accurate portrayal of Steve Jobs than any photograph could
be.For example, Michael Fassbender looks nothing like Steve Jobs did at
any point in his adult life, sounds nothing like Steve Jobs did. Yet,
by the end of the film you feel that you are looking right at the man.
Why? Because every incident portrayed sounds EXACTLY like something
Steve Jobs would have done or said even if the entire incident never
happened.Kate Winsett gave an Oscar worthy performance as Joanna Hoffman, Jobs'
marketing expertise and confidante, if he had any confidante at all.
She acts as his conscience, his anchor, yet she actually wasn't there
for a third of the film. Hoffmann retired before Jobs went back to
Apple. As for Seth Rogan as Steve Wosniak, what can I say. He blew me
away as he stood toe to toe with Fassbender in a show down that took my
breath away with its intensity, and he stole the entire scene from
Fassbender, proving he is much more than just the comic relief of Judd
Apatow films.Jeff Daniels as the conventional CEO John Sculley, recruited by Jobs to
deal with a most unconventional visionary in a pioneering industry,
absolutely nails the part. The scene towards the middle of the film
where Sculley and Jobs have it out is a work of art in itself of
dialogue, editing, and acting, and the time shifting between the
present and various pasts of their relationship is expertly done.As for the plot? It takes place entirely at three product launches -
the Mac in 1984, the NeXT computer in 1988, and the iMac in 1998, and
the central theme is Jobs' relationship with his daughter Lisa, the
paternity of whom he did not come to terms with for years. Of course,
if Jobs had even one product launch like the ones in the film with
everybody he's ever known approaching and reproaching him, Jobs would
have had security like the secret service at every launch afterwards.So don't approach this like a documentary, instead approach it like the
art it was meant to be and I think you'll enjoy it greatly. And
regardless of what others say, I think it gives the most humane
portrayal of Jobs I've seen on film. Strongly recommended.
