3
This movie is an embarrassment for Disney.

This movie fails to show why a remake was necessary. It fails to bring
the morals of the old movie into the modern world and it fails to
develop the characters overall. It also shows a disappointing amount of
visual inconsistency just to promote one Hollywood Star. The female-female-relationship as central point rather than the male-
female-relationship is nothing new since Frozen. In fact, Prince
Philip, who is even more one-dimensional than his cartoon-version, is
still there at the end to be the one and only. Considering how easy
this film avoids any conversational aspects between Aurora's real
parents and "adoptive parents" just shows that plot development and
modern problems were not what the writers thought about. Aurora's
mother dies off-screen and nobody, not her husband, not her daughter
ever seem to take any notice. Just to avoid any problems between the
two mother figures in this movie.Not only the Queen and the young Prince are loosing screen-time and
depth, the three good fairies in the Original had personalities, while
they are now only a bunch of annoying and incompetent additions for the
sake of obvious humor. The third fairy never actually was able to give
her wish. The movie never explains this plot whole. Maleficent is a movie starring a cartoonist version of Angelina Jolie
in a movie about Angelina Jolie. No character apart from her has been
developed with any love or thought. They are all background for more
Angelina Jolie. Overall I am deeply disappointed. If you compare the old "Sleeping
Beauty" with the new movie you can see the Disney tendency to go from
timeless movies to something that looks great but communicates nothing. Don't watch it with your children, they will not learn more than what
they can get from the old movies. Don't watch it for the sake of
nostalgia, because it's unable to provide the same quality it used to,
before 3D was able to overcome any plot wholes. And don't watch it for
the sake of crafty 3D. The same expected shots of flying, sunsets and
growing plants are used over and over again. You will get tired of
seeing the same overly perfect shot repetitively.
