2
Casey's Movie Mania: MAMA (2013)

Last year, when Guillermo del Toro helped executive produced Troy
Nixey's directing debut in a supernatural chiller called DON'T BE
AFRAID OF THE DARK, many horror fans were expecting an edge-of-the-seat
spookfest but what they got, was a horror-movie yawner instead. This
year, it's sad to say that del Toro failed to live up to his good
reputation for the second time in another supernatural chiller called
MAMA. Expanded by sibling filmmakers Andres and Barbara Muschietti from
their 2008 short, Andres Muschietti's directing debut does bears the
influence of executive producer Guillermo del Toro's trademark of
graphic supernatural elements and moody visuals. Unfortunately, MAMA is
a crushing bore that doesn't do much other than repeating the same
scare over the course of 109-minute running time.Like DON'T BE AFRAID OF THE DARK, the movie begins with a promising
setup: a depressed father named Jeffrey (Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau) shot
two business associates and his ex-wife, before kidnapping his two
little daughters: Victoria (Morgan McGarry) and Lilly (Maya and Sierra
Dawe), and flees with them to an unknown destination. During the
getaway, he was driving too fast on a snowy highway and eventually
losing control of his car. The car crashes, but all of them survives.
Soon after, he takes the kids through the woods until they come to an
old cabin in the middle of nowhere. Once inside, he takes out his gun
to prepare a double murder-suicide. But before he is able to pull the
trigger, something sinister appears from the dark and snatches him
away. The two little girls are then left by themselves with only the
mysterious creature as their companion.So far, so good. But what follows next is an awfully familiar story
that fails to find its proper footing ever since. Five years later, the
girls, Victoria (Megan Charpentier) and Lilly (Isabelle Nelisse), are
now grown up to 8 and 6-year-old respectively. Both of them are
gradually discovered living on their own in the cabin, and later
brought to an institute where they are studied and held under intensive
care by a psychiatrist named Dr. Dreyfuss (Daniel Kash). After years
living remotely all by themselves, the girls are feral, frightened and
limited in their language abilities. Throughout their state of
isolation, they are so psychologically disturbed that they are thought
to have created an imaginary female protector named "Mama".Then one day the girls are released into the custody of their uncle,
Lucas (also Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau) and his goth-rocker girlfriend,
Annabel (Jessica Chastain). However, Annabel isn't a motherly type and
doesn't seems to be comfortable having two children living in their
house. But that's not the only problem -- apparently the girls have
somehow brought along their "Mama" with them. Things get worse when
Lucas is hospitalized following a mysterious fall down the stairs, and
forced Annabel to be left alone with the girls. Slowly, Annabel
discovers something is very wrong that the so-called "Mama" isn't an
imaginary person after all.Everything in MAMA is painfully clichéd: the story is pedestrian and
most of the scares are more of the same. The pace is also slow-moving,
with nothing much happens and the revelatory finale is a huge
disappointment -- especially when the director finally shows the
full-bodied creature of "Mama". Needless to say, the creature looks too
fake with its spotty special effects.Somewhere in between, there are worthwhile camera placements by Andres
Muschietti but his overall direction is a routine exercise in style but
little substance. The cast does what they can with their given roles,
particularly from Jessica Chastain's credible performance as Annabel.The rest is a yawner.
