1
Here's what went wrong!

This is what happened when the crew decided to make this movie. Paul S.
Anderson met his crew and asked them:"OK people let's get some ideas about what this movie will have."Staff#1 "-hey, how about we make it like the new games and make it a
shoot fest?" Paul S. Anderson- "Sounds good, Done!" Staff#2 "Wouldn't it be cool if the zombies could drive cars and
motorcycles and carry weapons and chainsaws?" Paul S. Anderson- "Sounds good to me, Done!"Staff#3- "you remember when Claire and Alice fought that giant axe guy
in the fourth film? How about this time we let Alice fight two of
them?" Paul S. Anderson- "Good idea, Done!" Staff #1-"You know the fans want to see other characters so why not
introduce a few more like Leon, Ada and Barry?" Paul S. Anderson- "Sounds good, Done!" Staff#2-"Aren't we going to have too many characters running around?
How about we kill off one or two?" Staff#3-"We'll kill off Barry. Anyway he's an expendable character in
the game." Staff #1-" Yeah but make it a heroic death. Let's have him go out in a
blaze of glory brandishing his famous magnum. Fans like that sort of
thing" Paul S. Anderson- "Sounds good, Done!" Staff#2-" Hey I was watching Aliens the other day,wouldn't it be cool
if Alice became a mother figure to some unknown little girl who gets
kidnapped by a lichor and Alice has to save her like Ripley did?"Paul S. Anderson- "Sounds good but we'll have to rework the lichors
somehow. Done!" Staff#3- "People liked the characters from the first film. It would be
cool if we could bring them back somehow. It's a shame they got blown
off with raccoon city." Staff#2-"Hey if they can clone Alice why not her friends?" Staff#3-" You're so right man. But where did hey get the DNA?" Staff#2-" Does it matter?" Staff#3-" It's just another Umbrella mystery. What do you think Paul?" Paul S.Anderson- "Sounds good, OK people let's make this movie."In the bathroom next to the meeting hall you hear a toilet flush. The
fourth staff person comes out.Staff#4- "Hey guys, sorry I'm late but I have a great idea for the
story. If ties up all the loose ends. Umbrella finally falls. The cure
for the plague is found and the world is saved. I also worked on a
great script and intelligent dialogue. I even have a great idea for
coaching some of the mediocre actors into believable ones."Paul S. Anderson- "What are you talking about? We just worked out some
great ideas. Lots of action, explosions, new characters. We have
everything the fans want. As for acting? Did you see the first game?
The lame voice acting did not deter its fans. These actors will do
plenty fine for the fans. C'mon let's make this movie!"And this is why this movie turned out the way it did.
