8
More clever than it has any right to be.

I honestly didn't think I'd like this movie nearly as much as I
actually do. I went in essentially expecting a typical Seth Rogan
comedy, just random jokes and nothing else. But the rumors were true,
it actually is more clever than it has any right to be.I'll first say this, I don't think everyone will find it funny. If you
aren't already a fan of Seth Rogan's movies, like I am, the humor
probably won't do much for you. But I don't think anyone can deny that
the movie's story is very smart, and I think might make up for some of
the negatives you may have about the movie. The early reviews were
right, it has a lot of clever things to say about religion, about
taboos in society, about bigotry between cultures, and it's not lazy
about any of these subjects.Let me talk about the jokes for a second. Yes there are plenty of
sexual jokes in it, a lot of which I found funny. But I think the
majority of the laughs I had came from the different ethnic foods
interacting with each other. I could watch the Bagel and Lavash argue
with each other all day. If anything I think the majority of the sort
of sexual jokes people expect from the movie happen at the very end,
like the last 10 minutes of the movie.The voice acting is also top notch. All the voices fit well with every
character in the movie. I would love to see all of the actors in this
in other animated roles. Some of the actors play there roles so well I
had no idea which character they were. I had no idea that Edward Norton
was the Bagel, or that Paul Rudd was the main Grocery Store employee.
They all give great performances.But don't get me wrong, there are problems. Probably the major one
being that the villain really doesn't need to be there. He just kind of
serves to be a slightly disturbing character, who sucks out other
products' juice to become stronger. If they cut him out of the movie we
wouldn't have missed anything, apart from a few jokes from him. Also
the ending is very, well, an ending, in that it ends the movie. It's
one of those endings I wouldn't really describe as "bad" or "good" it's
just sort of "I don't really know how else they could have ended it, so
yeah I guess that works."The animation isn't all that great either, I mean it's not awful, but
it really shows that this is this particular company's first animated
film. One thing in particular that put me off was the designs on the
human characters, they're so hideous to look at. I have a feeling
that's part of the joke, but they really do look gross, and
off-putting.There is one more thing I have to say though. In the long run I'm a
little worried about the impact this might have on other R rated
animated movies. I'm a little worried that this might affect other
movies in a similar fashion as how Shrek affected kids movies. Like how
Shrek was funny and made a lot of money, so other studios, and
Dreamworks themselves, tried to replicate the success, and we ended up
getting really bad "Self-Aware Parody" movies like Chicken Little. I
just don't want the same thing to happen with this movie.I wouldn't call this movie "typical Adult Swim fodder" like I thought
I'd be calling it. It's too clever to deserve that label. It's a movie
that actually understands what "Satire" is, and in a day and age where
we have people just posting racial obscenities and calling it "satire"
when called out on it, I think it's great to see an R rated animated
movie actually understand how to do satire.I would recommend giving this movie a chance. I really respect that it
doesn't just throw crap at the wall and expects you to laugh. I
wouldn't go as far as to call this one of my favorite animated movies
of all time, but I will say I'm glad I saw it, and I had a lot of fun
watching it. I would give this movie an 8/10. It's not one of the
greatest movies ever made, but I do respect it, and I want to see more
good R rated animated movies come out of it.
