10
Ignorant Critics -Excellent and Appropriate Remake

I have no doubt that the many people rating down this movie are either
racists or people who don't understand the meaning of remakes.This film, a modern remake of the 1982 classic is rather delightful,
the beginning sequence pulled me in immediately and the first classroom
scene where ironically a class member with ginger hair, freckles and a
red cardigan is giving a presentation before our modern Annie is called
up to do hers is hilarious and clever in itself. Also seeing Annie's
journey to the restaurant really highlighted the modernness of this
film. It's set in 2014. Not the depression.The modern remakes of the songs are both fun and energetic though i do
miss the orchestra feel of the 1982 film. Quvenzhane Wallis (Annie) is
very talented and despite the unnecessary auto tune here and there,
pulls off Annie amazingly, her take on Sia's Opportunity gave me goose
bumps. This film is filled with hilarious fresh one liners especially
from Jamie Foxx, who plays the modern and very accurate version of Mr
Warbucks.This film will surely make you laugh, the only downside i have is the
fact that they could have done a LOT more Choreographically, for
example the choreography in the original hard knock life was astounding
whereas this version not so much. I also found one or two of the random
song break made me cringe. But the major downfall was the choreography
and the fact their are only 5 foster kids, these things are the reason
i can't give the film a 10/10.This is NOT Political correctness, most people fail to realize that
1982 Annie based off a fictional cartoon strip, was set during the
great Depression and a time where Irish and Ginger folk, two of Annie's
attributes were highly marginalized and carried negative stigma, that's
what made Annie special. The fact that she made people see through all
of that and love her for the sweet adventurous child she was despite
her social class. This modern reboot portrays Annie as a black girl
another marginalized group, if you don't believe me, look at all the
racist reviews. Annie could be any child, Black, White, Asian, but the
fact she was a ginger opened a lot of eyes and hopefully this film will
too.PS. I took my kids who have seen the original to watch this and they
loved it, no mention of race, no mention of Annie's hair, so you grown
adults complaining do look pathetic.All in All, GO SEE THIS FILM! And if you like it, write a review.
