1
One Trick Pony Ferrel- no rosette!

I confess I am not a huge Will Ferrel fan although I find him
watch-able in films which don't completely revolve around him. This was
not one of them. I thought I'd give it a go as I love political satire
but this was just a really poor display of watered down, repetitive
slapstick full of stereotypical characters and scenarios.To its credit the plot accurately conveyed the joke that is American
politics, particularly how it is big business and back handers that are
really pulling the strings and making all the big decisions and the
typical overplaying of 'family values' and every politicians close
personal friend Jesus H Christ, in their campaigns. The sheep voters of
course were all too happy to lap it all up and sway their opinion based
on the lame speeches and false promises of the candidates. It was all supposed to be tongue in cheek and satirical but in reality
it was just depressing and patronising. I don't need my comedy to be
intelligent by any means but the whole thing was just appalling.
Honestly I laughed a total of 3 times. Once was at a baby being punched
in the face.It really is just Will Ferrel playing his usual 'I'm an egotistical,
air head, a-hole' character, with a slightly different hairstyle. I
preferred the guy who played his opponent (Zach Galifianakis), both
character wise and performance wise.One thing that really bugged me about this film was the way that the
women were represented. Yes politics is a male dominated environment
but apart from a few mute women extras there was only one female who
really had more than a few lines and being Asian they were all pretty
much jokes about racial stereotyping and she was a maid. The rest of
the females were there as sex objects basically. The usual blonde bimbo
'Lewinsky' character, another who was walking around with her nipple
accidentally showing, the hot little, supportive wife who actually
turns out to be a power hungry, gold digging, cold hearted cow. At one
point Will's character seduces the oppositions wife just to smear his
character and campaign and of course she is warm hearted and naive so
had to be chubby and therefore grateful for his sleaze. Oh and they had
one black male speaking part and it was only a couple of lines and he
was technically mixed race, in a film set in North Carolina? Yeah okay
so a dumb comedy doesn't have a duty or responsibility to represent
society accurately but it makes it very clear who this movie is aimed
at.This is jock humour, strictly for Ferrel devotees and I had hoped for
more. He really is a one trick pony! Watch the trailer and then move on
with your life. Because those are the only good scenes in the whole
movie, condensed into a few seconds.
