4
This film needed to flatline if it had hoped to survive in the world of horror

After a fatal accident, Courtney (Ellen Page) endeavours to discover
the aftermath of death; is there an afterlife; a heaven, or just
blackness? Involving four other students, most undertake the task of
killing themselves, before reviving themselves. Each then deals with
the repercussions. The concept of "what happens to you after you die?"
is an intriguing and alluring concept, with a complicated and
interesting first-half. Throughout this half, we meet the five medical
students. Character development is weak within this film, so-much-so
that surnames are not provided (although this is not necessarily
important). Next to nothing is learnt of Marlo (Nina Dobrev), Jamie
(James Norton) and Ray (Diego Luna); three of the five protagonists,
making them seem distanced and unimportant. Whereas for Courtney and
Sophia (Kiersey Clemons), little development is supplied; but more than
the previous three. Not only are they distanced, but their reasoning
behind their actions is nearly always loose and unsupported by common
sense or "flatlining" aspects.Even worse, not only are they under-developed, they're uninteresting
and unbelievable; Ray being the most believable; yet still mildly
unlikeable. After constant deaths-and-revivals, we finally reach
thrilling suspense scenes, which were captivating and held back, unlike
most horror films which believe blood is scarier than suspense.
Realisation slowly sinks in for these students...extremely...slowly. An
awkward middle sequence soon evolves into mediocre and predictable
jump-scares which prove to disappoint. This middle sequence is dreary,
slow, and lagging, marking the beginning of a horrible arc to follow.
The purpose of the film is manipulated to "what happens to you after
you die?" to something completely unrelated; purely for the reason to
create a horror/science-fiction film, which not only becomes
uninteresting, but does not deliver the story-line needed to support
this concept.
