6
Oils well that ends well

"Full of sound and fury, Signifying nothing" could be a summary of this
modern-age disaster movie. In 2010 the "Deepwater Horizon" drilling rig
off the coast of Louisiana failed in spectacular fashion, bursting into
flames and spewing millions of barrels of crude oil into the Gulf of
Mexico in what was the worst oil-spill in American history. Mark
Wahlberg plays the well-respected electrical 'Mr fixit' Mike Williams
on the rig, reporting to the Operations Manager Jimmy Harrell (Kurt
Russell). The exploratory project is way-behind and BP are not happy. Big-wigs
from the company add support to Donald Vidrine, the BP site leader, in
applying mounting pressure on Harrell to press on regardless without
all the necessary and time-consuming tests by Schlumberger being
completed. Rogue numbers in further tests are waved away as 'glitches'.
A familiar story of corporate greed and pressure overriding the
expert's better judgment.When disaster strikes it strikes quickly, with some spectacular and
exciting special effects that leave the audience especially hot under
the collar. Female support is provided by the comely Andrea Fleytas
(Gina Rodriguez), given the almost impossible job of keeping the
floating bomb on station as chaos reigns about her. As an audience we
are back on familiar ground here from classic Irwin Allen disaster
movies such as "The Towering Inferno" and "The Poseidon Adventure". Who
will make it, and who won't?A more telling question here is "Do we care?" and unfortunately for the
film, the answer is "Not really". This feels a callous thing to say
when this was a real and recent event and eleven people and – as
touchingly illustrated at the end of the film in tribute – many of them
family men with young kids, never went home again. But film-wise, we
only really get bought into the fate of Williams, whose back-story,
with cute wife (Kate Hudson) and cute daughter (Stella Allen) we get to
meet and sympathize with. We get a minimalist view of Fleytas's backstory, but only enough to
provide a recurring "Mustang" reference. And that's it. All the other
characters are just two-dimensional "rig crew": cannon-fodder for the
special effects team. The screenplay by Matthew Sand and Matthew
Carnahan really doesn't deliver enough heft to get us bought in.While the special effects are good, the sound design isn't, with much
of the dialogue being incomprehensible.All the acting is fine, with the ever-watchable John Malkovich nicely
portraying the corporate head you love to hate. Wahlberg as well
delivers enough range to make you forget in this "action mode" that he
was also in "Ted". And Rodriguez as a junior lead holds her own against
the big guns in what is a creditable performance in a big film role for
her. While "Lone Survivor"/"Battleship" director Peter Berg neatly provides
an insight into life on and around rigs, and (via subtitles)
descriptions of the drilling process which I found interesting, this
comes down to the sum of a tense build up, an hour of frenetic
disaster, and then a whimper of an ending. Where were some of the
dramatic scenes of conflict in the congressional hearing that the
film's opening implies might come? Where are the scenes of ecological
disaster and local financial ruin to add emotional angles to the story?
None of this is really exploited and the whole concoction comes across
a bit "meh" as a result. Not a bad film by any means. But not one I
will remember in a month or two's time.(Agree? Disagree? For the graphical version of this review and to
comment please visit bob-the-movie-man.com. Thanks.)
