6
A bit disturbing, but mostly honest

To begin, I don't much like movies that show someone under the age of
legal consent having sex with a much older partner, HOWEVER...I
acknowledge that it happens, and that many times, the age of legal
consent is just a number, as there are 12 year olds that have the
maturity of a 20 year old, and vice versa.The first misconception that I would like to clear up is that somehow
Monroe acted in a predatory way, forcing himself on Minnie. His
behavior, albeit somewhat creepy, was not predatory. Au contraire,
Minnie was a willing and complicit partner and certainly seemed to have
the mental capacity to make the decision. In fact, while Minnie's 15-
year old hormones raged wildly out of control, Monroe often seemed the
reluctant lover who felt overwhelmed by her overwhelming "need". Of
course, as Minnie discovers, her "need" is not for sex; it is for
intimacy. And Monroe cannot provide her with that--perhaps because he
is at a different age and level, but more likely because he himself is
emotionally immature.The poor girl! She is surrounded by emotionally immature adults. Her
relationship with her mother is colored by her mother's relationships
with many different men. Minnie is constantly adjusting her life to her
mother's needs, as opposed to the mother meeting the needs of the
child. One of the most touching scenes is when Minnie and her mother
are in the kitchen eating lunch--and her mother tells her how in love
she was with Minnie's father. The audience sees Minnie glow as her
mother tells her this-- finally! Minnie realizes that there was a real
emotional connection between her mother and father--and it is
comforting to her. Maybe her father wasn't like all the other men (and
people) that float ephemerally through her mother's bohemian life.This movie takes us through Minnie's journey of self-realization that
sex and intimacy are two very different things--perhaps a journey that
all teenagers take at some point.The movie fails when the mother discovers the affair between Monroe and
Minnie. Yes, she would be angry--at her daughter, and at Monroe. But
would she get drunk with Monroe, and then summon her daughter to the
bar to tell her that Monroe must marry Minnie? Even making the excuse
that she and Monroe are drunk, it seems a bit more hare-brained than
she is typically depicted in the movie. Also, why wouldn't she
immediately tell Monroe that it is statutory rape, and at least
threaten him with going to the authorities? It's doubtful that she
would follow through, but at least threaten him. After all, she is not
such a terrible mom that her children have been taken away from her.
Also, the ending where Minnie bumps into Monroe at the beach while she
is selling her artwork with her sister...it is a bit contrived. It is
an ending that lets us know that Minnie has moved forward emotionally,
while Monroe is stagnating. And miraculously, the acceptance back into
the family by her mother and sister after her runaway attempt has given
her the confidence to sell her artwork at the beach. News flash--she
was accepted by her mother and sister prior to the runaway attempt, and
she has always been a talented artist! But the writer and/or director
wanted to put a neat little bow on it for the end. I give it a 6/10 for
being thought provoking, for great acting, for an authentic evocation
of the '70s, and an awesome soundtrack (yeah, Iggy Pop and the
Stooges!). Downgraded for the pat ending, and the unevenly written
character of the mother, who mainly comes off as a stereotype of a
single, '70s mom who has a man addiction.
