8
Funny and fresh comedy

I went to a screening of the F Word at the Toronto International Film
Festival and I can say I had a good time (I can also say that Daniel
Radcliffe is much much shorter in person than what you would expect.) I
wasn't sure what the story was or what type of movie it would be and
from the director of Goon and Fubar, I probably wouldn't have expected
a romantic comedy, but as it turns out it was and I quite enjoyed it. The film tells the story of Wallace (Daniel Radcliffe) and Chantry (Zoe
Kazan) who meet at a party when Wallace finally gets over being dumped
over a year ago and goes back into the world. He soon finds out that
Chantry has a boyfriend but the two of them decide they'll give a go at
being friends. Both characters are somewhat awkward and seem to have
little friends outside of Allan (Adam Driver) and Nicole (Mackenzie
Davis). Their best friends are common friends but for some unknown
reason they had never met before, probably due to Wallace being
somewhat emotionally unstable and completely shut off in his apartment
for months on end. The film is predictable overall but still brings some fresh moments. I
absolutely love Adam Driver and he plays more or less the same
character he plays on Girls but it was great to see him here. The
characters are lovable in their awkwardness and shyness and you do hope
for them to get together. They're also quite believable. Wallace was in
med school but dropped out (still because he got dumped honestly,
Wallace can't really handle being dumped) and now works at an
alienating low end job, while Chantry has that girl next door look and
works in an animation studio, with pressure to accept a promotion she's
not sure she wants. The film is cute for sure, but also really funny at times. I'm not a
huge fan of Daniel Radcliffe to begin with, having seen him only in the
obligatory Harry Potter series and the Woman in Black but he was quite
good, and different. It's a bit slow but I can't say that was an issue
for me. Toronto is featured a lot as the film was shot and takes place
there (for once, they're not pretending it's New York) so it was great
to see the city.While there is no release date set, the director said the movie should
come out around Valentine's Day so by all means, if you're looking for
a fun comedy to watch, go see it. It's way better than most movies that
come out for the holiday and it's one I believe both women and men will
enjoy.
