6
The rise of Ray Kroc

Batman, Birdman or, as he's more commonly called, Michael Keaton is
back on the big screen. This time the Bat steps into the shoes of a
mister Ray Kroc, the protagonist in 'The Founder' directed by John lee
Hancock. The movie has us follow a Ray Kroc who went from being a
fairly unsuccessful salesman to becoming the owner of the largest
restaurant chain in the entire world called McDonald's. The story of 'The Founder', written by Robert D. Siegel, is very linear
in its structure. It starts out with Ray Kroc at his lowest trying to
sell milkshake mixers to drive in burger shops across America and takes
off from there. From there on out the movie never makes any interesting
twist and turns and slowly progresses until it meets its conclusion.
Going into this movie one should not be expecting a film with a lot
intriguing elements and it ultimately conveys no message whatsoever.
Following Ray Kroc in his journey was still a very fun experience
mostly because MacDonald's origins were fairly unknown to me at the
time. There are some attempts to liven up the story, such as Kroc's
relationship with his wife, but most feel shoehorned in and aren't
given enough time to fully develop. If one were to watch this film a
second time its story will hardly be as interesting and I really see no
reason why one would.John Lee Hancock's directional style also leaves much to be desired.
Now it isn't necessarily bad, but the problem with it is that for the
most past it just feels flavourless. There are hardly any scenes or
shots that stand out aside from a minor few also used in promotional
material. Ultimately this movie could have been directed by almost any
no name director and it most probably would not have changed anything.
One thing that does make 'The Founder' stand out amongst the crowd is
the great acting from Michael Keaton. The persona of Ray Kroc seems to
fit Keaton like a glove and the unique mannerisms and quirks he brings
to the character make his performance incredibly fun to watch. The
other actors also put in a considerable effort, especially John Carroll
Lynch and Nick Offerman as Mac and Dick McDonald. Not a single actor
comes close to Keaton however and completely manage to create the sense
that they are actually living in this world.In the end 'The Founder' is a very bland movie. The story of Ray Kroc
is interesting enough to make it worth the watch but without the superb
acting from Michael Keaton this would have been a simple throwaway
movie.My rating: 6/10
