9
Ridiculously entertaining!

I love this movie! Furious 6 is even bigger and more over-the-top than
Fast Five, which I also loved! That vault-dragging scene was a blast
but this new sequel is even more epic and maddeningly entertaining!
This time, Hobbs and new sidekick Riley, played by Gina Carano, team
with Dom, Brian, Han, Gisele, Roman, and Tej to take down Owen Shaw and
his crew. If they succeed, Dom and Co. receive full pardons and the
chance to make their family whole again as Letty is in fact alive and
working with Owen Shaw.This movie opens with a race along winding roads that ends at a
hospital. Mia is giving birth and Brian's a mess. This movie is all
about family and I definitely appreciate that though I think they said
the word "family" about.... 1,675,894,035 times! I kid- The attention
to continuity is admirable with an opening titles sequence highlighting
super sweet moments from the previous five entries. There are a couple
surprise character appearances that should make fans smile at least a
little.The Rock is still huge and awesome, always great to see Vin and Paul
doing their thing (Paul does a better job here), and welcome back
Tyrese, Ludicrous, Sung, and Gal! Michelle's Letty still has attitude,
is tough, yet vulnerable. Seeing Letty and Dom together again just
feels so right. Sorry, Elena! Gina isn't that great of an actress but
she sure kicks butt! Luke Evans as the main villain does a swell job!
Best villain so far! His flip car is wild! Though his death wasn't that
epic...Speaking of deaths, one of the good guys doesn't make it to the
end, my heart AHHH! Poor Han...Furious 6 offers up a few twists, a ton of comedy (thanks mostly to
Tyrese and Ludicrous), over-the-top car and tank and plane action,
hand-to-hand combat (Jah vs. Roman and Han, Riley vs. Letty, The
Rock/Dom vs. Klaus), shootouts, a wonderfully directed race between Dom
and Letty, so much entertainment! You can tell that these guys and gals
are having a blast and know just how ridiculous and fun this series is!
I love how these characters end up back at the house from the first
film! If you're into crazy car stunts, fist fights, shootouts, beautiful
women, hilarious one-liners, cheesy acting, melodrama, fun, then this
movie is for you! The scene during the credits will make you wish Fast & Furious 7 was
coming out next weekend!
