4
Fitting In

The most obvious and cynical theory to come up with the existence of
The Giver movie is the success of futuristic YA movies such as The
Hunger Games and Divergent. Though, The Giver was never meant to be a
YA book in the first place, and it's already a two decades old book
that has been going through some controversies in the past. This movie
is proof that Hollywood is just picking books randomly and turn them
into movies to match the trend. The important question is does it stay
true to what makes the story so great? Apparently not. Not because it's
now starred with teenagers instead of twelve year olds, or it consists
more action scenes. The film just hardly cares about the concept and
gives more way to the corny clichés of the genre. The Giver does have a
taste for a blockbuster, but the heart of the story is missing and that
is definitely frustrating.The film introduces the story in the most typical way possible, which
has the hero doing voice-over narration for the audience. It doesn't
trust the concept either, so it has to immediately push the story to
the familiar elements of the genre. This is not a new case, of course.
Many young-adult novels with better narrative have been manipulated by
formula. But the story itself isn't about a revolution or a love story,
its main center is to rediscover the old natural world, no matter how
beautiful and ugly it was, and contrast it to the new rigorous society
that is peaceful yet terrifyingly naive. The relationship of Jonas with
the Giver and unraveling through sociopolitical conspiracies is what
makes it engaging, but again the movie doesn't have the love for that.
Instead it uses its length more on the visuals where the director can
do what he does best, which is to pull off some set pieces and grand
designs. Unfortunately those parts don't do much to the story, it's
nothing more than an exposition that is meant build up a thrilling
climax that isn't and never meant to be thrilling at all. And to stay
faithful to the source material's larger theme, during the chase at the
last act, one of the characters ends up preaching out a sheer
sentimental speech to the elders that feels terribly forced.How it created the communities looked cool though, with production and
special effects that gives a spectacular sense of scale, and how the
black-and-white world grow into colors is a fascinating watch, but I
think those are the only things the filmmakers wanted to bring to life.
Designing it as an action blockbuster doesn't necessarily sound like a
bad idea, but skimming out the soul that made the story compelling is
what tones everything down into another generic fantasy film. The
acting is okay, as usual. Brenton Thwaites does have the looks of a
hero, but he only leaves a few personality to the role, the most
conspicuous one is the kid's curiosity. A more natural fit is Jeff
Bridges who gives the gravity that should have been there throughout
the film.The Giver may have the external vision; the events, culture,
characters, and language stayed intact; but again, everything else
suffers the same problem. The rich world it already provides is no more
than a cool design, while replacing the unique narrative with clichés.
And it's not good at one of its clichés either, the additional more
focused romantic subplot is as underdeveloped as the others out there.
There just isn't much love to the subtext, the movie is basically just
fitting in to the era of young adult novels with bad politics and
rebellion; but again and again the story is never about them. It's
neither about the love story or the teen angst. Whatever point it tries
to say, it would only lie at the idea, and the movie didn't spend much
time to that. There is some interesting visuals to spare, but what's
left here is just another bland teen fantasy movie.
