5
Unfulfilled promise

Producer, director, writer and lead actor: Ben Affleck.Let's look at those contributions one by one.Producer. The film looks good. There's an expert team on both sides of
the camera. But there's a problem with length. Also, it feels as though
the adaptation from Dennis Lehane's novel has not sufficiently
transformed what was on the page into cinematic story-telling.Director. There are excellent action sequences, such as an exciting
car-chase and a final shoot-out. As a director of actors Mr Affleck is
strong: he elicits particularly striking work from Chris Messina, Elle
Fanning, Remo Girone and Sienna Miller. Within scenes there's a
reassuring sense of control of pace. But overall, there is a sense of
the director being in thrall to the screenplay.Writer. This is the weakest link. It feels in awe of its source
material. I read that an entire strand of the book was removed for the
purposes of the film, but this was not enough. The producer and/or the
director needed to tell the writer to put it through another draft. Or
put it in its current form on Netflix as a two-part drama.Lead actor. A matter of taste, I guess. Mr Affleck's persona is always
of a handsome man who knows he's handsome, and who is very pleased with
himself about it. I find this insufferable in large doses. And there is
a very large dose of it here. Mr Affleck's performances lack depth --
compare and contrast those of this amazing brother Casey. As far as I'm
concerned, Mr B. Affleck is more a male model than an actor: in James
Bond terms, he's a George Lazenby rather than a Daniel Craig. His best
film performance is his self-parodying turn in 'SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE'.
In LIVE BY NIGHT he is serviceable, nothing more. His director clearly
couldn't get anything else out of him.It's instructive to compare Ben Affleck to Clint Eastwood, who also has
a limited -- maybe even more limited -- range as an actor. But Eastwood
the director usually casts Eastwood the actor brilliantly. DIRTY HARRY,
UNFORGIVEN,GRAN TORINO etc: who could be better? By contrast, there are
many young actors who could have played the lead in LIVE BY NIGHT, and
many writers who could have delivered a better screenplay, especially
when guided by a strong producer and director. Time will tell whether
Ben Affleck is as good in those last two departments as ARGO suggested
he might be. The promise he showed in those areas in that film is not
in evidence here.
