4
Just a poor excuse of a comedy

McG hasn't really been seen in the director's chair since Terminator
Salvation hit theaters back in 2009. Audiences were split as to whether
they actually enjoyed Salvation or not as critics hated it and the
movie failed to make back its budget in its domestic gross. So what's
the logical next step after doing a movie about the nuclear holocaust
and the ongoing war between humans and humanoid machines? You could
probably guess the action bit, but the romantic comedy part would
probably throw you off.This Means War is the story of FDR (Chris Pine) and Tuck (Tom Hardy)
two CIA agents who are two of the best agents in their field. FDR and
Tuck are partners and best friends, but come to a gentleman's agreement
when they both start dating the same woman named Lauren (Reese
Witherspoon). Both FDR and Tuck begin falling for Lauren and not only
begin breaking the rules that they set for one another, but use
whatever means necessary to keep Lauren in their good graces.This Means War throws you right into one of FDR and Tuck's missions
right from the start. The main issue becomes how dizzying the camera
work is. The action hits extremely hard and is incredibly fast paced,
but you have a difficult time actually following just what is
transpiring in these quick cuts let alone trying to keep your wits
about you. This is kind of odd since I wasn't a fan of Terminator
Salvation, but felt like one of its strongest qualities was how the
camera always seemed to be in the right place during the action. Maybe
McG decided to regress back to his Charlie's Angels mindset for This
Means War.The action heavy romantic comedy is dragged down by annoying girl talk.
Lauren and her friend Trish (Chelsea Handler) do nothing but whine and
complain about their lives the entire movie while also revealing
they're basically the biggest whores around. This Means War paints this
picture of women that they all date multiple guys at once and will put
out just to try and make a decision. It's pretty demeaning to women in
general. Between Lauren and Trish's talks of the size of a man's
private parts or a lightning round involving sex, every inch of
dialogue between them is unbearable right from the start. Meanwhile,
FDR and Tuck have quite a bit of immature bickering between one another
as well. It becomes borderline homophobic at times and just feels very
third grade for nearly half of the film. The second half becomes a
little easier to digest and the highlight comes when FDR mocks Tuck's
British accent.The storyline is very imbecilic, as well. Using the gadgets,
technology, and basically every ounce of intelligence of the CIA to try
and win over a woman is just asinine. The actual mission, which is
certainly more interesting than the love triangle you're forced to
endure, isn't even second fiddle. It's more like the third or fourth
subplot of the movie. The FDR/Tuck/Lauren love triangle being the
primary, FDR/Tuck's friendship falling apart being the secondary,
Lauren trying to mull things over with Trish being the third, and Tuck
trying to be a stand up family man the fourth. So that would make the
actual mission the fifth subplot of the movie. How lame is that? This
Means War does get a little less irritating as it progresses. The jokes
get slightly less offensive and Tom Hardy still manages to be the best
part of the movie. While Reese Witherspoon has to make it a point to
try and jiggle around while wearing horrible clothes and singing off
key and Chris Pine attempts to be the biggest womanizer he possibly
can, they still manage to squeeze in Tom Hardy being a complete bad
ass. The paintball scene is one of the highlights, but the most
original aspect of the movie comes in one of the first (of many) dates
Tuck has with Lauren. He takes her to a carnival and at the end of it
takes her on the trapeze. It's actually really cool and would be a
really fun first date for anyone.This Means War is a frustrating and awful excuse for entertainment. Its
humor is lame and offensive in the way that it insults all of mankind
by how stupid and immature it is, its plot is horrible and insulting,
and Reese Witherspoon will test every last ounce of patience you
possibly have. This Means War gives you the impression that women are
easy and that if you've got enough game then everything works out for
the best. While it does have a few moments that try to make up for how
terrible it really is, This Means War still can't shake the fact that
its spewed excrement into your face for over an hour and a half.
