9
Every frame is an oil painting

This film melted me like the touch of silk. Although I wasn't fully
convinced of the transformation of Einar Wegener, I am deeply touched
by the Eddie Redmayne's fragile beauty as a women(or should I say
Lily). He comprehends Einar's psychological conditions perfectly, and
every twist of his facial muscles or movements of his eyes demonstrate
the perfect empathy he has for his role. I don't care about logical
consistency of plots or the point of view as long as he is the center
of images, he flawlessly convinces me that Einar sincerely believe that
he is born to be a woman. And as long as his feelings are as burning
and heart-felt as reflected in my eyes, there's nothing to criticize
about whether his decisions are morally right or wrong.It's spirit-shattering that Einar died in the arms of Gerda, and Gerda
did an extraordinary job in supporting her husband. I would give Alicia
Vikander a full score too, her performance reconstruct perfectly a
open-minded female artist that has unconditional love for her husband.
She forsook the obscure love she had for Hans, the right to be
protected and caressed as a wife, and everything women think they
rightfully deserves from their husbands. Einar said before he died:
"How would I ever deserve such love?"Seeing him pale like a vampire,
watching his hand sliding from her hand, it's hard to imagine the
heartbreak Gerda had. Would she blame herself for not forcing Einar to
the doctors instead of "indulging his hallucinations?" Would she blame
herself for letting her husband wear her silk pajamas and ballet dress
for her own artistic career? Would she miss the man that looks to her
eyes in the morning and whisper to her:"My life, my wife."? I drained
my tears for her anyway. Gerda is such a wonderful woman.I also feel obliged to comment on the institutionalization at that
time. The idiot psychiatrist can't even figure out the difference
between schizophrenia and a healthy man. One of the psychiatrist even
proposed a lobotomy, and at the wrong spot. Lobotomy is supposed to
sever the connection between frontal lobe and the rest of the brain to
treat those who get major depression or anxiety disorder and don't
react to medical treatment, the technique it is abandoned in the modern
world for its inhumane side effects. Stupidity of the doctor reflects
their ossified believes about trans gender people and their lack of
professional knowledge, which explains how hard it was for Einar to
defend his faith and for Gerda to stick to the belief that her husband
was not insane.Except for the fascinating acting skills, I really really really adore
the lighting and color of the film. I can proudly hang every frame of
the movie on my bedroom wall(except the scene Einar showed his male
parts, maybe), and proclaim them art pieces. Harmony of colors and
subjects, like oil painting, is the best solution for a film that is
filled by sentimental transformations. Or it would easily fall into the
trap of melodramatic depiction or confusion of emotions. But better
than A Girl With a Pearl Earring, this film is consolidated by subtle
facial expressions of actors and actresses, which clearly present the
inner struggles of characters.For conclusion, I love this films and the techniques are perfect. But I
find it difficult to agree with Einar. He burdened Hans, Gerda, pained
them emotionally, and even caused his own death, because he wanted to
have a female body? Is it the ability to have sex as a woman that's
more important, or is it his and his loved ones' welfare that comes in
priority? Let's leave it to everyone's own judgment.
