7
Coming from a formulaic genre, Southpaw is a bit cliché but it surely brings powerful performances and a promising storyline

Southpaw follows Billy "The Great" Hope, the reigning junior
middleweight boxing champion, having an impressive career, a loving
wife and daughter, and a lavish lifestyle. However, when tragedy
strikes, Billy hits rock bottom, losing his family, house and manager.
He soon finds an unlikely savior in Tick Willis, a former fighter who
trains the city's toughest boxers. With his future on the line, Hope
fights to reclaim the trust of those he loves the most.Antoine Fuqua has most certainly brought his charm back into the ring
by bringing a fascinating boxing drama to the big screen. Even though
it may have a all to familiar plot when it comes to the formulaic
boxing aspect, this film really smooths out well with such heavenly
storytelling, we are given a accurate accusation of how something can
affect someone in the hardest way possible.Jake Gyllenhaal giving a ferocious performance as a down on his luck
boxer was truly a grand experience. He really stuck to his character by
bringing such a mad man to the ring and a man who would strive to make
his family a whole once again, one wondrous performance I must say. One
person other than Jake that really stood out was Forest Whitaker, he
easily gave one of the best performances of this year so far!The boxing scenes were so enthralling, they involved such wall-to-wall
burst of punches with spraying blood and Fuqua's gutsy camera skills
that keep you motived the whole time. Jake snorting like a mad bull, he
surely brought out the horns to each opponent with a raging force,
these scenes were just so highly entertaining that they made your heart
pumping with such adrenaline. I was not bored at all with Southpaw, I was invested the whole time.
Even with its clichés, the film surely beats them down with mighty
performances by its lead and supporting cast and cosmic storytelling.
The drama was foretold fluently with a good take at how a family can
fall apart and reconnect in such a turn of events, I loved that, it
flowed along so ideally with a strong tone. In the end, SP is surely a
spellbinding film towards a strong man that doesn't get knocked down by
what life has to swing at him!
