10
Crossing the Line Through Sheer Ambition

Whereas Gone Girl explored the wild misconceptions and dangerous
influence of the media, Nightcrawler explores another even more
corrupted facet of the entity's nature: shamelessly capitalizing on the
popularity of crime television혰violence, murder, blood, gunshots. The
program's ratings continue heightening along with the network's desire
for even more thrilling footage. Nightcrawler follows Louis Bloom (Jake
Gyllenhaal) as he climbs up the ladder of success and builds a career
through rash ambition. Lacking a formal education and adequate work
experience, he's truly a victim of the unfair modern job
market/unemployment. So, he says "screw it" and takes matters into his
own hands, acting with sheer desperation and eagerness to reach that
level of power and affluence America so often glorifies. After personally witnessing a car accident on the freeway as snooping
reporters close in, the scene lights a fire inside Louis and inspires
him to give the job a try. Soon afterwards, he purchases a camcorder
and a radio scanner, persistently discovering new crime scenes to
capture on tape as intimately as he possibly can. Thus, his extensive
coverage grabs the attention of a morning news channel, and a special
relationship forms therein: a consistent supply of new
gruesome/entertaining crime footage for an increasing sum of money. As
we see the frightening lengths Louis is willing to strive towards in
order to prove himself as a proficient workingman and elevate his value
above and beyond, this grave thriller intermittently surprises us with
effectively mocking twisted humor, but the incredibly deranged human
psychology on display keeps us startled and tense throughout
regardless. Gyllenhaal arguably gives the absolute best performance of his career
in a role that substantially differentiates from his earlier work. His
creepy, relaxed composure hides the true inner scariness and ferocity.
Publicly, Louis is a professional, polite, and upstanding citizen who's
just looking to work hard. Privately, he violently yells in front of a
mirror until he shatters it, as well as blackmails a TV news director
to further his career. Rene Russo also impresses as the morning news
director혰almost as daring in her lust for more provocative violent
imagery혰who's beguiled by this eccentric and only (mistakenly) fuels
Louis' psychotic drive. In addition, Riz Ahmed's Rick serves as Louis'
gullible, clueless "employee" who just wants to escape the dispiriting
state of homelessness and finally earn a living, completely unaware of
the perilous and unethical situations he'll be cast in along his
employer's selfishly ruthless path.This isn't the kind of film whose quality solely relies on a central
performance because the narrative is just as cruelly gripping.
Unfortunately, the film industry is stocked with so many safe
crowdpleasers and compromising thrillers that it's wholly refreshing to
see these uncompromisingly grim, chilling psychological character
studies occasionally pop up. The film becomes more morally repulsive
and disturbing as it proceeds while the satire on the American Dream
and merciless ambition becomes that much more brutal. Nightcrawler is
deeply unsettling as well as it is honest in its portrayal혰Los Angeles
is actually the perfect setting, beautifully shot in its alluring and
deceptive nighttime scenery. After all, it is probably the #1
destination for the unrelentingly audacious and reckless individuals of
the nation in search of a prosperous career.
