10
"Power to the people! Stick it to the man!"

Is it worth the price of a movie ticket? Yes!I felt that this film was captivating in all aspects of story-telling.
Especially in it's acting where all characters in the film did a superb
job with special mention to Viggo Mortensen (Ben - Father) and George
Mackay (Bo - Eldest Son). This film depicts the difficulty of parenting
at the highest level as Ben has to raise his 6 children in the
wilderness alone in the way he thinks will be best for them. Bo shows
the rational side of this story as he accepts who he is, how he was
raised, and who he wants to become in the future. We clearly see the
struggle of a young man who will take care of his siblings yet long for
a life he has never known. This was my first time seeing George MacKay
on the big screen with a big part and he certainly did not disappoint.
His performance along with Viggo Mortensen was the perfect balance for
the film.The realness and rawness of this film aligns perfectly with Ben's
choice in parenting and survival instincts in the wilderness. We are
easily immersed into the idea that civilization and it's systems of
government are toxic and that we as a people who take part in it are
living the wrong life. A film that can manipulate at such a high degree
is a great example of a film with a genius plot.The cinematography was beautiful as to be expected. Our setting for
most of the film is in the Pacific Northwest and it was a pleasure to
see that they didn't saturate the screen with wide aerial shots of the
forest and mountains throughout the film. Instead they focused more on
the home within the mountains. Details highlighting living spaces
indoors and outdoors was a beautiful contrast to the another setting
later in the film. Kielyr "This house is a vulgar display of wealth"
Vespy "and an unethical use of space!". I believe the cinematographer &
director chose not to concentrate on details of the luxurious house as
they did with the home in the forest. Mostly shot on wides to display
its enormity and that was all that was needed.The soundtrack I felt fit perfectly with the film. Times of quiet were
also used very well here. The editing was seamless and kept the story
moving perfectly.I take my hat off to Matt Ross for a genius script that focuses on
ideas of socialism, the complexities of human relationships, and coming
of age story. With his role as director, he was able to execute the
overall emotional effect of the viewer with the film's well balanced
blend of comedy and pathos.
