10
A masterpiece of family angst

Wow! I'd heard all about the Oscar hype surrounding this film but to be
honest, while I thought I would be seeing a solid and well-made indie
film, I went into it without great expectations of having an
'enjoyable' time: the trailer had "angst" written all over it. And –
sure – it is emotional and harrowing in places. However, I was
completely knocked out by the depth, the intelligence and the humour of
this masterpiece.'Family troubles' is a common trope for the movies, and I was strongly
reminded at times in watching this movie of a multi-Oscar winning
classic of my youth: Robert Redford's "Ordinary People" back in 1980.
In that film the relationship between parents (Mary Tyler-Moore and
Donald Sutherland) and their teenage son (Timothy Hutton) is rocked by
the accidental death of another family member. Similarly, in
"Manchester by the Sea" a drifting handyman Lee Chandler (Casey
Affleck, "Triple 9", "Interstellar") gets the shocking news that his
only brother Joe (Kyle Chandler, "The Wolf of Wall Street") has
suddenly passed away, leaving behind a mid-teens son Patrick (Lucas
Hedges) with no-one to look after him.With the other option being an unstable and ex-alcoholic mother Elise
(Gretchen Mol) – now divorced and living in a strictly pious household
with new husband Jeffrey (Matthew Broderick) – Joe has legally plumped
for naming Lee as the boy's guardian. This is much to Lee's surprise
and annoyance. For Lee is a man-adrift: an antisocial loner with a very
short fuse. Having any sort of responsibility is not in his game plan.With the ground too frozen to bury his brother, Lee is forced to remain
in Manchester-by-the-Sea for a few weeks: a town he can't stand and a
town that, for some reason, can't stand him. Can Lee's attitude be
softened by his lively and over-sexed nephew? Or will he just continue
his emotional and social decline towards a gutter and a brown-bag?
Where this film surprises – with a strong kick to the gut – is that
while I have described the high-level story in the paragraphs above
that the trailer depicts, there is a whole other dimension to the tale
that is hidden and truly astonishing. No spoilers, but if you are not
shocked and moved by it, then you need your humanity chip reset.Casey Affleck is Oscar-nominated now for Best Actor and I would love to
see him win for this. I had a real go at his brother, Ben, for a lack
of facial variation in his performance in "Live By Night". Here, while
Casey has a similar dour and pretty rigid demeanour, his performance is
chalk-and-cheese compared to Ben. He channels a shut-down rage in his
eyes that is both haunting and disturbing in equal measure.Young Lucas Hedges – overlooked by the BAFTAs (he is in the "Rising
Star" category) but yesterday nominated for a Best Supporting Actor
Oscar – is equally strong, burying his teenage grief in guitars, sex
and smart phones in a highly believable way.Supporting roles are equally strong, with Michelle Williams – albeit
only having limited screen time – delivering truly memorable scenes,
notably the street encounter with Lee (as featured on the poster) which
is electrifying. She is also Oscar nominated for the role.What really makes these performances shine is the elegant directing by
Kenneth Lonergan, better known for his screenplays on films like
"Analyze This" and "Gangs of New York". He gives the actors time… lots
of time. A typical example is when young Patrick walks into Lee's
bedroom and stares at some photos on his bedside table before walking
on. It must be a good 20 to 30 seconds used, but time really well
spent. The film spectacularly uses flash-backs to great effect, with
the only visual notification that you are in a different time-zone
being the living and breathing appearance of Joe in the shot.Lonergan also writes the screenplay, and I mentioned in my introduction
the humour used. There are some outright belly laughs in this film,
which feels incongruous with the morbid subject matter but which also
feels guiltily appropriate (we've all surely had an experience where a
tense funeral mood is lightened by an uncle loudly farting at the back
of the church, or similar!).Manchester-by-the-Sea is a picturesque place in Massachusetts, and the
camera work by Jody Lee Lipes ("Martha Marcy May Marlene",
"Trainwreck") lovingly makes use of that. There is incredibly crisp
focus, with the opening boat scene looks like it is hyper-HD.This is a truly stunning film, and one that will live with me for many
years to come. For that reason it receives my highest accolade together
with my best wishes for success at the forthcoming Oscars. If you
haven't yet, go see it.(For the graphical version of this review please visit
bob-the-movie-man.com or search for One Mann's Movies on Facebook.)
