8
A deep and subtle meditation on sexuality and subjectivity

Man! I was not expecting this kind of a knife to the gut when I bought
my ticket for "Maniac" knowing nothing about the movie.I like horror movies...sort of...but I don't like gory movies. It
scares me and disturbs me to see that kind of thing. This movie...is
full of gruesome, unwatchable scenes of torture.But...it works. This is one of the only gore films I've ever seen where
the gore is necessary. Well, why is it necessary? Most of the film is
shot in first-person perspective, from the eyes of the troubled killer.
He cannot reconcile his sadistic, aggressive impulses to torture and
punish women with his tender impulses to love and be loved by them. Whenever he is sexually attracted to a woman he responds with a host of
symptoms that might be seen as unconscious attempts to protect him from
something unbearable inside. He washes his hands until they bleed, he
blacks out, he has hallucinations, he has crippling migraines...but
nothing works as well as killing and scalping women...reducing them to
objects. The director plays cleverly with this conceit by making him a
restorer of mannequins. So far, so good. What this film does well...and I can't remember the
last horror movie that had this effect on me...is to hit dangerously
close to home. I recognize myself in this killer...I recognize that
masculine desire as such has the potential to turn into what is
presented here...the main character barely appears on screen...he is
nothing but a desperate gaze seeking an object to consume with his
scary watery blue eyes. It is only once he has killed his victims and
transformed them into inanimate objects - their bloody scalps (the
scalping in this movie is even worse than in Inglourious Basterds) -
that he is able to come to be (temporarily) as a subject and not as a
pure restless gaze. The director makes us feel his relief by only
giving us third-person glimpses of the titular maniac when his blood
lust is (temporarily) sated. I found myself letting out a deep breath
every time the camera backed away from Frank for a few short seconds
after a kill. We feel, viscerally, the back-and-forth between the
libido's ruthless injunctions and the stifled desire to be a human
being among other humans (here, being included literally in the frame
with others). Incidentally, this is why this film works in a way that
"The Lady in the Lake" doesn't - the "pure" first person fails in that
film because in life we do not experience ourselves "only" from the
first person but rather from a back-and-forth between the first and the
third person. The many scenes of the maniac stalking the women are very creepy, for
the simple reason that much of what he does - looking at women, maybe
following them a little, perving on their curves - is just normal male
behavior. On my way home from the movie, lost in thought, late at
night, on an empty street, I nearly walked into a young woman, walking
home alone, and then found myself walking behind her on the sidewalk. I
hope she didn't see the same movie I did.But why is the gore necessary? The gore is necessary because this film
is a meditation on the subject/object split constitutive of
subjectivity as such. The "pure subject" that is gaze can only be
satisfied by encountering a "pure object", one that can only be found
somewhere inside the body of a woman. Freud might say that Frank is
searching for the fantasized maternal phallus...an interpretation that
fits perfectly with the maniac's backstory. We need to see the gore
because we need to feel the frustration that this character feels...we
come to understand that he is so oppressed by his own "subjectivity",
the prison of his own gaze, that he is compelled to commit horrible
crimes, to cut through bone and skin, just to get some relief from his
drives. Another creepy and effective feature of this film is that at least one
of his victims is an awful human being whom we want to see die. It is
disturbing to realize this. "Get her, Frank!" I found myself rooting as
he followed the gallerist home. It was also perspicacious of the
director to present Anna to us first as a sort of angelic soul who
presumably sees the maniac's inner beauty only to reveal to us later
that in fact she is a shallow narcissist whose interest in Frank was
always self-serving. We are as surprised as Frank when she says she has
a boyfriend...why? Because she has been leading "us" on until then. The
nickel drops when we meet her boyfriend in the bathroom: he is a sexy
macho jerk, the kind of man women like Anna like in real life. Anna
turns out to be almost a female counterpart to Frank: a woman not
interested in other human beings but in objects...in the mysterious
object inside herself (hence her own face projected on the
mannequins)...we sense that the difference between her and Frank is a
question of degree, not of kind...the true difference between them is
that they occupy asymmetrical positions vis-a-vis the same hypnotic
object: the maternal phallus hidden somewhere inside a woman's body. A brave role for Elijah Wood...brave because it uses to full advantage
his weird blend of adult and infantile features...his very body and
face (especially the eyes) are turned into disturbing external
manifestations of his inner conflicts. 8 stars for a movie that has made me feel, viscerally, some disturbing
truths about sexuality and identity that previously only registered on
the intellectual level.
