7
A strong, seductive argument for Security over Choice.

At it's core this is a movie with a very worn out theme of Ubertypical
Americanness: Communism vs Capitalism (ofen inaccurately labeled
Democracy or Market Freedom). It's about the choice between strong,
oppressive community values versus individual choice. Absurd forms of
'sameness' have been explored in both Kurt Vonneguts Harrison Bergeron,
and every movie with alien beehive societies, which are thinly veiled
mockeries of communism. Think the aliens in Starship Troopers and
Battle Star Galactica.Both have their ups and downs. The world of the Giver is bland, but
safe and secure. There's joy, happiness. People know what to expect. At
the same time, there's little choice. Your job is state-assigned, but
to be fair, it's what the person is most competent in.Our world is less secure, but we have choice and color. We also have
much unhappiness and pain.It's a little like Northern Europe+Canada vs America. In America, the
potential for wealth is theoretically stronger than in Europe, while
the potential for poverty is very strong. In Europe, it's not easy to
get rich, but it's not easy to be poor either. And what Americans are
starting to realize is that while we're told that we can be a
millionaire at any moment, it's not happening for 99.9 percent of
Americans.If the question is asked "would you give up security for freedom"? most
liberals would think of the Patriot Act and say NO. But the Sameness
world of the Giver is so peaceful and beautiful, even I as a liberal,
am strongly inclined to like that world, because unlike the real world,
the collective centralized government is functioning extremely well. The cheap shot that Lowry and the film take is the black and white
gimmick. With that gimmick the film wants to drive home (with a ten
foot baseball bat) that the Sameness society lacks in color and
individuality, it's all black and white. That's pretty cheap.Conservatives are quite hypocritical about all of this, they preach
government hate, but don't mind imposing their values with the help of
government, they will gladly use government to enforce vaginal probes
(which is rape) in Virginia. They will sell this movie as the ultimate
argument against "communism" but strongly support the communism that
still exists in Utah. There's no real difference in oppressive social
controls via religion or via the state. For all intents and purposes,
rank breaking Mormons will pay a high price to be different. Mormons
can't really leave their church, because they have strong business ties
to their community.While this a decently made movie with good acting, pretty actors, and
nice graphics, I find that the message of the movie is flawed because
of the easy potshots it takes on the Sameness world: "Oooooh, a highly
government run worlds will lead to a bland black+white society.The Melancholic Alcoholic.
