9
The Coolest & Most Unique Film This Year

Edgar Wright remains one of my all-time favourite directors. Why?
Because each and every film he crafts reeks of originality, he takes a
few similar traits, throws them together, delves down a completely
unexpected route and forms something unique, something masterful. From
'Shaun of the Dead' to 'Hot Fuzz' and so on and so forth, each film
feels like something you think you've witnessed before, but on a whole
new level, something fresh, something alluring, packed with
adrenaline... and of course, 'Baby Driver' followed suit.'Baby Driver' is an utterly engrossing caper-comedy that is (in my
personal opinion) the finest film to face 2017 so far, I couldn't help
but smile throughout, from the stunningly executed action scenes and
stunts, through to the soundtrack (with an abundance of classic rock
and soul tracks) and finally the heavily relatable characters. The lack
of disappointment in Edgar Wright's work continues with this masterful
film, which is ultimately also one of the coolest films of the past
decade or so.Many of the heist films of recent years have been rather disappointing
when it comes to both story and technical achievement, however when
something like 'Baby Driver' makes an appearance, it's refreshing to
know that indie films are still taking this planet by storm and
shunting the blockbusters out of the limelight. To know that certain
production companies still trust the creativity of a director over the
monetary expectations, and by doing so, unleashing a flurry of
fantastic independently "driven" films.I'm gonna finish with this (partially odd) statement / testimonial...
when I went to sleep last night, I had odd dreams of car chases and
stunt driving to rock classics, and that is thanks to this film, the
fact that it stuck with me even when I wasn't fully conscious. That's
how much of a damn cool film 'Baby Driver' is... just go watch it, just
throw away your tickets to 'Transformers' and 'The Mummy' etc, and go
see this instead.
