7
Hard crowd to please

Wow. A lot of people seem hard to please on here. Most series are
struggling by the 7th entry (7 stars appropriate) having ruined
continuity, rehashed the same formula seen before or by having lost
original cast members. A Nightmare on Elm Street had to switch it up to
'it's a movie but not', Halloween had to bring JLC back, Saw was
calling it a day, Hellraiser was already screwed and Friday the 13th
gave the heroine telekinetic powers to spice things up. It's damn hard
to keep a series going and adding new ideas.I thought this entry had a lot going for it. Whilst only glimpsed post
credits in Curse, Cult sees Andy Barclay back and all grown up since
the first 2 entries and also with the original actor, Alex Vincent.
Thanks to his childhood run-ins with Chucky, Andy is pretty bad ass
taking no crap and is out to to stop him (much alike Tommy in Friday
the 13th Part 6 which was a bloody good entry).One reviewer said this was cheap in production. This is what I thought
of Curse, of which after 2 attempts of watching it, 4 years later
(thanks to Cult) I revisited that film and watched it ignoring the
lesser production budget. I was maybe a bit harsh. Cult employs
animatronics over CGI at every turn apart from one shot that I could
see of. I much more prefer this as animatronics still work the best for
this character even in this modern CGI world.The kills are a throwback to some other films but overall are fantastic
for gore with one drill scene which would have had the censors in
uproar a couple of decades ago. I love the continuity for this film as everything in previous entries
is in place and hasn't been changed with many a nod to earlier entries.
For fans of the series this does show the love Mr Mancini has when
writing these later entries. Add to this all the familiar cast are back
including Fiona Dourif who turns out to be an excellent piece of
casting (being the real life daughter of we know who) when 'expanding'
her role later in the film (I'll not give anything away on that).Lastly, people seem divided on the humour in the series. I personally
enjoy it. This entry has the humour lacking from Curse which I found a
bit bland without it. This entry has enough without being too OTT like
Bride or Seed. It's probably my favourite entry and a while since I've
seen it but i recall CP2 having some dark humour so stop moaning those
who don't like it.Overall the entry managed to breath some new life to the series with a
new concept that could prove interesting if used minimally (again not
saying more)....we are on entry 7 but it ain't telekinesis! The series
has moved away from cinema release so the budget is never going to be
what it used to be. This can be seen now and then but thankfully not
when it comes to the FX for Chucky. Child's Play/Chucky films are what they are - about a murderous doll
who kills people. They are watched by fans who know what they are
getting. I look forward to entry 8 and seeing where things go. Make
sure you watch after the credits!
