10
Suspenseful! A perfect thriller!

The screenwriter who gave us "Sicario" and "Hell or High Water" has
come back with "Wind River" which he also directed and I am now
convinced more than ever that Taylor Sheridan is one of the best
storytellers of our time. There's something about his thrillers that
are just so cunning and sharp and profound, like a great American
classic, even novelist Dennis Lehane probably couldn't come up with
materials that are as skillfully played as this. And with "Wind River"
Sheridan's personal artistry mission to do some effort to right the
wrongs that the system has committed against the Native Americans,
continues.The story is about a rookie FBI agent (Elizabeth Olsen) who teams up
with a tracker/hunter (Jeremy Renner) with a tragic past in order to
investigate the murder of a local girl on a remote Native American
Reservation.Sheridan has tackled themes surrounding the Native Americans before but
with this latest one, it's not so much that he's preaching about it but
he ties it into this entire fabric of community where you sense the
clash between outsiders and locals, between whites and natives, so
there's a level of frustration about that arises from this murder
investigation that brings up all kinds of cultural suspicions, on top
of which there's also a game of jurisdictions. It's a complex yet
cleverly woven thriller that starts out as a whodunit and evolves into
a thirst for retribution. And the fact that it's set in a very cold
harsh environment just adds to the film's chilling effect.In many ways, Elizabeth Olsen performs here like Jodie Foster's Clarice
Starling where at some points you kinda know that Olsen's character may
be out of her elements, but at the same time that factor actually gives
her a good vantage point. Jeremy Renner plays his character like an old
timer western hero who knows the ins and outs of everything, a man of
few words but gets tough when needed. Their dynamic is not some kind of
odd couple cop duo, this is more like each of them trying to prove
themselves while bringing justice to the family of the unfortunate
girl. And the way Sheridan crafts the mystery from a small radius to a
much larger scheme is one that will have you hooked. "Wind River" is
highly suspenseful, it's a perfect thriller.-- Rama's Screen --
