7
Visuals, Music, and Imagination Make Pan Soar Above Its Poor Story

Joe Wright's Pan is one of the most recent additions to Hollywood's
long history of big-budget, highly publicized box office flops. Think
Waterworld, John Carter, or Heaven's Gate. Some infamous bombs, like
the ones I mentioned, failed because they are bad movies. Others, like
The Lone Ranger or Cutthroat Island are victims of circumstance. That
being said, I expected 2015's Pan to slip right into that former
category. A superhero-style origin story for Peter Pan? There is no set
of circumstances that can make that premise interesting to me. So
imagine my surprise when this mega-bomb turned out to be a mostly
captivating cinematic experience.Pan is the story of a young orphan (Levi Miller) living in London
during World War II who is taken to a magical world called Neverland
where he searches for his long-lost mother. Along for the ride is a
slave named Hook (Garrett Hedlund), who for some bizarre reason is
portrayed as a weird cartoon cowboy thing, and a native princess named
Tiger Lilly (Rooney Mara). The rest of the plot concerns Blackbeard
(Hugh Jackman) and his mining of Neverland for life-giving pixie dust.
Yeah, it sounds mighty stupid. The idea of creating explanations for
the world of Peter Pan and Neverland reeks of Hollywood cynicism at its
worst. "People like gritty reboots, right? Well what if we do that to
Peter Pan?". It has 'disaster' written all over it. And yes, Pan's
story is misguided and worse yet, not interesting. The good news is,
this movie is not about story. It's about atmosphere, and on that
front, Pan is truly exceptional.Pan was a total surprise for me in terms of tone. I was expecting,
justifiably so, a standard kiddie adventure movie. What I got was a
daring, eccentric, and decidedly well-crafted piece of filmmaking. This
is the farthest thing from the hacky studio garbage the story suggests
it would be. Joe Wright, the director of heavy dramas like Pride and
Prejudice and Atonement, does some real filmmaking here. But it is not
enough to say Pan is not the hack job it could have been. There are
moments are sheer brilliance in Pan. Hugh Jackman's entrance into the
massive pixie dust mine, where he is greeted with a haunting rendition
of Nirvanna's Smells Like Teen Spirit, or a later scene between Peter
and Blackbeard in a shroud of orange sheets are, dare I say, visionary.
There are many such scenes in Pan. Scenes that seem like they have no
place in a "family fun" kind of film. Joe Wright was clearly not
interested in doing anything safe. Pan is totally bizarre and
surprisingly mature, clearly not made with children in mind. In fact,
this is most certainly not a movie for small children. The clowns that
snatch the orphans from their beds are guaranteed to scar even older
children for life, and Jackman's Blackbeard may be more disturbing than
any other movie pirate in history. Jackman's performance is over the
top, but he doesn't wink his way through the role. He has monologues on
death that would make Dustin Hoffman's Captain Hook fill his pants.Pan is a movie that lives off its visuals and music. Again, the story
doesn't really matter. The pleasure of watching Pan is in seeing the
strikingly imaginative visuals and hearing the mesmerizing John Powell
score. Visually, Wright does more than just show pretty pictures. This
is as close to a virtuoso piece of image-making that can be done with
material like this. Pan is completely original in its look. Apart from
the dreary opening sequences, Pan is as bright, colorful, and creative
a movie as I have seen in a long time. The Neverland landscapes, the
giant skeleton birds, and the multi-ethnic Natives, which caused a
stupid and misguided "controversy", are unlike anything I have ever
seen. From the costumes to the action scenes, Pan is a work of
originality and quality in its every frame. As for Powell's score, it
is a huge part of why Pan feels like it does. Without the dreamy music,
Pan would merely be an imaginative, good-looking, and well-crafted
flick. With it, Pan is quite simply, hypnotic. For two hours I sat
there fascinated by what I was seeing and hearing, even as I rolled my
eyes at what was happening.Here's the deal with Pan. Those expecting a sweet little family
adventure, and that's probably a lot of people considering it's a Peter
Pan movie, have every right to be shocked by what Joe Wright and
company have done. This is a truly bizarre concoction. I'll credit Joe
Wright for the fact that instead of repelling me with its weirdness,
Pan captivated me. I can't get around the fact that Peter Pan's origin
story is pretty much trash as a concept, and there are a few lame
attempts to pander to a younger audience (I expect these came from the
studio to hedge their bets with the kid market), but Pan surprised me
in the best possible way. What had every right to be a disastrous piece
of studio drivel turned out to be a bold piece of sure-handed
filmmaking. Foundationally broken, at times visionary, but always
interesting, Pan is worth a look, if only to judge it for yourself.
What you will make of Pan comes down to how taken you are by the
movie's atmosphere. It swept me up.75/100
