5
The Unbearable Lightness of Frances

Greetings again from the darkness. All the critics are raving about it.
Love abounds for the latest from director Noah Baumbach and his
co-writer and leading lady Greta Gerwig. What makes my ambivalence even
more confounding is that I'm a fan of Baumbach (The Squid and the
Whale) and Gerwig (Greenberg). The expert level of filmmaking and
acting is obvious, the script details and dialogue are exceptional, and
the situations and setting are realistic. So why aren't I more excited
about this one? That's what I've spent the past few days wondering.It seems Frances Ha delivers everything I look for in an indie film.
The problem is that I find almost every character to be annoying and
self-absorbed. The first act finds Frances (Gerwig) sitting on top of
the world. She has a boyfriend, a BFF/roomie, and is a dance company
apprentice with the expectation of a dance career. Soon enough she
watches Strike Three go by and her world is in a tailspin. We then
watch Frances trudge on through uncertainty and instability in living
arrangements, personal relationships and career path. It plays like a
road trip that really never hits the highway.Frances moves in with Lev (Adam Driver) and Ben (Michael Zegen) and she
is oblivious to Ben's interest as she obsesses about her former BFF
Sophie (Mickey Sumner). See, Sophie is trying to grow up while Frances
wants to stay in her dream land where she and Sophie remain "the same
person with different hair". Frances then crashes at the apartment of a
fellow dancer played with all seriousness by Grace Gummer (Meryl
Streep's daughter). The two dancing opposites attend an awkward dinner
party at which Frances manages to spew an endless stream of absurd
remarks that advertise her lack of maturity. Her response to this is to
take a spontaneous trip to Paris ... charged to a new credit card.Make no mistake. Frances is a very energetic and sincere free-spirited
twenty-seven year old. The kind that is only charming in the movies. If
her quirk wins you over, you will find yourself rooting for her to get
her life together. That would put you in the same corner as most other
film critics. On the other hand, if you recognize the optimism, but are
unmoved by the immaturity and self-absorption, then you are banished to
the corner of those who "just don't get it". And I'll be right there
with you.
