7
Decent but there is a part that bugs me

So I just saw Hotel Transylvania 2. And yes, it is funnier and more
enjoyable than the first Hotel Transylvania. I just have one complaint.
One little thing undermines the entire moral of the film.The whole film is about how it doesn't matter what you are and that
those that love you will accept you. The whole film is about how even
if he is human Dennis will be accepted. However Mavis gives serious
consideration to moving to California and nearly does even though
Dennis AND Jonathan clearly want to stay in Transylvania.Here's the spoiler. Toward the end of the film it's revealed that
Dennis actually is a vampire. His vampirism emerges when his best
friend / possible future romantic interest, the little werewolf girl is
in trouble. Here's the problem. The whole film has this ham handed
message about acceptance and how it doesn't matter what Dennis is. Yet
it does. It really, really does. As soon as things calm down he asks
"Since I'm a vampire does this mean we can stay at the hotel?" And
Mavis says "Yes." Just yes. Nothing about how she might have stayed if
she had just known and accepted that's what he really wanted. This
"cute" moment under cuts the entire message of the film.I know that as an adult I'm probably over analyzing but it kind of
bothers me because otherwise it's a very sweet and funny film.I actually don't mind Dennis becoming a vampire. That was kind of cute,
especially the reason as to how. What bugged me was "Since I'm a
vampire does this mean I can stay ant the hotel?" and Mavis says "Yes."
So much for what he is not mattering. What he is should not have
anything to do with if they stay at the hotel or not. That undermined
everything!Since there are so many complaints about Hotel Transylvania 2 I will
give it this one nod of appreciation. I am very grateful that the
cartoon Dracula can shapeshift into multiple forms. I miss depictions
of Dracula that can become more than just a bat. Little things like
that please me.
