5
Fun film with a lot of nostalgia

Using the basic 'alien invasion' concept this film has it all, with a
nostalgic twist for the arcade games generation. A bit simple, yes, but
still a fist full of entertainment.The actors do a great job, the fact that Mr.Iwatani (creator of Puck
Man) participates as a hardware tech in the arcade at the beginning, is
thrilling. The CGI is very well made and representation of the game
characters was flawless in spite of that several famous elements from
the 80's were missing.An interesting detail that sadly put me off already at the beginning of
the film as we're back in the 80's browsing an arcade, - the monitors
in all game cabinets are of flat screen type!? This is painfully
obvious given that flat screens weren't around till at least 15 years
later. All games then used standard CRT displays. In later scenes there
were some CRT televisions and old CRT computer monitors shown.Personally I would have liked more of the classic games involved in the
invasion. Where was Gorf, Moon Patrol, Ghosts n Goblins and several
other of the time's famous characters? Donkey Kong, which by the way
was a tad too generously promoted, is and always will be a great game,
but as the supreme ruling force of the alien invaders, the monkey is
just out of its place. Why not have the Gorf mother ship pose as the
ultimate threat?Even though the film manages to deliver plenty of game nostalgia, as
well as hang on to its objective as 'pixels VS humans', I can only give
it a mediocre score. Because of its lack of research in the area of
video game history, where it should, and could do much better. "Pacman
and Donkey Kong" are of course two of the most famous games ever
created, but how about a 'giant kung-fu master' walking down the
street, kicking and beating buildings and vehicles? Or the Moon Patrol
rover shooting down airplanes? And what about Scramble? I noticed the
Konami logo on a few occasions, but where were the games? So much I
missed in this film, yet I still enjoyed it.
