1
The Twilight Saga – Part 4B

With a plot only a Twilight-mother could love, "The Twilight Saga:
Breaking Dawn – Part 2" is unintentionally one of the funniest movies
of the year, to the point where any sane moviegoer would suspect that
most of the scenarios here were played for laughs and parody. OK, so if you enjoyed the final novel in Stephenie Meyer's series, word
on the street is that you'll enjoy this installment the best. This
might have something to do with Bill Condon being the first director to
fully embrace the campiness of a world predicated on werewolf
pedophilia and unprotected vampire sex, and also creating the most
visually off the wall adaptation yet; with no regard to the viewing
audience. But for every non-Twihard out there, "The Twilight Saga-
Breaking Dawn- Part 2" will stand as one of the worst films of the
year, in a series that has only gotten progressively worse.Why this is clearly the worst film of the series: The film begins with
Kristen Stewart doing her best mountain lion impression as she crawls
along the forest floor, hunting a deer, and only goes downhill from
there. I'm not going to bore you with what you already know, a la this
film contains a wealth of bad acting from the likes of Stewart, who
should never work again, Taylor Lautner, who probably will never work
again and Rob Pattinson, who throughout this movie couldn't look more
ready to be done with the series (although Michael Sheen does give an
eccentrically interesting performance as Aro). What I will be
addressing here is the cornucopia of other problems which make this
film almost unwatchable. Just a heads up, some of my points will
contain plot spoilers, so skip to the "Final Thought" if you are still
planning on watching this "film".1.This movie contains some of the worst special effects of any big
budget film (yes, including "The Green Lantern") in the past decade. I
won't bother to touch on every terrible CGI fiasco which occurs here
(the vampires running effects, the vampires leaping tall buildings in a
single bound effects or the laugh out loud tearing of people heads off
effects) for fear of rambling-on more than I already am. But that
doesn't stop me from asking the one question that is on everyone's
minds. What's up with that baby's face?! When Renesmee is an infant,
while it is obvious that a real baby is used, for some reason her face
is completely computer generated, with half-assed CGI at that. The
baby's face is so obviously fake, extremely creepy and immensely
distraction that it is sure to haunt your dreams long after you've left
the theater. 2.There is pretty much one human in the entire film and he is an idiot!
The human I mention is Charlie Swan, Bella's father. The issue with him
in this film is not necessarily the character himself, but the
sloppiness in which he is almost written out of the story. When we
first see him, he is obviously concerned for his daughter, since he
doesn't know if she is dead or alive. When he finally sees that she is
all better, with what looks to be a one year old infant in her arms, he
seems to be brimming with questions. But when he demands answers from
Bella, and she dismisses him (this would make more sense if you saw it)
Charlie does what any worried father would do, he accepts the fact that
she can't tell him anything and leaves her with the vampire family. 3.From a bland joke about the Loch Ness Monster, to all of the
laughable monologues, the script contains some of the worst dialogue
outside of an ABC Family show. And must mention that about 50% of this
movie consists of dull voice-over narrations from Stewart and
Pattinson, attempting to either explain back-story, introduce new
characters (which there are many) or simply explain what is going on in
the scene.4.The ending is a copout. Now, I don't want to give too much away for
the few who still want to watch this, but there is a final battle
sequence that occurs (FINALLY!!!) which in turn is the best part of the
movie. And is absolutely ruined by a twist ending, which comes off as
nothing more than a convention to soothe any crying teenagers not ready
to witness a violent movie about dreamy vampires.5.One word: PEDOPHILE. Imprinting is a huge aspect in the novels. If
you don't know what that is, "it's an involuntary mechanism by which
werewolves become unconditionally bound to somebody (i.e. a soul mate)
for the rest of their lives." Thank you Twilight Wiki page! The problem
here is that throughout past films in the series, imprinting has been
equated to not so much finding a soul mate or becoming someone's
protector, but more so finding a mate or lover. So, when Jacob
(Lautner) imprints on Renesmee with implications that he is in love
with a child, visually it comes off as gross and super creepy, at the
very least. Truthfully, at any moment I was expecting Jacob to yell,
"You can't leave, Bella! I'm in love with your baby!" Written by Markus Robinson, Edited by Nicole I. AshlandFollow me on Twitter @moviesmarkus
