4
Middle of the road romantic weepie fare

As romantic dramas go, The Lucky One is pretty thin stuff. It has a
workable premise and everything, but the movie can't think of anything
to do with itself, so it pads out its running time with one musical
montage after another. You know a director has run out of ideas when he
puts two different montages in about a span of two minutes apart from
each other. The film is based on a book by Nicholas Sparks, who has
done much better (and worse) than this. This falls somewhere in the
middle.Our hero is Logan, a Marine fighting overseas as the film begins, and
played with wooden indifference by Zac Efron. There's nothing
particularly interesting about Logan to begin with. He's handsome, he's
noble, he works hard, and that's about it when it comes to his
personality. Despite this, Efron could have shown a bit more life in
his performance. After a particularly intense battle, Logan spots a
photo of a woman lying in the rubble of the battlefield. Lucky thing he
found and walked over to that photo, as moments later, a bomb drops
where he was standing just seconds ago, killing his comrades. Logan
finishes his tour, but is obsessed with discovering who the woman in
the picture is, and who it belongs (or belonged) to. He returns home
briefly to Colorado to live with family for a while, but when he can't
readjust to civilian life, he packs his bags and, with his faithful dog
Zeus by his side, decides to walk cross country to search out who the
mysterious woman in the photo is.His travels take him all the way to North Carolina, which is quite an
amazing feat to walk all that distance. What's even more amazing is how
Logan managed not to get dirty, or even mess up or grow out his hair
during those many long months of walking. He arrives at a farmhouse/dog
kennel, where it just so happens that the woman in the photo lives and
works there. She's Beth (Taylor Schilling), who works at the kennel, is
a single mother to her seven-year-old son, Ben (Riley Thomas Stewart),
and shares the home with her mother (Blythe Danner, who gives the most
interesting performance in the film). Logan means to tell Beth about
the photo he found that day, but he just can't bring himself to mention
it. Part of this is because of Logan having issues with his own past as
a soldier, and part of this is for plot convenience, so that the movie
can drag out his secret as long as it can, until it is dramatically
appropriate. He takes a job at the kennel, and becomes a natural taking
care of the many dogs.He also starts building a bond with both Beth and her young son. She
starts sharing her private hopes and dreams with him, and little Ben
starts taking him to the old tree house where he hangs out, which is
accessible only by crossing a rickety old bridge over a raging river.
As soon as I saw that broken down old bridge, I knew it would collapse
at one point - most likely during the intense climax, and during a
storm. Sure enough, as the climax approached, those storm clouds
started rolling in, and all the central characters started heading for
that bridge. Logan also gets to meet Beth's ex-husband, Keith (Jay R.
Ferguson), who serves as the town Sheriff as well as the town bully.
He's a one dimensional villain who exists solely to push Logan and Beth
around, and threaten to take Ben away from them. As a villain, he
couldn't be any less subtle if he was wearing a T-shirt at all times
that had the words "HI! I'M A SLIMEBALL!" written on it.The Lucky One is pretty standard stuff as these kind of films go - The
central romance between Logan and Beth is nice and all, but the
characters don't really have a lot of personality to go with their
physical attractiveness. You get the feeling that these two don't have
a lot to talk about when they're alone. The movie also has its share of
corny romantic lines, such as when Logan tells her, "You deserve to be
kissed every hour, every minute, every second of every day", or when he
says, "Finding that picture of you on the battlefield was like finding
an angel in Hell". Yes, the movie is gooey in its sentimentality, but
it never offends. I also enjoyed Blythe Danner's performance. She seems
to know what kind of a movie she's stuck in, and has a little fun with
it, delivering some much needed sarcasm and wit in her performance.
It's no wonder I found her the most interesting character, she's the
only one who gets to act like a real person.The movie was directed by Scott Hicks (No Reservations), who's done
some films I've admired, but seems to be cashing a paycheck here. I
don't blame him for wanting to take it easy once in a while, but I wish
he had picked a more interesting script. I can't really picture The
Lucky One being a very memorable romantic weepie, but hey, I said the
same thing about The Vow, so what do I know?
