6
quirky surreal Australian coming of age tale

Boys In The Trees is another local coming of age story that joins a
growing number of recent Australian films exploring familiar themes of
the pain of growing up, friendship, angst, romance, the loss of
innocence, memory. However, this one is suffused with a surreal
quality, quirky touches and an unsettling supernatural element. It has
been described as The Lost Boys meets Donnie Darko, a rather apt
description. It is set in suburban Adelaide on Halloween night in 1997.
The film follows Corey (played by Toby Wallace, from Galore, etc) as he
hangs around with his skater friends, led by the bullying bogan Jango
(Justin Holborow). Corey is a more sensitive teen and a keen
photographer and is reassessing his direction in life. He has set his
sights on going to New York to further his ambition, a decision that
doesn't sit well with Jango, who has no idea of what his future holds.
During the night, while Jango and his gang, known as gromits, egg
houses and have fun at the local skate park, they cross paths with
Jonah (Gulliver McGrath, who has worked with the likes of Spielberg,
Burton and Scorsese), a loner and outsider who has been mercilessly
bullied throughout school by Jango and his destructive cronies. But
when they were younger Corey and Jonah used to be best friends, almost
inseparable, as they went on adventures together. But something
happened that drove them apart. On this night, Corey reluctantly agrees
to walk Jonah home out of a strong sense of guilt, and is forced to
confront the demons of his past and comes to terms with his betrayal of
that friendship. The journey through the night is filled with
metaphorical monsters and painful revelations. There is also a vaguely
homoerotic nature to the relationship between Corey and Jonah. Boys In
The Trees is the feature film debut for former DJ turned filmmaker
Nicholas Verso, who has worked on numerous television shows like
Conspiracy 365, Nowhere Boys, and has directed a number of well
received short films, including 2014's The Last Time I Saw Richard. His
films often deal with troubled teens and issues of sexuality and
identity, themes that surface again in Boys In The Trees. He has a
unique and deeply personal take on the coming of age genre. Verso gives
the film an air of melancholy and nostalgia and touches of
introspection. It also has a darker tone and gritty aesthetic that is
influenced by the likes of Richard Kelly rather than John Hughes. But
it does tend to meander a little in the middle and loses focus for a
while, and Verso goes in for some heavy handed symbolism. And some of
the dialogue is a little cyptic and obtuse. The film was set in 1997
because Verso believes that that was one of the last times that
teenagers had that sense of innocence and freedom, when they were able
to be alone in the night. This was time before mobile phones, the
internet and social media began to dominate their lives. Verso gives
the film an air of melancholy and nostalgia and touches of
introspection. It also has a darker tone that is influenced by the
likes of Donnie Darko. The film is steeped in nostalgia for the 90s
with lots of cultural references and iconic touchstones, and the action
is even complemented by a great soundtrack of 90s rock that will
resonate with a certain demographic who grew up during that period.
Verso draws nice performances from his young cast. Rising young star
Wallace gives a nuanced and quite mature and insightful performance as
Corey, who hides his own insecurities and doubts beneath a cynical
outlook. Mitzi Ruhlmann (from The Code, etc) is also good as Romany,
the goth girl who is also keen to leave this small town for something
bigger and more exciting, and she has big dreams and shares a similar
outlook to Corey. McGrath brings a vulnerability to his performance as
Jonah, while Holobrow brings some nuance to his performance as the
insecure Jango and makes him more than just a one dimensional bully.
Boys In The Trees is a film of great ambition, and, although not
entirely successful, Verso must get kudos for trying. The film is
certainly stylish with lots of visual flourishes and quirky surreal
touches that set it apart from a lot of other local coming of age
tales. Much of the film takes place at night, and there is some eerie
and atmospheric cinematography from Marden Dean, who shot the evocative
and haunting Fell.
