8
On the Edge of.Groundhog Day?????

............................................................from
Pasto,Colombia...Via: L.A. CA., CALI, COLOMBIA and ORLANDO, FL This Review is dedicated to my student and friend Sebastian
PortillaWho really likes this movie and specifically requested it!As regards EDGE, sorry, but it is pretty much of an impossibility for
me to sit down and write a completely unbiased review. In my case, this
film will always be viewed through the lens of Groundhog Day, one of my
all- time favorite movies, my favorite film to share with my English
students and, most definitely, my #1 Romantic-Comedy of all time! But
despite the fact that I have seen Groundhog Day, from beginning to end,
at least 2 dozen times, this is supposed to be a review of EDGE, so
let's turn our focus there:It is easy to understand why so many IMDb-ers have awarded 9 or 10
stars to this "EDGY" Sci-Fi near classic, I suppose if it hadn't been
for the reason so clearly spelled out above, I, undoubtedly, would have
done the sameStill, EDGE possesses many standalone qualities that have
motivated me to give it a well-deserved 8 Stars! FIRST: Here, Tom
Cruise's character, Cage, is a die-hard desk jockey PR/Marketing
mature-media- pretty-face type, who seems, at least initially, to have
an anaphylactic shock reaction to any and all bellicose activities
encoded in his DNA! I find this an extremely amusing tongue in cheek
poke at himself in some of his earlier Mr. Invincible, Super Macho,
Ethan Hunt and Jack Reacher type roles!Another critical factor working in its favor: EDGE is anything BUT a
"leave your brain at the door" mindless Action/Sci-Fi flick, unlike so
many of your typical Hollywood "Action/Sci-Fi" counterparts! If your
focus wanders, you could be asking yourself, "OOPS! What just
happened!?!?" This film almost constantly challenges you to re-evaluate
your opinions and the relevance of what has transpired on screen! But
don't get me wrong, EDGE has enough mind-numbing action to satisfy even
the most exigent of action movie junkies! At the same time, it also
presents us with some rather inspired and original plot twists. (Don't
worry, No Spoilers AHEAD!) Speaking of originality, perhaps this is the
perfect moment to mention that despite that its driving force idea
seems to be a blatant rip-off of Groundhog Day, at least EDGE manages
to impart a good deal of fresh spin to the concept, so as to give it
quite a life of its own. From a technical standpoint, as is the case with most Hollywood big
budget productions nowadays, Cinematography, sound, sound mixing,
editing, effects, pretty much everything is extremely professionally
done. Screenplay, three people with long names listed, is actually
engrossing and quite engaging. For those of you who usually "PASS" on
this genre, I would venture to say that quite a good number of you
might find putting yourself on EDGE might be more than worth your
while! ENJOY!/DISFRUTELA!Any comments, questions or observations, in English o en Español, are
most welcome!
