5
Watchable, but very Disappointing and Forgettable

When I first saw the trailer for If I Stay back in April, I got chills
and it quickly became one of my top five most anticipated movies of the
summer. From then on, I stayed away from all other trailers and clips
so that I could see the movie knowing as little as possible, to the
point where I'd put the TV spots on mute and run out of the theater
when a trailer came on. Based on the trailer I saw, I honestly expected
something similar to Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, or a
dramatic Inception. However, after having finally seen it this weekend,
I am sad to report that If I Stay is nothing like that at all, and is
instead probably my most disappointing movie of the summer.If I Stay follows Mia, played by Chloe Grace Moretz, an 18 year old
girl who likes classical music and cello, and who's still not quite
over her ex, Adam (Jamie Blackley). Then on a snowy day, her life is
completely turned upside down when her family and she get into a deadly
car crash, sending her into a coma. In this coma, she has an out of
body experience in which she needs to decides either to die and go up
to heaven or live with the physical and emotional repercussions, all
while flashing back to the relationship she and Adam had.The movie is primarily made up of flashbacks to the relationship that
Mia and Adam had, and the chemistry that the two of them share isn't
very strong and can be described as okay at best. Chloe Grace Moretz is
a talented young actress who really gives it her best in this film,
whereas her costar Jamie Blackley ranges from decent to mediocre. The
relationship between their two characters is cute and sort of fun for
the first half of the movie. However, in the second half when their
relationship slowly starts to go downhill, Adam becomes a jerk and is
unlikeable and unreasonable, which made me have a tough time feeling
bad for him when he was an emotional wreck. Also, with Adam and Mia's
relationship, something felt missing. Rather than true love, it felt
like a typical high school relationship where the two people think
they're love, then someday breakup and later realize that they never
actually were in love.Then all the other characters are either annoying or underdeveloped.
Mia's parents are somewhat likable, however, most of their jokes and
dialogue come off as either flat or cringe-worthy. Then there's this
couple who is close friends to Mia's parents, and they are present in
the hospital for most of the movie and in many of the flashbacks. In
one scene they talk about never wanting to have children, but then they
are later seen in another scene with a baby (referred to as their son)
who is then never referenced or seen again afterwards. The one
exception to all this would be Mia's grandfather, played by Stacy
Keach, and he had one scene in particular that I did really like (those
who have seen the movie can probably guess what scene it was). Perhaps
I am just being biased since I do enjoy Keach and his acting, but I do
think he gave a good performance.Now I have some things to say regarding the ending. I'm not going to
outright say any spoilers, but I'm kind of going to imply what happens
in the end. Therefore, if you do not want anything spoiled about If I
Stay, skip this next paragraph.Mia makes her decision to stay or leave based off of a five minute
speech that one character makes to her, and then the movie ties itself
up really nice in a bow and leaves everything real hopeful and bright
for the characters. While I do like happy endings, I felt in this case
a less hopeful ending would have been better suited to really make her
decision difficult. Not Requiem For a Dream level hopeless, but rather
cutting the whipped cream and cherry on top. However, I do have to say
that with the route they chose, the last ten seconds of the film were
perfect. The place where the last shot cut could not have been better.In the end, If I Stay is just another average teen romance movie, and
it's not even all that interesting. The trailer makes the movie seem
like a tear-jerking drama that takes place all in her mind about her
decision to live or die, when in reality, it's a high school love story
consisting of 70% flashbacks that only spends a small portion with her
out of body experience. I REALLY don't want to give this movie anything
below a 6/10 because of how much I had been looking forward to it for
so long, but I have to give it a 5/10. It's even possible that in the
future my score will go even lower. While it is somewhat entertaining,
If I Stay is a rather weak romance movie for teens and is overall very
forgettable.
