6
What did I just watch?

Personally I am more of a DC fan than Marvel, but it seems like
everyone has been pressuring me to watch the second installment of the
Thor movies, and...it was disappointing.Thor 2 is directed by "game of thrones" director Alan Taylor who proved
that he has a future in Hollywood, Alan Taylor is a great director,
Thor 2 looked beautiful and the fight scenes were great. Sadly Alan
Taylor's great directing could not overcome Thor 2's disappointing
story, in my opinion it is too early to make a Thor film that takes
place in Asgard, but it made sense because it seems that the Thor
franchise can not survive without Loki. The film felt very messy as we learn about Malakith, a villain who
barely appears in the film, the viewers just have no connections what
so ever with the MAIN VILLAIN of the movie. Instead the writers focused
on Loki who was amazing in this film, but the countless "is this guy
Loki?" confusion was way too much, the viewer was unable to relate,
first it was Loki against Thor (in the cell), then it was Loki with
Thor (while going to the secret passage) then it was Loki against Thor,
but we find out it was a trick...then Loki "dies" BUT we later find out
he betrayed Thor...that was Way too much "Lokiception". In the film we
see a slight tension between Sif and Jane Foster which I found to be
completely unnecessary because except for the awkward looks they give
each other, nothing really happens between them. The humor in Thor 2 is
outstanding, but it gets repetitive at times. It felt like some points
in this film were just not necessary at all! I understand that the
writers wanted to make a point but the scenes were very briefly
explained (the date in the beginning of the film). Although Chris Hemsworth did a good job as Thor, but it's starting to
get old, I don't get the feeling i get when watching Robert Downey Jr
as Iron Man or Hugh Jackman as the wolverine. But Tom Hiddleston is
brilliant as ever. Overall, Thor: The dark world is an overrated film, where we see messy
writing, mediocre acting (except for Tom Hiddleston) and unnecessary
tension between the characters. Although Thor 2 had some flaws it is
still worth watching Alan Taylor's outstanding directing in the film.
