1
An insult to human intelligence

~~~spoilers in tilde~~~The following is a (paraphrased) conversation between a supporting and
main character in the middle of final battle scene. Mind you, there is
absolutely no lead-up to the revelation that follows. "We need to stop
the bombing plane!" "Let's blow it up!" "We can't. It'll kill everyone
if it's on the ground" "I'll fly it far away from everyone then!" "Okay
but the bomb is on a timer"At this point, some words manifested themselves in my brain. Words like
"forced drama" and "asspull". I turned my palm upright and
apathetically stated, "Seriously?". My head turned to the moviegoers around me, expecting groans or eyes
rolling, but saw naught but zombie-like blank stares. I gave them the
benefit of the doubt and assumed they turned off their brains in
attempt to salvage as much enjoyment as possible out of the $11.50 and
two hours of their life they had lost. But alas coming here and seeing
mostly rave reviews and ratings have proved my faith in humanity to be
misplaced.---Wonder Woman 2017 is (or is supposed to be) a story of a naive but
strong woman who discovers that humanity is not as black-and-white as a
comic book is. She must journey to understand this trope and learn to
use her strength to bring out the best in people. The movie begins with
the titular character in her "naive" phase in a village isolated from a
world in conflict. About 15 minutes into this and the movie has already betrayed its own
narrative. To begin, there is no sense of ease. Not a single joke, not
a playful moment, nothing. It's all character conflict, hints of future
conflict, or expository world building (tell-don't-show instead of
show- don't-tell). This is NOT how you convey naivety. The potential
for character development is ruined within these first 15 minutes. In phase 2, the violence of the outside world stumbles upon paradise.
Except it's not a paradise because we've only ever seen people arguing
with each other. What could have been an exciting "awakening" moment
instead falls flat. Enter male MC. Almost immediately he steals the title with some
innocent and light-hearted moments. The beginning looks even worse in
comparison because now he's the naive one. What follows are poor
attempts at chemistry between the innocent-but-not-really-innocent
Wonder Woman (gadot) and the true star of the show (Pine). Skipping ahead a lot, a ragtag team of misfits is formed who generally
don't get enough screen-time to develop or be explored. One is a guy
who sees ghosts and this point is never mentioned again. In the middle
is the only scene with any emotional weight where gadot charges an
enemy trench ending years of stalemate. As expected of the horrible
script however, the moment overstays its welcome. It moves right into
an attack on a town without any pause to punctuate the significance of
the scene. Skipping ahead again, there's more bad pacing and scenes without
emotional impact. The ending is particularly terrible. ~~~The "big bad"
who had been hyped throughout some scattered scenes is defeated
effortlessly. As referenced in the beginning, Pine is the person who
sacrifices himself in the end for the sake of a dumb plot-point.
Naturally, you can't have a character better than the titular character
surviving the franchise.~~~ A random supporting character is introduced
as the true villain and some CGI magic occurs instead of some visceral
man vs woman combat.Overall, almost everything was bad.The plot was terrible: twists or conflicts happen with little-to-no
buildup.The directing was terrible: scenes are poorly timed and paced.Gadot is terrible. Of the few negative reviews here, most criticize her
horrible uninspired performance, which is true, but then again how
could anyone perform such a bad character? Pine is actually interesting
~~~but is killed unremarkably because he is too interesting. I wonder
if the writers realized this. Why didn't they fix it if they did? ~~~.The action was bad: while I don't really mind obvious CG anymore, there
was a complete absence of visceral "human" fights that DC have had in
the past, like when Bane is savagely brutalizing Batman with his fists
and there's no orchestral accompaniment or CGI to be found. Maybe it
would have looked weird with a lanky gadot beating down or getting beat
by a villain. Then again you could have just got rid of her and gotten
a better woman. In fact just get rid of everyone except Pine while
you're at it.Final rating: 3/10*Note: I felt compelled to rate as a 1/10 to offset the fake reviews
(by shills perhaps? Or maybe Idiocracy is becoming a documentary).
