8
The Horrors of Domesticity

The basic premise is as old as the movies.An abduction leads to a media-circus. Nick Dunne (Ben Affleck) comes home one day to find his wife Amy
(Rosamund Pike) missing. The ensuing search and all the subsequent
events, which shall not be revealed here, draw the viewer closer and
closer into a complex world of everyday suburban reality and everyday
suburban horror.As if it needed to be pointed out, this balance of reality and horror,
or horrendous reality, is the domain of Mr. Fincher. In his clear-cut
no-nonsense style he has fashioned a powerful mystery-thriller that
lands somewhere between Hitchcock, Lynch, Bergman and Chabrol. Although
vastly different directors, they have shared an interest in dissecting
reality and human nature. Profiting from two exceptional lead actors (doubts about Mr. Affleck's
acting abilities will hopefully be dispelled), it is Ms. Pike, who
reveals herself as an immensely versatile and unpredictable force in
this movie. Over more than ten years Ms. Pike has played big parts in
small movies, or small parts in big movies (such as „Pride &
Prejudice", „Wrath of the Titans" or „Jack Reacher"). Under the guise
of Mr. Fincher she excels in every aspect and if any contenders for
awards are to be named so early in the season, hers would be one of the
first names (next to the outstanding cast of Richard Linklaters
„Boyhood") to be written down. Visually stunning as one would expect from Fincher, with an immersive
soundtrack by Trent Reznor & Atticus Ross and an editing rhythm that
cuts like a knife through the tissue of the story and its characters,
„Gone Girl" leaves no doubt about its craft and the deceptive nature of
its source novel by Gillian Flynn. The author adapted her book into a
tightly wound screenplay, that adds fuel to an already burning analysis
of modern marriage and human frailty.The themes are familiar to Fincher, but he assembles them in an
expertly fashion. And we are left wondering, amidst the suspense, about
many of the so called estimable American values of the 20th century,
that have now come crashing down under the weight of an economic,
political and spiritual crisis.
