4
"It doesn't matter what people think. You know what you did."

Spielberg knows what he did, but I have a few thoughts. Let's start
with the title - You know, there's only one "spy" per se, who matters
anyway. But it makes it sound like some thriller-diller, eh?Now Tom Hanks - uh, what's with that incredibly furrowed, knit brow all
through the story. Makeup Oscar time? Did they borrow it from a
Klingon?The woman who plays Donovan's wife? I know she's supposed to be
convincingly all 1950s square - but really, heels and full lipstick all
the time? Smiling at everything? At least they didn't plug in Jessica
Chastain, that would not have been credible opposite Donovan's shlubby
character. A performance as flat as one of those pancakes in the big
American breakfast he never ate.The youth are not at this movie, they're all out to see the latest
vampire/zombie/Tom Cruise dreck. So the boomers out to see an ennobling
patriotic drama have lived through all this, including "duck and cover"
and the Missile Crisis. Do those of us who actually were terrorized and
traumatized by all that really need pedantic little lessons about the
bombs and the sirens, delivered by Donovan's delusional little genius
son? I found it insulting.Of course, all the Russians are scene-chewing geeky monsters, sometimes
in such close-up we can see the beet-bits in their teeth.Gosh, it was cold in that Cold War! So we have to see everyone blowing
and wiping their noses, boogers hanging, in order to get the idea?Exception: Mark Rylance, the only great thing about the movie. I've
been watching Rylance in "Wolf Hall," and it's very impressive how he
can create such a level of charismatic tension by hardly doing anything
at all. He's all stillness, posture, little eye movements and gazes,
all restrained, all coiled in. Amazing.Back to the thriller at hand. So in the big spectacle scene where the
U2 gets shot down, did Spielberg really need to show off, proving "Oh,
I can do 'Gravity,' I can do 'The Walk'" just for bragging cred? And is
it actually historically true that Powers gripped on to edge of his
crumbling cockpit and just failed to hit the destruct button before his
tether broke? (OH! is that a sneaky symbolic allusion to 'aborting' a
mission?)This whole thing could have been done as a 15-minute documentary (not
that I'd like seeing another documentary) rather than puffed up into a
dry and predictable "drama. When we see Hanks' character lying face
down on his bed at home because he's so beat, I suppose if I were him
I'd be concerned to hide my face for having accepted another such
stereotypical heroic individual little man role.Do nasty CIA agents really skip into the air in peevish excitement like
an 11-year old when they get frustrated? (Oh, they probably do.)It might have been more exciting to get into a row with the dopey woman
in the seats behind us who kept aggravating my wife by kneeing and
bumping the back of her seat - but "Would it help?"So the Coen brothers helped write this. I guess Spielberg thought it
might be more tasty to shmear some funky mustard on this baloney
sandwich, but "Would it help?" My fantasy is that the Coens were often
snickering up their sleeves.
