9
Wes Anderson's Best?

I would consider myself a Wes Anderson fan, however in saying that, I
have only seen a handful of his movies. I was very excited for The
Grand Budapest Hotel, because of its excellent cast, the fact it's
directed by Wes Anderson and just by how unique it looked. After
watching The Grand Budapest Hotel, I can confidently say that it's my
new favourite Wes Anderson film, and probably his best.As I was hoping, the story to The Grand Budapest Hotel is very original
and unique, some may even say strange. And as the movie goes on, the
story only gets wilder and wilder. The film is often very hilarious,
with some seriously funny dark humour thrown in there as well.
Characters are extremely well written, with the bond between Gustave
and Zero being the backbone of the whole movie as it's so well written.
The Grand Budapest Hotel features an odd narrative structure that works
very well for the film, again adding to the uniqueness and freshness of
it. I wasn't exactly sure how the story would play out, as I purposely
avoided all promotional materiel so I would know as little as possible
before watching. This was a great benefit to my viewing experience as I
loved everything I saw, and felt as though nothing was spoiled from
watching too many trailers.I haven't been a huge fan of most of Ralph Fiennes' work since his
phenomenal performance in 1993′s "Schindler's List", but this is easily
his best performance since then. He proves he can do comedy just as
well as he can do drama, providing a perfect balance of both. Newcomer
Tony Revolori is excellent as well. I won't get into the whole
supporting cast because there's so many who were all so great, but I
was particularly impressed by Willem Dafoe, Adrien Brody, Harvey
Keitel, Jude Law and Saoirse Ronan.The Grand Budapest Hotel is definitely a Wes Anderson film, down to its
very core. If you know his style, then you known what to expect, as
this movie is full of it. Thankfully though, it's not a case of style
over substance, with a great story to accompany the gorgeous visuals.
The colour palette is beautiful; it's nice to see lot's of bright
colours when so many other films are so dark and dreary. The set design
and costumes are perfect, and there's so much attention to detail
within the sets. The cinematography is phenomenal, and I really like
how the film was presented in different aspect ratios.You really can't go wrong with this film. It's probably Wes Anderson's
best film, it has gorgeous visuals, excellent acting and a wonderful
story. If you're a fan of Wes Anderson's previous work, you cannot miss
this, and even if you're not a fan you should go and see it anyway.
