9
Easily One of the Best Movies I've Seen This Year

I came into ParaNorman with a sense of cautious optimism. I absolutely
adore stop motion animation, and I genuinely fell in love with
Coraline, LAIKA's previous effort, but the trailers for the film didn't
capture my interest in the story in the way I hoped they would and this
film also didn't have the benefit of being helmed by the brilliant
Henry Selick (Nightmare Before Christmas, James and the Giant Peach,
Coraline). That being said, I am extremely happy to report that
ParaNorman absolutely delivers on every level you could hope for. ParaNorman tells a story about a young boy named Norman who has the
unusual ability to see and talk to the dead, an ability which has led
him to be ostracized by the other members of his community, including
his own family. The New England town in which he lives is famous for a
historic witch execution, along with the legend of a curse that the
witch put upon those who sentenced her to death. It turns out that the
legend of the curse is true, and that Norman, with his ability to talk
to the dead, is the only one who can prevent the curse from raising the
dead. Unfortunately, Norman is unable to act fast enough and the
Witch's curse begins to wreak havoc on the town. ParaNorman is a film with many strengths. Stop motion animation is
always a beautiful and fascinating process, and with new technological
advances the filmmakers have been able to bring it to a level of detail
and expression that are simply astounding. While the scope of the story
may be smaller than something like Coraline or Nightmare Before
Christmas, the scale of the stop motion sets for this town are truly
incredible. The film absolutely immerses you in this world that feels
like a living, breathing, place. As beautiful as the animation in Brave
was, ParaNorman is easily the most visually impressive film I have seen
this year. As beautiful as the film is, it never falls into the trap of so many
other animated films by simply being visual spectacle with no narrative
soul. The story of the film is fun, intelligent, and heartfelt, and is
supported by a great cast of characters. The odd kid who is
misunderstood is a common trope in kids' movies, but what makes Norman
stand out is that he's never mopey about it. He is ostracized, bullied,
and rejected, but he's come to a kind of acceptance about the whole
thing. He's certainly not happy about it, but at this point he's not
trying to fit in, he's really just trying to keep his head down and get
through the daily grind. This is part of what makes his relationship
with the other characters in the film work so well. For instance Neil
genuinely accepts Norman for who he is and it's obvious that this
throws Norman for a loop and he doesn't really know how to interact
with someone who "gets him." This is never spoken, but it plays out
naturally through the performances of the characters. As the narrative progresses it takes some really interesting turns, and
at times is genuinely surprising and emotional. Without spoiling
anything, I'll just say that a large part of the narrative revolves
around assumptions and misunderstanding, and it brilliantly uses the
audience's assumptions and expectations about the genre and its
conventions against them. It's also worth mentioning that this is one of the rare films which
decidedly benefits from the addition of 3D. There's some fun play with
perspective, and being able to see the dimension that exists in these
sets adds a lot to the experience. I genuinely loved ParaNorman and it's easily one of my favorite films
this year. It's not a movie for everyone, but if any of the trailers
gave you even a glimmer of interest I would definitely recommend
checking this one out. LAIKA is certainly beginning to make a name for
themselves in the animation scene and I'm really looking forward to
whatever their next project will be. I think I still prefer Coraline
which definitely benefited from the combination of Neil Gaiman's
fantastic story and Henry Selick's experienced hand, but ParaNorman is
a truly fantastic film and it's definitely worth a look. A-
