9
'Cult of Chucky' FrightFest Premiere Review: A Good Guy Fun Ride!'

Back at the start of July I managed to secure tickets to the opening
day of FrightFest 2017. As soon as I heard Cult of Chucky was going to
be having its World Premiere there, I jumped at the chance and paid
money for a day pass even though this was the only movie on Thursday
that I REALLY needed to see. Like hell was I risking the single tickets
not being available and me missing the chance to see Chucky back on the
big screen. The PositiveLike all of the Chucky films, Brad Dourif is an absolute delight as the
voice of our favourite killer doll. I really felt that the events that
transpired in the movie aided in showing how much passion Mr. Dourif
still has for voicing the character and the range he has as a voice
actor. I'll keep my praise in the family and say that I was a huge fan
of Fiona Dourif as the returning character Nica, who has some VERY
interesting character development throughout the movie whilst coming to
terms with her actions in Curse of Chucky and facing Chucky once more.Unlike most sequels that seem to throw continuity out, this movie does
great job at throwing back to the previous entries in the franchise in
subtle, yet fun, ways! (there may even be a cameo or two).One thing I was extremely happy about was the amount of gore and
practical effects used in the movie. There is no noticeable CGI Chucky
like the one in Curse and it looked like the majority of the Chucky
doll scenes were done using animatronics and puppetry.The gore in the movie is on point and not overused to the point of
overkill. I mean, don't get me wrong, there are some pretty brutal kill
scenes, but not gallon upon gallon of blood split and spraying all over
the place.Don Mancini was so passionate about the franchise he built when he was
doing the Q&A and urged the fans in the room to go out and support this
one so that they can continue telling the story we were left with at
the end, although I won't be divulging that information until October.The NegativeMy main gripe with the movie is that it felt lacking in the plot
department. A lot of new concepts were introduced but with little
explanation, although Don did say these would be addressed in a future
installment if this one performs with the fans.Fans of Bride and Seed will be happy to know that Chucky is at his
witty best, but I know that a lot of fans take issue with the mixture
of both humour and horror. Although the effects were great, there were
still one or two set pieces that looked a little off but I can
appreciate that this is a low budget affair when you compare it to
current Hollywood horror movies.It is a solid entry in a franchise that is already six installments
strong and it also manages to breathe new life into what most may think
is a tired concept. I firmly believe both fans of the original Child's
Play series and Bride, Seed, and Curse of Chucky will be very happy at
what is on display in this installment and will be begging for another
one come closing credits.
