5
The longest and most expensive trailer ever made

I have a rather wishy washy relationship with The Hunger Games. I had
read and watched Battle Royale before but I love the idea of people
being forced into a fight to the death by the government. It's
terrifying and so that's why I even read the book in the first place.
Because knowing it takes place in the future, I wanted to see how
Collins would interpret it and how it was marketable to young kids-
hell, I was in grade 9 when I watched Battle Royale, and I remember
throughout that year loaning my bootleg copy to several friends and
before you know it, almost half the school was talking about it. And so
that's why the idea of THG excited me- even though BR is an adult movie
first and foremost, teens can relate to the issues presented, and i can
say without exaggeration that I was not let down, because even though
it's wasn't as good as BR, I was pleased that the intensity and
brutality of BR was not lost with Collins' interpretation. Sure it
isn't the most well written book, but it was so intense I found myself
on a cold autumn afternoon in 2009 at home, on the edge of the couch
and frantically turning each page to see what happened nextAnd then the sequels came, and I was disappointed. CF had so many great
ideas but didn't utilize them properly, and Mockingjay was a mess of
ideas that failed to resemble a story. Skip to a year and a half after
the release of Mockingjay, I was at a midnight screening of the first
movie, and as much as I found it problematic as an adaptation, it at
least was entertaining. A year and a half later, I'm back at the same
IMAX auditorium to see the sequel, and amazingly, I loved it enough to
consider it one of my favourite films of the year. It captured the
intensity the book couldn't. The ideas were there, but a book wasn't
the best way to capture it. Now it's a year later and I'm just back
from a preview showing of Mockingjay Part 1 and wondering why I was
left so cold even though I went in knowing exactly what I was in for.
Gut instinct, maybe? I hopeMockingjay is not going to change your mind about the book if you
didn't like it, but because of my completist ways, I went and saw it
anyway. And the problem was that it was too much like the book- a
scattered collage of entertaining bits with equal amounts of filler. In
fact, this film is beginning to make me wonder if maybe the series only
seems awesome because of the first book's honest storytelling and the
second movie's sheer intensity and electricityThe problem here is that it only makes Collins' seeming inability to
balance out blazing hot action with quiet drama, and a movie-exclusive
problem is that it seems to fail at emotion and drama altogether. The
scenes where a brainwashed Peeta is forced into feeding the districts
pro-Capitol propaganda as a devastated Katniss watches should be
heartbreaking and saddening- problem is they are for the wrong reasons.
They're heartbreaking and devastating because there's so many blown
opportunities and you could almost imagine the writers go, "have them
start crying, that will trick the audience." The same thing happens
when Katniss visits District 8 all armed with a documentary crew and
visits a hospital only for Snow to have soldiers blow it up. I should
be sad and depressed to see this hall ending but the only thing that
depresses me is how horribly executed it is with no emotion I'm not even going to get started on the fact that this really did not
need to be two movies because if anything, I do think there was a way
splitting it into two movies would have improved the story as a whole.
The book's problem is that the first half is too slow and the second
half is too rushed. They could easily trim an hour of fat and being
some stuff in from the second half to make the film more intense. The
book lacks emotional connection the same way this movie does, and so
there's so many opportunities. Problem is, it's too much like The
Deathly Hallows, where part 1 was filled with padding to the point
where the whole thing could easily have been one movieSo what did I like? Well, I loved the storming and bombing of the
hydroelectric dam. I loved the ca few flying in to rescue the hostages.
I loved the final conversation between Snow and Peeta. I loved the
bombing of the forest. I loved the emergency sheltering. These are
enough to warrant the 5/10 I gave it, because those scenes were truly
gripping and engaging. Had these kinds of intense scenes been in the
movie more, maybe, just maybe I'd have walked out with some level of
anticipation for the next partOtherwise there's really no reason to spend hard earned cash to watch a
two hour trailer for the actual payoff. The whole thing feels like a
big, two hour long trailer. It's clear they only did this to make the
audience want to wait for the next part. Oh, I'll be dressing up in my
district outfit and going to see the next movie for sure but not
because I'm excited to because at this point I feel obligated to do so
