4
Who is this movie even for?

The Expendables series was supposed to be bring back the thrills of the
great 80s action films. Nostalgia is the safe go-to for audiences of
today, and Stallone knows this. Most of the man's career has revolved
around him playing the same roles for over 30 years. The trailer came
out and it was extremely promising. Bringing in actors like
Schwarzenegger, Dolph Lundgren, Bruce Willis and what do you know?
Stallone was even directing, a man who had proved himself a competent
action director. Even of recent years, Rambo IV was pretty awesome.
Ironically however, these 80s stars created something as dull and
humourless as today's modern action films. Where was the fun? Where was
the one liners? What should have been a spectacle piece with soul was a
shaky-cam filled ride of nauseating proportions. Sure there were some
small moments of fun, but they were few and far between. So, has the
third iteration in the series any good? Not really.The movie follows The Expendables on a mission to stop a weapon's
trade, they discover an old foe once thought dead (Gibson), takes out
one of their own. Their leader, Barney (Stallone), to keep the rest of
his Expendables brethren safe, goes on a suicide mission with a new
younger team to exact revenge.Here lies the fundamental problem with the film - the actual
Expendables aren't the focus of the movie. There's been an attempt by
the filmmakers to attract a younger audience by bringing in fresh,
younger 'action stars' and of course the PG-13 rating, the series'
first. This could have worked, if they hired ANYBODY who had a star
credit in the past three years. Instead, the audience is subjected to a
bunch of no-name stars running around, spouting annoying banter at one
another. The reason why people come to see these movies are for the
nostalgia of the past films these actors have been in, and that they
are in a film altogether. So when you disband what the audiences came
for and replace them with a bunch of nobodies, you're completely
alienating your existing fan base. What people want to see if Rocky and
The Terminator killing bad guys together, and when you just replace
them with regular mercenaries, it isn't special to the viewers anymore.That's not to say that's the only problem with the film. For this type
of movie, motives of character's aren't entirely clear. Why would
Barney abandon his loyal team ready to fight by his side for a bunch of
random mercenaries? The action is still largely incoherent, with either
way too many cuts during the scene or really poorly executed fight
choreography. The visual effects department looks like it had to take a
pay cut for the actor's, there is better CGI on Agent's of Shield
(every car ride is flat green-screen, one scene with a base jumper just
looks completely unfinished). The editing - dear lord - the editing in
this movie is some of the worse I have seen in a film in a long time.
There are multiple cutaways to things for a minuscule amount of time
that the audience has no idea what it is (a scene ends with a guy who
the audience hasn't picking up a magazine and leaving), or is
completely unintentionally hilarious with how the cut has been
executed. The main example that sticks out is a scene that slowly zooms
in dramatically on Stallone's face for about thirty seconds, as if the
character was about to have a flashback, just to cut straight to the
next scene at a hospital. However, the biggest crime this film commits
is it's waste of talent. Jet Li is one of the top billed actors, and
yet has about 90 seconds of screen time. Wesley Snipes has a fun and
humorous introduction to his character, but then is just relegated to
the background after the first act. Terry Crews is one of the most
charismatic actors in films today and he is COMPLETELY wasted in the
movie.This movie is getting a 4/10 from me, because there are several
elements that save this lazily made film. Antonio Banderas is an
absolute joy to watch, giving a crazy, over the top performance that
would make Nicolas Cage jealous. Mel Gibson, whilst more restrained,
gives his all as the crazy bad guy, and although the majority of the
visual effects are an eyesore, the stunt work in the third act of the
film is quite impressive and even engaging.Skip this one, go watch Guardians at the cinemas again.
