9
a solid building block for the 4th installment

Please Read This Review!!! I've decided to write this review because
there is just way too much negative feedback for this movie that's not
even close to being justified.This 3rd installment, in my opinion, is very well made. This movie
actually answers a lot of questions and the bottom line is "if you
didn't like it - it's probably because you just didn't get it" -
period!!! This movie will make you think (a little) and nowadays people
don't want to think at all. People nowadays want to be entertained
without having to think or appreciate anything - and that's just nuts.From the very beginning, the movie starts building the blocks as to:
what the creeper is, how the creeper thinks, how the creeper works, how
the creeper gets around and many other things. The acting is pretty
good and there are no "usual basic type of heroes". The movie has a very realistic story. If you are what the creeper wants
- then you are what the creeper gets - that's it(very real). There is
very good character development and there are very solid pieces of
information thrown throughout the entire movie done in a very strategic
way. I honestly didn't want to leave to go to the restroom as I knew
that I would miss something very good and important - and I was right.Bottom line when it comes to the types of watchers of this movie. 1)If
you like and appreciate a nicely written horror movie with good acting
and a solid story - then this is a great movie. 2)If you are always
trying to look for every tiny "flaw" in a magician's show or are always
looking to laugh so hard that you fall out of your seat at a comedian's
show without having to do any kind of thinking - then this movie will
not make you happy because you can't appreciate the hard work and
thought process that goes into things(ART).To understand "ART" you have to be "SMART". This movie is "ART". It may
have a somewhat low budget, It may have unknown actors and It may not
have non-stop CGI up the wazoo BUT this movie is "ART". I loved it and
I can't wait for the bluray/DVD release and the 4th installment.
