1
Defiles everything that Superman stands for.... sad... pathetic

Guys... I'll be honest here... This movie does not do justice to
Superman. I mean, for a person who doesn't know anything about Superman
except that he flies around in a blue suit, will find the movie
exceptionally good. But for a person who has ever tried to read
Superman or watched Superman stuff before, this movie is going to be a
disappointment.The movie doesn't portray what Superman stands for. For the last 75
years, Superman has been a pacifist. He JUST DOESN'T KILL...NO MATTER
WHAT.. HE JUST DOESN'T KILL....SPOILER ALERT: 1. The movie shows that the blue suit was given to
Superman by Jor-El. But this hasn't appeared in any version of Superman
so far. In fact, its Martha Kent, who gave the suit to him.2. Clark finds the suit on an abandoned Kryptonian Scout Ship. Now the
point to be noted is... the ice around the ship was found to be over
3000 years old... So the ship must have landed there over 3000 years
ago... While Clark's age is shown to be only 33 years... Does that mean
Jor-El sent a ship to Earth 3000 years ago, with a suit that he wanted
to give as a gift to his son 3000 years later??? 3. Jonathan Kent
didn't die in a tornado... he died of a heart attack in all versions of
Superman ever published...4. The Genetic data of all kryptonians was never a part of Superman's
body cells.. In fact, there were only a handful of survivors which
escaped in the bottled city of Kandor.5. Clark Kent grows up on Earth and spends 33 years of his life
adjusting to his powers... Zod does that in minutes?????? 6. The much
awaited Superman's Rippled Shield of the house of El which was much
advertised... I didn't see in on Superman's suit... I saw it at the
end-credits...7. Superman goes super-sonic??? Blasphemy.... He is the guy who can
travel faster than the speed of light... and they only manage to make
him go super-sonic??? 8. Superman never lets innocent civilians get
hurt... NEVER... He will give up his own life to protect them... Yet in
the entire fight sequence he never tries to take the fight away from
Metropolis. Instead he keeps on ramming Zod into buildings and brings
down half the city...killing God know how many...9. Helicopter sequence... Superman saves the guy who fell from the
Helicopter which has gone out of control... But he lets the pilot and
remaining crew perish and crash to the ground.10. Superman coughs up in smoke... as shown in the movie itself... when
he was a kid... he saved a bus from drowning... and then saved Pete
Ross too... He is able to hold his breath under water... In the oil-
rig scene... he stays under water when the oil rig explodes... When he
takes flight for the first time he goes in the orbit in the outer
space... all of that... and amidst a little smoke... he stars coughing
like he has contracted Tuberculosis??? 11. Superman collapses and
"BLEEDS" from the mouth when he enters Zod's ship... Dude..
seriously... Kryptonite makes him weak... and he becomes like an
ordinary human in presence of a Red Sun like Krypton had... But never
does he BLEED...12. And the best one of all of them... Zod is trying to kill a few
people with his heat vision... Superman has Zod in a vice and he is
holding Zod's head... perfectly capable of directing Zod's heat vision
wherever he pleases... or he could have covered up Zod's eyes with his
hand... But instead... He chose to break his neck... Wow Superman...
way to stand by everything to symbolized for the last 75 years...Believe me when I say this... the movie was good.. but it just wasn't
Superman... it was some random guy in a blue suit who flies around
killing people.
