6
Commercial Considerations Let It Down

Prohibition in rural Virginia means bootleggers and moonshiners can
make a lot of money producing liqueur . The Bondurant brothers are
amongst the most successful moonshiners in the state . Their industry
is under threat from Special Deputy Charley Rakes who will do anything
to bring down the Bondurant brothers I wouldn't say I enjoyed director John Hillcoat's previous work since
they're a bit too painfully gloomy , downbeat and nihilistic to be
enjoyed but I did respect his films . Here he has made his most
commercial and accessible film featuring the tried and tested genre of
the gangster film which is always popular with the public . Based upon
the book The Wettest County In The World by Matt Bondurant . Hillcoat
has made a film with commercial appeal but has probably made it a bit
too commercial for the American box office for it to be a truly hard
hitting and memorable film that the director is known for The battle lines are drawn far too black and white . The Bondurants are
merely following the business of America which is business and the fact
that they're filling a market that due to the stupidity of politicians
is an illegal market is neither here nor there because they are
essentially real life American Robin Hoods risking , life , limb and
liberty to keep ordinary Americans in home made apple brandy . Every
businessman needs an enemy and this enemy is the American federal
government who have employed Special Deputy Charley Rakes who isn't
really interested in upholding the law but does the job because it
involves torture and murder . Try and think of the Sheriff of
Nottingham fused with a torturer from a Latin American fascist
dictatorship played in a manner by Guy Pearce that suggests he thinks
he's still appearing in pantomime at Preston Guild Hall and you've got
the idea where this might be going wrong You are left with the impression that Hillcoat is pulling out all the
stops to give this commercial appeal . Not only are the good guys a bit
too good , the bad guys a bit too bad leaving the audience in no doubt
who to cheer for but is also trying to make a film trying to appeal to
both teenagers and a female audience . We get a charming - it says here
- coming of age story about Jack Bondurant who has fallen in love with
a girl from the Amish church and we get a subplot about a romance
between Forrest Bondurant and Maggie Beauford . In other words the
story loses focus and is trying to do too much This is a pity because LAWLESS is an impressive film in parts . The
disgracefully underrated Tom Hardy just about the most impressive actor
in the world in the last couple of years is good in the role of Forrest
and does manage to flesh out his role as just being a misunderstood
good guy . The cinematography is beautiful and Hillcoat does manage to
paint a convincing picture of both time and place . That said you are
still left with the impression Hillcoat is trying a bit too hard to
make the film be a massive box office success and one wishes he'd stuck
to his guns and made a movie involving a lot more dubious morality and
nihilism that the director had done in GHOSTS OF THE CIVIL DEAD , THE
PROPOSITION and THE ROAD
