4
This has about as much to do with zombies as the long drink has

I walked into this movie not expecting much, but a little something.
The intro was pretty nicely done and I expected it to not be as dire
and gory as say The Walking Dead or Dawn of the Dead. I also didn't
mind the idea that R serves as the narrator even though as a character
he can't talk initially. Then the humans come into play. The group R
first encounters is pretty much your
every-slasher-movie-college-road-trip. There are no signs of any kind
of training to fight against zombies or act as a group (yes, like
playing Left4Dead with 12yos). I was willing to accept the fact that R
would fall for Julie, that's the premise of the movie after all. Then
however it starts going downhill.... rapidly. R is housing (as of now I
will start counting face palm in brackets, so this is 1) in an
abandoned airplane. He is opening the door (2) and keeps Julie there.
His love interest in her is somewhat developed but still hard to
believe. He slowly learns to speak again, yet when he and Julie
encounter other Zombies M completely out of nothing can talk at the
same level as R can (3). What follows is the typical drama of them
getting to know each other better and her leaving him when he tells her
he killed her boyfriend. On a side not here. Julie is maybe the worst
female character I have seen in a movie for years. Now I'm a guy, but
every feminist must have been going through the roof seeing her. R is
constantly saying he will protect her, she cannot take care of herself
and instead of properly mourning over her dead boyfriend she befriends
R, but then again tries to run away from him and what not. Horrible
character. Anyhow, R is going to meet her in the human complex (by this
time all of the regular zombies have magically stopped eating
humans/brains (4)). R easily gets into the human complex and meets with
Julie (yeah, build a concrete wall that is 20m high, but conveniently
oversee a gap (5) and don't smell the dead guy in the rotting clothes
(6)). A group of bonies attacks the human complex looking for R and
Julie, what motivates them is however completely unclear, same as what
led them there (7). R and Julie escape from them and eventually leap
into a pool, with R serving as a kind of cover for Julie. They get back
up and R gets shot in the chest. Now, I don't know what you'd do if the
water around you is turning red with the blood of a loved one - Julie
however starts screaming happily and enthusiastically that R can bleed
(8). Then the zombies befriend the humans, come back to live and blah
blah blah (9 ad infinitum).The movie as a whole has no real suspense. There is little to no
violence involved either. R is an interesting character that however
gets struck by plot holes, Julie is anything but a character, nothing
makes her sympathetic. The other characters are also pretty one
dimensional.Well, that's all I can say. Don't waste your money going to the movies
to see this. It is pretty much this year's Prometheus - great trailer,
shitty movie. I was very disappointed
