8
Not bad at all.

I just saw the movie and my expectations were met. It wasn't
over-hyped, it wasn't over done as far as marketing is concerned. It
probably could have used a little more, but none the less... It turned
out to be a fun film to watch.I am pretty familiar with the original tale and legend of the real 47
Ronin and despite historical inaccuracies, which even most stories
today are going to have to create a more dramatic and exciting story
like old tall tales. One comes to mind as Frank Miller's Graphic Novel
300 which ended up being film, it was widely inaccurate compared to the
true events that occurred, but it made the 300 Spartans look even more
awesome and exciting to watch. Most stories have embellishment in them.
Otherwise they would be kind of dull. The real world usually tends to
be just that.Making this film isn't just about telling a cool story, it is to
immortalize those warrior's that stood fast and strong to fight for
what they believed in and at the same time make them look good doing
it.The visuals were great, the costume design was great, the filmography
was amazing, capturing the essence of Japan was awesome. Everything
down to the colors, the landscape, trees, buildings and everything. Not
everyone will like this movie, but I for one would recommend it to
anyone that enjoys good movie about Samurai. This movie I thought had a
good story. It wasn't great or Academy Award worthy but it was good. It
wasn't all non stop action. The director did a good job of building up
without making parts drag and become dull.I honestly thought while watching it, it felt like watching a live
action anime. Not to mention, I have an obsession with Samurai so I was
sold when I saw the first trailer for the film.Overall, I thought the acting was well done, I think Keanu Reeves did a
good job. His character may not have been part of the true story, but
for the film I thought it introduced something good for the film. First
being an outcast and then being welcomed into the fold later in the
film.I also liked Hiroyuki Sanada's acting job in this. I think he did an
amazing job as well as the entire supporting cast. They all acted as if
they truly belonged there. No one ever felt out of place.If you want historical accurate view on the story, I suggest you buy a
book or do some hardcore research into the subject. If you just want to
watch a good entertaining movie full of mysticism, and Samurai action.
Then this is a good way to go. This is just my opinion, take it as you
like. Watch it before you criticize it. That is all I have to say!
