8
A subtle mixture of romance,SF and horror

"I'm half undiscovered science, a bunch of confusing biochemistry and
some crazy hormones." "Spring" isn't really a horror film. It's a rather mythological love
story with a "not so bad" twist. A story about how true love can
overcome obstacles and how that makes you choose irreversible options.
And this interspersed with sometimes lurid and bizarre scenes. There
are several moments in this film, which also proceeds painfully slow
(the only flaw I could think of), where you are wondering what the hell
is actually going on. And when everything is explained in detail, you
frown and instantly you think "What the f*ck was that ?". I admit that
the whole metabolic explanation went over my head the first time, but
after a while it became really clear and I realized it was dead simple.
Ultimately it was a film that took me by surprise, despite its long
playing time, and unexpectedly continued to fascinate me.The beginning of this remarkable film is I could say brilliant. A
scarce setting. Young Evan (Lou Taylor Pucci) bedside of his dying
mother. A joke. A blank stare. A final sigh and then ... finito. The
day of the funeral ends with an out of control bar fight. To avoid
problems with the local police, Evan decides out-of-the-blue to book a
plane ticket and travels to distant Italy. Once there, he ends up in
the company of two British loudmouths whose main interests are :
pouring as much as possible alcohol in their throat, using gore
language and constantly trying to seduce an Italian girl. The day they
scram and leave Evan behind, he's determined to get acquainted with the
beautiful Louise (Nadia Hilker) with whom he briefly made eye contact,
somewhere at a village square. He offers his services at some farm in
order to pay for his stay and slowly the two grow closer together. What
emerges is a not so obvious relationship. The mysterious and impulsive
Louise isn't exactly making it easy for Evan and soon the viewer is
fully aware that she's hiding a terrible secret.What is it that makes this film so unique? Several things as I look at
it afterwards. The casual and spontaneous way these two people
interact, converse and let love flourish between each other. Not with
contrived and forced dialogues. It seemed as if their love game unfolds
naturally before your eyes and you witness how two charismatic
individuals whirl around each other in a flirting way. You wouldn't say
that Evan has charisma. He looks more like a meaningless,
unqualified,miserable fellow who has no specific goal in his life and
also has a limited wardrobe. Yet he came across as profound and
intellectual during philosophical conversations with Louise. And
certainly the speed at which he could grasp the whole explanation,
proves there's a sparkle of some intelligence. Conversely Louise is a
chunk of charisma. A mysterious character who Evan can't get hold of
and whose reasoning and reactions raises questions. The reason why she
is confusing at times and stands aloof, becomes clearer as soon as the
terrible secret is revealed. Superb performances without a doubt.Also cinematically it's a bit different. The camera movements and
positions are sometimes surprising. The bird's-eye view sometimes
delivers beautiful images such as the boat trip. These splendor images
are regularly interrupted by short shots of all kinds of flora and
fauna. Bizarre and sometimes incomprehensible. But all this is
ultimately connected with the big secret. The most successful scene is
when Louise explains the whole mystery to Evan. Although she doesn't
want to explain it initially, she changes her mind and she does it
while Evan is on its way through the narrow streets of the Italian
village. And while stumbling over the cobbles he listens to the eerie
tale. I would have preferred that she'd tell this complicated story
calmly at a table because the pivoting camera and flashy long sequence
demanded all my attention. And this ensured that the final message
didn't directly hit me and sounded pretty hazy. The horror clips are
scarce, sometimes unclear and sometimes with pretty ugly CGI. Is this
done deliberately? Were the resources limited? I have no idea. But
ultimately it all fits perfectly with the rest.Maybe there's a moment when you're wondering where exactly the romance
is hiding ? Maybe you dropped off because it's pretty surreal and it
all looks strange. And yet you should do the effort to sit through the
movie, because the final denouement is pure romance. This is the
epitome of true love. Maybe I raved about this film, but I've never
seen the concepts live, love, death,pregnancy and rebirth flow into
each other in such a subtle way. A simplistic love story with a quirky
twist which eventually ends in a way you hoped it would end. A
beautiful, unique film that briefly will resonate to some.More reviews here : http://opinion-as-a-moviefreak.blogspot.be
