7
Not an average buddy cop type of film, but nothing too special

7/10I had heard about this movie back before the main cast was attached and
once I heard Marky Mark and Denzel were on board, I had to see it as
soon as it came out. Lucky enough, my local theater had it 4 hours
earlier than most so I caught an 8 p.m. showing with a heavily packed
crowd who I laughed along with much more than I thought I would, but
more about that later.The movie had a little bit of The Departed in it in terms of plot and
characters, and had little hints of comedic buddy cop films like Rush
Hour. The plot itself was pretty well thought out with a few minor lazy
elements but overall it made for an entertaining and very quick 109
minutes. Despite having somewhat predictable twists and turns, the way
they play out in terms of result/consequence keep you guessing if only
at least for a little bit, and it's those minor sequences of suspense
or confusion that kept the movie interesting for me.In terms of acting, of course Mark and Denzel bring it on and make for
a believable pair of righteous men on a track they can't quite figure
out. The introduction of so many different crews of people after our
two main protagonists reminded me of Midnight Run. To the some of you
who remember that film, if you liked that, I can tell you that many of
it's elements are brought to surface in 2 Guns.One thing to be noted is definitely the very pleasantly surprising
amount of genuinely funny content throughout the movie. There are very
frequent scenes of dialog that are written ever so smoothly, and along
with the perfect delivery of our two seasoned veterans, they make for
very realistic dialogs and conversations throughout. Overall, the film was very well written with very immersing dialog, had
great acting across the board, but fell somewhat flat with seemingly
predictable twists and turns, and some scenes where suspending your
disbelief is just too hard. But hey, it was great for what it was
trying to be: A fun, entertaining, lightly suspenseful ride!
