3
Had potential, but a total dud

This movie had potential to be bigger than the rather 'bleak' 2005
version. I wasn't overly impressed with the younger cast but thought
maybe they would take a different aspect on the film. I was also keen
on how Dr. Doom would be portrayed and how he would influence the film
as a villain. I couldn't be more wrong. -There was limited character back-story on the Fan 4 -There was no
middle just a five minute climax at the end that was hardly gripping
-The cringe-worthy quotes towards the end of the film were just
punishing to watch -Dr. Doom looks like a Droid and goes completely
insane over a minor issue and the movie doesn't quite explain why -Dr.
Doom is also meant to be one of the most O.P characters in the comics
but yet he seems to drop down to the levels of the Fan 4 in the final
battle which previously you saw him destroy anything in his path
previously. -Whats the go with Tim Nelson being in this movie seriously
can they stop regurgitating actors from previously failed ' marvel '
movies and maybe have a fresh start for some characters, especially for
someone with a mediocre role as he had -Not really a huge issue but
very disappointingly no after credits scenes which are signature to
marvel based moves ( even though it is owned by FOX ) The only reason I have given it a 3 is the visual effects, only for one
character though. The Thing looked insane compared to the 2005 version,
only problem was due to the short length of the movie he got limited
time and whipped out some really punishing quotes towards the end of
the movie. Also I did like Franklin Storm in this film, he was a
breathe of fresh air...but again wasn't perfected pulling out some
pretty cheesy lines.So overall it was a total dud, no background characterisation on the
characters, if there was it was limited and to go along with the short
running time, it was hard to watch. Dialogue was just really, really
average and I spent a lot of time watching the movie with my hands on
my head in agony.
