10
The Best Comedy of the Summer

One of my favorite things to do is go into a movie completely blind.
Not watch a trailer, look at a poster, or even the cast list. It's
incredibly difficult to do in today's age, especially because of how
much I enjoy watching trailers, but when the chance comes along to see
a movie with no prior knowledge, I take it. The Big Sick is one of those rare movies that presents itself as 3
genres, in this case Drama, Comedy, and Romance, and it services each
of those genres equally. So well that you have to mention all 3 if
you're talking about the movie. It's not just a Rom-Com or a Rom- Dram,
it's most certainly a Rom-Com-Dram. I haven't seen a film so
effortlessly balance the 3 genres. This is all while seemingly reinvent
the formula for a romantic comedy to beautifully fresh results. The Big
Sick uses witty humor, charming leads, and socially important topics to
give us the best film of the summer thus far.A romance is only as good as its leads and their chemistry. Luckily,
Kumail Nanjiani and Zoe Kazan grace the screen with a refreshingly
awkward and charming presence. Being that I haven't really seen either
of them in anything else, their relationship felt miraculously
original. The Big Sick is based on Nanjiani's actual life, but this
felt like a comedy unrestricted by real-life accounts while also
honoring a serious subject matter that has its place. However, the
two's chemistry isn't all this film has, its entire ensemble is
something to behold. Ray Romano, Holly Hunter, Anupam Kher, Adeel
Akhtar, Zenobia Shroff, and the various comedians do a wonderful job of
rounding out the fantastic cast.It doesn't fall back into genre clichés or tropes, doesn't fall back
into an overly physical comedy (like most comedies do now), and it most
certainly doesn't go the direction you think it's going to go. The Big
Sick benefits from having a diverse cast and story and an impeccably
funny but also poignant script. Heck, it also doesn't hurt that it
takes place and was filmed in my hometown of Chicago. But the important
thing is, this film restores my faith (once again) in original romantic
comedies. Go see it.+Diverse+Original+Funny & heartwarming+Balances its 3 genres impressively10/10
