8
...and the Academy Award for Best Actor goes to....Daniel Day Lewis!

Directed by Steven Spielberg. Starring Daniel Day Lewis, Tommy Lee
Jones and Sally Field. Written by Tony Kusher and Doris Kearns Goodwin."I am the president of the United States of America, clothed in immense
power! You will procure me those votes!"'As the Civil War continues to rage, America's president struggles with
continuing carnage on the battlefield and as he fights with many inside
his own cabinet on the decision to emancipate the slaves.'Steven Spielberg has done it again! It seems like the older he gets,
the better his films are! I was very satisfied with his efforts,
particularly the set designs and tone. It was a joy to watch. I was not
impressed with the cinematography efforts. It was well done but nothing
stood out for me. For instance, Scorsese seems to bring a new camera
angle/shot/position in every one of his films. I was expecting more.The acting was this film's strongest aspect. Daniel Day Lewis brings an
historic performance to the screen except I didn't see him in this
picture. I saw Abraham Lincoln. He was so driven into the character, at
times it was scary. Lewis' vision of Lincoln is self confident, calm
and patient. It was in my favorite scene that his patience finally wore
thin on his colleagues about the negativity in the 13th amendment. The
mannerisms were spot on. His efforts match my personal favored work of
his in 'My Left Foot'. His best contribution to the picture was
consistency. Throughout, he never faltered. His accent never trailed
off and his actions were always precise. He is fully deserving of the
Academy Award for Best Actor. Tommy Lee Jones and Sally Field also gave
great performances. They brought character and charisma to the picture.
I particularly enjoyed the Daniel Day Lewis and Sally Field
combination. They compliment each other very well. My only criticism of
the cast is that there were too many actors. At times, the characters
were defined with a tag on the bottom of the screen. I don't enjoy
being told in letters who the characters are. I want the character to
show me in action who they are.The Score is very well done in this movie. The team of Spielberg and
Williams never fails. The music brings just as much emotion to the
screen as the actors do. It helps bring the vision and atmosphere to
life. This film isn't what I would call a 'masterpiece' but it was a joy to
watch. A must see and one of the best films of 2012.
