6
Lightweight whale

Ron Howard's Moby Dick would be a funny thing indeed - like Michael
Bay's Crime and Punishment. Howard has landed a few solid genre films
(Ransom, Apollo 13...), but he is essentially a vanilla director making
vanilla movies - a bad match for Melville's metaphysical masterpiece.Thankfully, the connection with Moby Dick is a lot feebler; In the
Heart of the Sea is an adaptation of Nathaniel Philbrick's excellent
novel, based on a true event - the sinking of the ship Essex by a whale
- which inspired Melville's classic.The movie commits three major narrative blunders.First, the usual, overwrought framing device, with survivor Nickerson
(Gleeson) recounting the disaster and the crew's following ordeal to
Melville (Whishaw). Not only the meeting never happened (Nickerson
wrote down his memoirs for a minor writer, who never used them); the
movie keeps cutting to Nickerson and Melville, dissipating any tension
and momentum the survivors' struggle may gather. Imagine a version of
Cast Away where, every ten minutes on the island, we cut to a scene of
Tom Hanks interviewed by a journalist after returning home.Second problem: characters. The most interesting element of Philbrick's
novel is how Captain Pollard (here played by Benjamin Walker), decent
but irresolute, is the more sympathetic character, while first mate
Chase (Chris Hemsworth), harsh but determined, is the more charismatic. As is typical of blockbusters, the movie chooses a single protagonist
(Chase/Hemsworth) and whitewashes him to an absurd extent. He was
supposed to become Captain, but was robbed of his rank! (He wasn't -
Pollard was the Essex' previous first mate). Chase was popular among
the crew! (He wasn't, many feared and disliked him). And so on. Even
Walker's supercilious Pollard eventually bows to Thor's superiority. A
pity, because Chase would have been FAR more intriguing with his darker
edges.Third problem: Howard's penchant for melodrama rears its ugly head.
Director and scriptwriters felt the need to spice up this compelling
story with inventions (like the whale chasing the crew for weeks after
the attack, or a one-harmed sailor warning them about the beast), while
omitting details with the flavor of real life (a sailor setting an
island on fire out of sheer idiocy, a hunting party aborted after a
terrible roar in a jaguar-infested jungle) and crucial mistakes:
Pollard wanted to sail to the Society Islands after the disaster, which
would probably have saved many lives, but was irresolute enough to be
persuaded by his officers to head to South America instead.The result is watchable, but lightweight - the one adjective one would
NEVER use for the literary classic the movie so portentously tries to
evoke.5,5/10
