5
Just not that funny

I love TV show Broad City and was looking forward to this because two
of the creatives behind that show paired up to give us Rough Night. The
generic title (a switch from Move that Body which was much more
suitable) should have warned me. Rough Night is forgettable and not
really that funny. The movie starts out in 2006 where a group of 4 friends get drunk at
Halloween, win a beer pong competition and vow to stay friends forever.
Fast forward 10 years and the group is reuniting for Jess's (Scarlett
Johansson, bland, bland, bland, comedy is NOT her forte) bachelorette
weekend at a fancy house in Miami. They party, snort coke, are joined
with Jess's Australian friend Pippa (Kate McKinnon in a role that MUST
have been written for Rebel Wilson. Surely?). Her friends decide to get
Jess a stripper and here is when things go wrong: high on coke they
accidentally end up killing the stripper and things quickly spiral out
of control as they first try to do the responsible thing of calling the
police and then move on to hiding the body. There was minor protests before the film being released about the movie
making a punchline of killing sex workers but the film could have
overcome this and he gruesome premise if not for a few things. First of
all the women lack friendship chemistry. I don't believe any of these
women were ever friends even if a big part of it is that they are
supposed to have drifted apart. Second the casting is all awful.
Scarlett is not a comedy actress and neither is Zoe Kravitz and it
shows. Without being backed up by her hilariously crafted Broad City
alter ego Ilana Glazer comes across as simply annoying. Kate McKinnon
and Jillian Bell are probably the best with their characters but
neither one is given much to do. McKinnon just leans hard into her
accent and Bell is saddled with a "loser desperate friend who can't
take a hint". The third thing is that the movie never quite finds it's
tone. It struggles between "woke" dialogue for characters who are
actually just mean and instead of simply leaning into the fact that
these women are awful and allowing them to get even more absurdly awful
it's way too protective of the characters and keeps trying to redeem
them by making them "nice" people. It's both incredibly boring and
keeps the movie from really flying. Still, Rough Night isn't a total write off. There are enough funny
lines and a subplot (involving Jess's fiancé who the movie allows to
get into REALLY ridiculous shenanigans) to be watchable. Just wish that
the script would have let the ladies turn loose too.
