8
Way better then I expected, it's twilight with better actors

so this weekend I went out of my way to catch a movie that interested
me a lot from the trailers and the concept. Beautiful Creatures I know
at first glance it seems like a wanna be twilight but I actually found
it a lot better. I had to drive to another city to a theater I've never
been to and see it all by myself in an empty theater and I didn't care.
It was that good lol .Both Twilight and Beautiful Creatures are in the
same genre of "Young Adult" stories but both couldn't be more
different. From a film level, this tops the twilight films. The actors are way better. The two leads in the films were charming and
great in their roles. They really made them seem like real people then
cardboard cut outs of people (like twilight) so when the two leads fall
in love... it's built honestly and naturally instead of it being
unrealistic. Alice Englert was beyond impressive in this role. She
natural, frail and yet you don't know what lies in her character. It's
great seeing the object of affection of the main character being down
to earth and yet gorgeous. Alden Ehrenreich as the lead was pretty good, I wasn't sure how I was
going to like his character because at first he seemed too silly but
slowly the film makers made him seem real... someone who was willing to
fight for what he knew was right... which was Lena. Not just that but
the supporting characters were well rounded solid actors who really
gave this film a sense of being a real story instead of a cheesy teen
movie. Jeremy Irons is amazing as always. I love how the film flowed
through out, it's not an original story but I loved the rich history of
the story and the world that was in.My issues with the film are small... mainly i wish they film makers
would be have let this film breathe a bit and take it's time. They a
great story and interesting history... i wanted to see them take the
time to actually go deeper into the world and let us enjoy it for bit.
At times, the film seemed to rushed at points or when something really
cool or interesting happens... the film makers don't take the chance to
really use it the best it can. Some of the CGI was kind of cheesy and
towards the end the story uses a plot element that if they would have
gone with completely then I would have hated this film but they didn't
and gave me what I wanted for the characters. At that point, getting to really enjoy the story and the characters...
you can't help but to cheer them on. There's a lot of moments where i
thought i knew where the film was going to go and it changed it on me.
Personally I don't think i would have done some of those choices as a
writer but it worked for this story. It really kept me interested. I
didn't think I was going to like this film as much as I did. There was
a lot that worked in it's favor and it's sad that not a lot of people
turned out to go see it.It's way better then the twilight films and it actually has good
acting. I think with a lot bit more time and money... this film would
have been even better, truth be told there are some moments that are on
that edge of being too cheesy, but despite that... I completely loved
this film and enjoyed it for what it was. A good little story about
supernatural powers, good vs evil, love and the power of love. I know
there's a lot of people that will think this film will be as bad as
twilight and it isn't... I actually thought it was nice charming film.
