8
Hello Best Picture frontrunner. Consider me satisfied.

There is something appropriately mechanical about The Imitation Game.
It has a theatrical rhythm and attention to detail that ticks like a
clock. That's not to say that it's necessarily overly dry and hard to
connect to, this biopic of the extraordinary and tragic mathematician
and inventor of the digital computer, Alan Turing, played by Benedict
Cumberbatch, is emotionally engaging and utterly endearing. With a
slick exquisite script and an eclectic ensemble strong enough to
deliver, it's an accessible film that although may feel familiar, is
thoroughly refreshing, bringing laughter, tears and thrills. It will
undeniably be a huge contender at the big awards this season, perhaps
going all the way.Director Morten Tyldum's film follows Turing's journey to break the
Enigma Code, the form in which the Germans communicated during WWII to
conduct surprise attacks. He attempts it by building the first
computer, a passion project of his that was frequently criticized for
devoting so much Government time and money. He deals with a social
ineptitude while also accepting his own homosexuality, which lead to
unforgivable persecution and depression that caused Turing to take his
own life. The film focuses on his life achievements rather than his
demise, though it does explore that part of his life, if not illustrate
it as much as it could have done.It's easy to root for Turing, even if his arrogance and standoffishness
repel the other characters. Benedict Cumberbatch is a real crowd
pleaser here. I've only seen him in short supporting roles such as last
year's August: Osage County and 12 Years A Slave and I'm certainly
quite impressed, if not quite as astounded. There's a very rehearsed
quality about his performance, similar to Anne Hathaway's Oscar winning
turn in Les Miserables. Every stutter and nuance feels perfectly placed
rather than organic. But this isn't necessarily a turn off, it fits the
tone of the film. He could go all the way to the Oscar but it depends
on buzz and the competition.The highlight of the film is the writing by Graham Moore, adapted from
Andrew Hodges novel 'Alan Turing: The Enigma.' It's not groundbreaking,
but it has the right ingredients and the perfect recipe. Even if
somehow it's the only film's nomination, it's still a frontrunner for
the win in Adapted Screenplay. This will be a film known for 'ticking
boxes,' but it does it in a way that all films should. It's economical
without ever feeling like it's rushing or only scratching the surface.
It constantly pummels the characters with adversity, presenting
heart-wrenching moral dilemmas, particularly for Keira Knightley's Joan
Clarke. It turns something complicated and bleak quite lighthearted,
especially with the casual approach to war outside of moments of
justified despair.Knightley will certainly get awards attention for her fine supporting
role as Turing's counterpart. Her role may not be as meaty, lacking the
highs and lows Cumberbatch has, but she makes the most of her relative
sparing use, becoming the heart of the film. Thanks to her, their
relationship is completely believable, given that Turing is a man who
struggles with connecting to people, and the way she manages the
choices her character is set upon is dealt with deft conviction.
Charles Dance, Mark Strong and especially Matthew Goode are commanding
side presences who bolster the film's charm. The titular 'imitation
game' is essentially the Replicant test from Blade Runner, something
Turing has practiced on himself. However, all the characters are human
here, if with a confidence you only find in the movies.Instead of a linear structure, the film chooses flashbacks to flesh out
the full story of Turing. It does seem a little extraneous to go back
to school with him, but fortunately the focus of their objectives and
the performances of the young actors make them worthwhile, as well as
showing the origin of something that changed the world as we know it.
The scale is further expanded with newsreel footage and scenes of the
world at war, even if the special effects are relatively primitive
compared to what can be achieved these days though that doesn't hold
the film back as such. It's very easy to get suckered into films that
convince you that you're watching one man change the world and The
Imitation Game achieves that effortlessly.Although it's dense in character and plot, The Imitation Game flashes
more on the surface than it has to offer beneath. Kinetic energy in the
editing brings an instant gratification, especially in the edge of your
seat sequences. There are liberties with the tone for such a somber
event and protagonist that most likely doesn't reflect the honest
emotions involved, but obviously it's easier to digest for audience. I
was unsure at first, but then it had me under its spell. This also may
be Alexandre Desplat's best bet at finally winning an Oscar. It adds to
that whimsical cinematic tone, almost reminiscent on his work on Harry
Potter sans the magic. It will certainly be warmly embraced in the
mainstream. The film is poignant, but not powerful. Entertaining, but
not enlightening.I'm content calling this the Best Picture frontrunner until further
notice. The film feels like a combination of Argo, with the secrets and
the camaraderie of the unit, and The King's Speech, with its
Britishness and charming partnerships. It depends whether the Academy
fall for the ambition of Christopher Nolan's Interstellar or the
Chariots of Fire + The Bridge on the River Kwai formula of Angelina
Jolie's Unbroken. Either way, The Imitation Game will belong amongst
the most deserving winners, but the test of time remains to be seen.
It's not like it'll be alone in that group. Nevertheless, with Queen
Elizabeth II's pardon for Turing last year, there's never been a better
time to educate the masses on his legacy that we use everyday.8/10edit: guess it isn't. Oh well. Boyhood and Birdman are better anyway.
