6
"Sleep By Day...."

Ben Affleck's new movie could best be described as "sprawling". In both
directing and writing the screenplay (based on a novel by Dennis
Lehane), Affleck has aimed for a "Godfather" style gangster epic and
missed: not missed by a country mile, but missed nonetheless.Morally bankrupted by his experiences in the trenches, Joe Coughlin
(Affleck) returns to Boston to pick and choose which social rules he
wants to follow. Not sociopathic per se, as he has a strong personal
code of conduct, but Coughlin turns to robbery walking a delicate path
between the warring mob factions of the Irish community, led by Albert
White (the excellent Robert Glenister from TV's "Hustle"), and the
Italian community, led by Maso Pescatore (Remo Girone). Trying to keep
him out of jail is his father ("Harry Potter"'s Brendan Gleeson) who –
usefully – is the Deputy Police Chief. Life gets complicated when he
falls in love with White's moll, Emma Gould (Sienna Miller). The scene
is set for a drama stretching from Boston to the hot and steamy
Everglades over a period of the next twenty years.Although a watchable popcorn film, the choppy episodic nature of the
movie is hugely frustrating, with no compelling story arc to glue all
of the disparate parts together. The (often very violent) action scenes
are very well done and exciting but as a viewer you don't feel invested
in a 'journey' from the beginning of the film to the (unsatisfactory)
ending. In my experience it's never a good sign when the writer
considers it necessary to add a voice-over to the soundtrack, and here
Affleck mutters truisms about his thoughts and motives that irritate
more than illuminate.The sheer volume of players in the piece (there are about three film's
worth in here) and the resulting minimal screen time given to each
allows no time for character development. Unfortunately the result is
that you really care very little about whether people live or die and
big plot developments land as rather an "oh" than an "OH!".Affleck puts in a great turn as the autistic central character whose
condition results in a cold, calculating demeanor and a complete lack
of emotion reflecting on his face. Oh, hang on… no, wait a minute…
sorry… I've got the wrong film…. I'm thinking about "The Accountant". I
don't know whether he filmed these films in parallel. I generally enjoy
Ben Affleck's work (he was excellent in "The Town") but for 95% of this
film his part could have been completed by a burly extra with an
Affleck mask on. In terms of acting range, his facial muscles barely
get to a "2" on the scale. Given the double problem that he is barely
credible as the "young man" returning mentally wounded from the
trenches, then in my opinion he would have been better to have focused
on the writing and directing and found a lead of the likes of an Andrew
Garfield to fill Coughlin's shoes.That's not to say there is not some good acting present in their all
but brief supporting roles. Elle Fanning ("Trumbo", "Maleficent") in
particular shines as the Southern belle Loretta Figgis: a religious
zealot driving her police chief father (Chris Cooper, "The Bourne
Identity") to distraction. Cooper also delivers a star turn as the
moral but pragmatic law-man.Sienna Miller ("Foxcatcher") delivers a passable Cork accent and does
her best to develop some believable chemistry with the rock-like
Affleck. Zoe Saldana ("Star Trek") is equally effective as a Cuban
humanitarian.In summary, it's sprawlingly watchable… but overall a disappointment,
with Affleck over-reaching. One day we surely will get a gangster film
the likes of another "Godfather", "Goodfellas" or "Untouchables".
Although this has its moments, unfortunately it's more towards the
"Public Enemies" end of the genre spectrum.(For the graphical version of this review please visit
bob-the-movie-man.com. Thanks.)
