10
This is a complete myth! The fun part is: What if it was true?

This film has greatly polarized critics for its use of controversial
concepts. I am a scientist and of course this movie gives me mixed
feelings about its science. But I'm sure about one thing, that this is
fiction. I am able to watch a fiction movie, am I not?Some people review this film negatively for its scientific value,
ignoring the fact that this isn't a documentary. What are these guys
comparing this film against? There is no comparison against real-world
science here. If somebody makes a film about black holes, I expect it
to be faithful to the latest research about black holes. If somebody
makes a film about the Sun, I expect it to be faithful to what we know
about the Sun. In contrast, a film about aliens can stretch our
suspension of disbelief a lot more, because we know no real aliens to
compare it about. And my my, how wide a range of alien species has been
spawned by the film industry in all its years! The main concept in this
film is equally flexible because it has been proved a myth years ago.
Everybody knows that, director/writer Besson knows that. These negative
reviewers miss the entertainment value of this film because of
something they were expecting (harmony to actual science) that was
never there since the film's inception.So yes, some other people review this film for its entertainment value,
because we want to enjoy this "What if this myth was true" scenario.
And we are truly entertained. I loved how Scarlett Johansson developed
her character very well even when there was inherently not much to
begin with: an innocent girl with not further background than dating
some guy for a week and living in a shared apartment. Scarlett's
charisma, weakness, strength, and acting spill all over the place, even
during the most flat scenes of the film, even during the most
VFX-packed scenes of the film. Morgan Freeman is... well, Morgan
Freeman. Fantastic actor except for the fact that he's been typecast
into the wise guy role for like, 20 years. I like the ethnic diversity
in such a small cast. Not that they are trying to showcase it anyway,
but it's a nice touch.The action pack is very good, the mafia pack is entertaining, and the
renditions of Inception, Léon: The Professional, and 2001: A Space
Odyssey are all cherished. Once again, the central myth is developed in
a very fun way. I believe this film has risked a lot in its
development, but for us who want to be entertained and have our
imaginations opened, this film delivers very vividly.
