10
Nightcrawler  is  an  extraordinary  thriller

The term "psychopath" is frequently used to describe murderers and
other dangerous criminals, but in fact, it denotes an emotional
disorder which limits or deletes the feelings for other people. Despite
the stigmata entailed by the word, there are millions of perfectly
functional psychopaths having normal lives, because their lack of
compassion, remorse or affection doesn't automatically make them
murderers. In fact, many businessmen and politicians are probably
psychopaths whose rise is due to the fact that they never stopped to
think in other people. The main character from Nightcrawler is one of
those psychopaths. The screenplay and direction from this film are
brilliant, and they would be enough reasons to make it worthy of an
enthusiastic recommendation, but the main pro from Nightcrawler is Jake
Gyllenhaal's monumental performance, which perfectly allows us to see
an intelligent and organized psychopath quickly advancing in an
unethical but legal (most of the time) business which is designed for
people with null empathy for other human beings. Gyllenhaal's
performance is truly magnificent, and he deserves all kinds of
acclamation for it. Besides of that, Nightcrawler offers us a
fascinating look into real "nightcrawling", and reveals the factors
which promote it, starting by the fierce competition between TV
channels and the obsession for the "ratings". But screenwriter Dan
Gilroy (who was also the director) doesn't limit himself to seek
corporative villains, but he also humanizes the struggle to have an
audience in the shape of the character Nina, brilliantly played by Rene
Russo. In conclusion, Nightcrawler is an extraordinary thriller with an
excellent screenplay, perfect direction and great performances (besides
of Gyllenhaal and Russo, I would also like to mention the perfect works
from Riz Ahmed and the great Bill Paxton). I hope Nightcrawler doesn't
end up being a "hidden gem", because it truly deserves to be
appreciated and enjoyed... even though it leaves us uncomfortable and
paranoid once we leave the cinema.
