1
Why, Tom? WHY?!

This is a god awful concoction of s*** stew. Lauren (Witherspoon) is
presented as a 30 something frumpy, self conscious idiot who's
introduction is spent lying about her life to an ex she runs into and
sighing over her loneliness. After her friend hooks her up with an
online dating profile, she sees Tuck's (Hardy) picture, and decides she
is going to give it a shot. She meets Tuck, they immediately engage in
back and forth watered down humour and then suddenly, due to poor
editing, the date ends without any sign of how long it was. She then
goes to rent a DVD.. (who does that in 2012?) where she meets FDR
(Pine), who tries to obnoxiously hit on her. In the span of a few
hours, she is hit on by both Hardy and Pine, and develops wit and
confidence, and actually shoots one of them down. This is coming from a
chick who hasn't been able to talk to men in years. All it took was for
her to experience a wardrobe change, and miraculously we never see
awkward, frumpy Lauren again. Instead, enters the sexy irresistible
Lauren we always knew was under that frump! The rest of the movie, we
see Pine and Hardy competing for her affection and the ultimate answer:
which man does she fall in love with?!There is an unlikely friendship between Pine and Hardy; federal agents
who consider each other family, yet have no problem sabotaging one
another for a girl. Neither of them have parents yet we are constantly
reminded that this is more of an embarrassing problem for "sensitive"
Hardy than Pine. Why? NO ONE KNOWS. There are a lot of plot holes and hints at what emotional direction the
film wants you to take, but without resolution. When they first meet,
Hardy's character relies more on his honesty and genuine kindness to
win over Lauren, yet Pine basically tricks her into liking him after
her rejection. The film, clearly steers us in the direction of
favouring Tuck, yet Lauren chooses FDR in the end. WHY does Lauren pick
the man who deceived his way into her heart, over the guy she was
naturally falling for? WTF.Never mind this being an "action" movie, these men don't have time for
action! They are too busy falling in love! Too busy calculating their
next chess move against each other by spending their time spying on
her. Any woman with an ounce of self respect would be completely
mortified after finding out her home was invaded and tapped with
surveillance. Yet, this wasn't even questioned. Like people have
mentioned, the moral of the story is, the American ass-hole wins the
girl, while the British gentlemen gets his own left overs, his ex wife.Through out the entire film, I felt embarrassed for Hardy. So much
talent, charisma, sexiness... all gone to waste in this ridiculous
film, although he actually pulled off what he could with a terribly
written script and terrible co-stars. This type of movie, I would
expect from Witherspoon and Pine, but Hardy... at the peak of his
career? Why did he do this? Out of pity? I just don't understand. I am left with confusion and frustration. I will let this one pass Tom,
but if you ever do this to me again... I just don't know if I could
excuse it.
