4
Terribly disappointing

I knew this movie was bad from reviews, but I went to see it anyways
because I like Reeves and hoped for some good entertainment. Well, the
movie happened to be really... bad.First of all, movie starts stupidly with a narrative of Reeves raised
as a child from tengo-demons yet a minute later you are told he is
so... gentle. In a few minutes they tell you the daughter of the clan
leader and he are deep in love and this is character development the
movie is based on. I do not mind if they put a white guy as the lead
and tainting the real legend with some love story if executed well. But
because of dull, stupid, clichéd dialog and bad acting the movie is
predictable, mechanic, unconvincing and damn straight stupid. It is an
insult to the original story of the 47 ronin. It is a movie telling to
you "I am a legendary movie because I am telling you so". They added
fantasy fairy tale twist to the original story. This could work if the
ronins were trying to reach the enemy castle fighting waves of enemies
and assassins, falling in traps, having heroic deaths ...but actually
ALL the fights in the movie besides the final battle are short, dull
and irrelevant to story line. In fact the trailer contains all the good
moments. And no, there is no cool tattooed guy to fight with. There is
no real demon monk fight as shown in the trailer. By the way, Buddhist
tengu demons training killers to protect their "beliefs"? I mean,
really? Next - the BIG guy in the movie everyone expected to serve as a
minor boss and have a great eye candy duel with, gone in a second blown
by a bomb. The enemy clan leader - running and fighting like a pussy in
the end. The final boss fight happened with the dragon-witch...and our
hero used his magical power cheat-cheesy move to kill the dragon, the
same magical power he has from the start of the story but never used
before? All those fights from the trailer are so short and unimportant
you just know they put it there as fillers. Probably for this reason
you see no more than ten ronins in most scenes. One of the guys
specifically says they are 47 because you would never believe they are
more than 15 till the final scene. Where nobody is seen to use the
magical swords they were given by the demons in any special way.200 ml dollars spent on this movie? Hollywood product placement idiocy.
They should rather have made this movie a psychological drama with an
epic real played battle in the end rather than waste cash on computer
animations.
