9
Violence at its most chilling and effective!

I have seen some crazy violent films from cannibal holocaust to a
Serbian film but no other film that comes to mind executes violence as
un settling as this. For me I mean this in a positive way for others
the violence could be the very thing to turn them off to it and
possibly ruin the movie. May this be a forewarning for some and a
recommendation for those who might be interested.To start with the usual things to look at as far as acting and writing
I would say this film does an excellent job. The acting from all is
believable and extremely convincing. The writing is good with some
humor and plenty of good dialogue. What the film masters completely is
tension. Jeremy has truly shown his talent as a director with this one.
The tension and situations that spawn violence are all very believable
and realistic only adding to the tension and overall tone. Speaking of
tone they set it incredibly well with one of the first acts of violence
which will stick with me for a long long time. Funny thing about this movie is that it's considered a thriller. What I
mean by funny is that as a thriller (which it really is) it is more
chilling and horrifying than most if not all the other horror movies
I've seen recently. There are jump scares but they're done properly.
This isn't a scary due to monsters and ghouls though, it's scary
because of how realistic and effective the violence is to where it
really sticks with you.As you probably already know this is a film best going in knowing
little to nothing to get the full experience, personally I went in
knowing more than I should have, however, it didn't matter. I was on
the edge of my seat with sweaty palms due to how tense and
unpredictable it is. There is a lot to talk about with this film but a
lot of it cant be discussed without spoilers so all I can say is see it
yourself. If you can't handle violence then I am strongly telling you
to avoid this film. On the other hand this is among the best films I've
seen this year no doubt. As a display of well executed violence and
tension this film will definitely make a name for itself. I hope this
is useful thanks for reading and I hope you enjoy the movie.
