7
Entertaining (despite a couple of strange casting choices)

Although it is entertaining, there is one main problem with "Professor
Marston and the Wonder Women": the casting of William Moulton Marston
himself. Marston was tubby, looked old for his age and was born in
Massachusetts; Luke Evans is in relatively good shape, looks exactly
his age (37-38 when this was filmed, I think) and was born in
Pontypool. To add to the difficulties, although the film covers at
least a seventeen year period, Evans looks almost exactly the same
throughout: excepting a very faint greying of the temples, no effort
has been made to age him. His acting, though, is competent if not
outstanding.Anyway, the plot: the film follows Marston - inventor of a lie detector
and of super-heroine Wonder Woman - as he and his Isle of Man-born wife
and collaborator Elizabeth meet Olive Byrne, who at first is merely
their assistant as they perfect the lie detector, but eventually
becomes lover to both of them. The three set up home together and have
a number of children. Marston, considering a world ruled by women would
be more peaceful, invents Wonder Woman (with Elizabeth and Olive
contributing) who becomes tremendously popular. But complaints follow
about the many bondage and spanking scenes in the Amazing Amazon's
adventures, and meanwhile their suburban neighbours are becoming
suspicious as to the true nature of the trio's relationship.Olive is played by Bella Heathcote, who nicely portrays her flowering
from shy ingenue to confident mother. But the stand-out performance is
from Rebecca Hall as Elizabeth. She *does* sound a bit like Katharine
Hepburn at times, but that just adds to her feisty portrayal of a witty
woman whose academic talents were, according to the film, at least the
equal of Marston's. A notable bum note, acting-wise, is struck by J J
Feild, playing a Frenchman with an accent straight out of the BBC's
1980s sitcom "'allo 'allo"... unless he is *supposed* to be obviously
fake? (In which case, the script should have made it clear.)Ultimately I found this entertaining: the 1920s-40s period detail is
evocative, the three-way love affair touching and as a comic book fan I
found the story interesting. But I wonder whether the film will appeal
enough to those who do not have an interest in either the lie detector
or Wonder Woman. (Oh, and one point of accuracy: the film says Wonder
Woman's powers were stripped after Marston's death in 1947. They may
have been reduced, but they certainly were not 'stripped', as anyone
who read the 1950s stories in which she routinely redirected errant
missiles and repelled startlingly regular alien invasions, will
attest.)
