4
Too dumb to be scary

To be fair, the movie is scary (at least if you watch it in a theater)
for about one hour, not because of the story, but because of its
typical jump scares: the music, the camera movement, the light, and
everything else prepares you for something horrible to happen, but it
does not happen when you expect it; a couple of seconds later BAM! Even
though I don't like jump scares in the movies (for the same reason I
don't like them in real life), they can at least scare you. The other
supposedly scary parts, like throwing furniture around or making loud
and non-sense noises are not scary, but rather dumb and boring.After one hour, the movie becomes dumb and dumber. I believe the most
ridiculous scene is the one that Ed communicates with the Bill's spirit
through Janet and tries to talk him out of harassing the family: they
first introduce each other; then Ed asks the spirit very nicely to
leave the poor family alone; the Bill's spirit argues that this is his
home and they should go; Ed replies that Bill is dead, so technically
speaking he cannot have a house, etc. In my opinion, knowing who the
demon is and what it seeks is bad enough to ruin a horror movie, but
bringing the demon into the negotiating table and getting to know him
through a face-to-face meeting is beyond my imagination. This
ridiculous scene ends with Ed pointing a cross at the Bill's spirit to
repel it from Janet's body. I'm really wondering that if a cross is
powerful enough to get rid of the evil, does it really have to be
pointed at the evil to work? After this scene, nothing makes any sense any more. We just have to
wait for the nights to come, because that's when the bad things happen.
But we don't really know what it is that the "demonic presence" of the
house wants. If it wants to get rid of the family, it can kill them all
quite easily, as it seems to be very powerful: it can throw the
furniture around, destroy the walls, control all the objects, teleport
people and stick them into the walls or the ceilings. What are the
powers and the limits of such demon? In one scene, we see it repelled
by a cross; in another scene, it puts on quite a show by rotating
several crosses. If the demon is after Ed and Lorraine, why does it
devise a plan to make them leave the house? Why don't the family move
out from this place? It's not like other haunted house movies when
nobody believes the possessed person; in this movie, the paranormal
events occur right before everybody's eyes. As I said, there is no
logic in this movie at all.Furthermore, I found most of the "smart" scenes of the movie quite
funny as well: the way Ed discovered the actual demon of the house by
playing two records simultaneously; or the way Lorraine found out the
demon's name in her dream, and the way she just needed to say the
demon's name to send it back to hell, and the part that Ed talked to
Bill's spirit in the first place. Finally, I really enjoyed the fact that Ed and Lorraine keep souvenirs
of the "cases" they solve.
