8
Boston Strong

Man's inhumanity to man is something none of us will ever understand.
This week, America is reeling from the worst mass shooting in it's
recent history, topping only the last record setting mass shooting just
one year ago. All seems hopeless to those who only see the worst in
humanity in times like these. But in tragedy's wake, typically, heroes
are born. First responders, police officers and yes, the victims
themselves. Stronger is a film about such people. Stronger is the film
of the moment and a film we desperately need at this moment.Jake Gyllenhaal plays Jeff Bauman, the famous man who lost both of his
legs in the horrific Boston Marathon Bombing of 2013. He miraculously
survives, despite his legs, and instantly becomes the symbol of the
"Boston Strong" movement. Throughout, Bauman deals with becoming famous
and living a newly disabled life, all the while stuck with the
excruciating memory of the moment his legs were blown up in the
bombing. It doesn't take long for a devastating case of PTSD to kick
in. Despondent towards his family and friends, Bauman slips into
alcoholism, laziness and carelessness which results in him getting his
girlfriend pregnant. Not only does he endure an unrelenting pain, but
he inflicts it on everyone that is near him. But after meeting his
first responder Carlos, Bauman is finally reminded of how important he
truly means to everyone around him. Hero or not, legless or not, he
gave hope to all of those who lost hope in the face of terrorism and
evil.Stronger itself provides the same amount of hope to it's viewers, as
well as capturing a grueling, painful account of rehabilitation.
Gyllenahaal, despite being an abled human being, knocks it out of the
park as the disabled Jeff Bauman. Tatiana Maslany also gives a stirring
performance as the emotionally spent Erin. David Gordon Green gives a
seasoned directing expert's approach to the tragedy of the Boston
Bombing and the true story of Jeff Bauman. To those with a heavy heart
following Las Vegas, make it an effort to see Stronger wherever you
can.
