8
There are some laughs in here for everyone (unless you can't handle potty humor … that's what this is full of!)

Yes!!! I knew (My Hollywood Boyfriend) Jason Bateman wouldn't let me
down — he and the rest of the cast of Horrible Bosses 2 showed us how
to properly put out a funny sequel. After a disappointing Dumb and
Dumber To, this movie was a welcome surprise that needs to be on your
list when it's your turn to pick. If you are looking at the line-up for
the weekend and just want something everyone will enjoy, check out
Horrible Bosses 2. It's worth the box office price with a side of
popcorn and a coke!Horrible Bosses 2 was exactly what I was hoping for — a fun, great,
laugh out loud movie to step away from reality a bit and hang out with
some of our favorite guys. For those of us that like adding movie
one-liners to our repertoire, — Bateman, Sudeikis and Day are happy to
oblige. There were so many funny moments from the best characters in
Horrible Bosses plus the welcome addition of Chris Pine and Christopher
Waltz.The movie didn't try to remake Horrible Bosses. It didn't try to force
us into a "thou shall think this is funny" jokes. You don't need to see
Horrible Bosses to understand or enjoy the sequel. It seemed to just be
a fun movie to make. When you can feel genuine chemistry on the screen
it plays out for the audience. Simply put, it's just good comedy with a
well written script acted by a group of folks who really seem to enjoy
each other. Will it someday be on the AFI Top 100 list? No. Is it
something you'll want to see again? Absolutely. Will we add it to our
purchased list when released to DVD? Oh yes! It's one of those movies
that is good to put on when you have someone visiting or just want a
night away from drama (on screen or in life!)I'm not usually one to comment on the soundtrack — but I must say every
song seemed to come straight from my playlist! Who doesn't want to
enjoy a bit of Katy Perry "Roar" with some Macklemore & Ryan Lewis
"Can't Hold Us"! Fantastic! Are they still making movie soundtrack CD's
anymore?!?! Because I'm in!On a personal note — I also enjoyed the "American Manufacturing" and
"American Dream" basis for the script. Being a huge of American
Manufacturing, the story was a welcome (and funny) look at the
challenges of "Making it in America". One of my favorite lines that I
think will get a chuckle out of manufacturing fans — "The American
Dream is built in China". Hilarious.Bottom line, there are some laughs in here for everyone (unless you
can't handle potty humor … that's what this is full of!) Take break
from the holiday season upon us and check out my boyfriend Jason…ahh… I
mean the movie Horrible Bosses 2 ;)
