8
The Origin of Dracula

In 1442, the Prince Vlad, the Impaler (Luke Evans) rules the
Transylvania after serving the Turkish Sultan as a soldier since he was
a child. Vlad is happily married with beloved wife Mirena (Sarah Gadon)
and their son, Ingeras (Art Parkinson), is their pride and joy. When
Vlad and his soldiers find a Turkish helmet in the river, he goes with
two men to a cave in the Broke Tooth Mountain expecting to find Turkish
scouts. However they stumble with a deadly creature (Charles Dance)
that kills the two men, but Vlad succeeds to escape alive from the
cave. He learns that the creature is a vampire.On the next day, a Turkish group of soldiers come to the Castle Dracula
to collect the taxes but the emissary tells to Vlad that the Turkish
Sultan Mehmed (Dominic Cooper) is demanding one thousand boys to be
trained for the Turkish army. Vlad unsuccessfully tries to negotiate
with Mehmed and when the soldiers come back again to take his son, Vlad
kills all of them. Then he goes to Broke Tooth Mountain and meets the
vampire. He explains that he needs his power to defeat his enemies;
otherwise his people will be slaughtered by the Turkish army. The
vampire offers his blood to Vlad but explains what could happen. Vlad
would temporarily have his power for three days and if he resists to
the thirsty of blood, he would turn back to his human condition. But if
he does not resist, he would turn into a vampire forever. Vlad accepts
the offer and defeats the Turkish soldiers, but soon he understands the
price he has to pay to acquire his power. "Dracula Untold" is an underrated action movie with the story of the
origin of Dracula. This movie has a dramatic and full of action story,
disclosed through great screenplay, special effects and music score.
Luke Evans is perfect in the role of a prince capable of an ultimate
sacrifice to save his beloved family and people. It is funny to see the
comment that a vampire action movie does not have historical accuracy.
My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Drácula: A História Nunca Contada" ("Dracula: The
Untold Story")
