4
Sigh...

This didn't do a thing for me. Half way through it I just found myself
not caring what happen to these insipid people who didn't know the
difference between a party and a therapy session. To me a party is a
happy place, with laughter, dancing. No death films, or deep talks
about the death of loved ones. It was more like a wake. I can stay home
with my stuff and be happy instead of being in a room full of people
who were weird. Even those they called friends didn't seem to have much
of a likable personality.Now let me say this...if my ex invite me to anything he's throwing in
the old domestic dwelling we called home, after I haven't heard or seen
him in two years I wouldn't go. Period. Will knows his ex-wife well
enough to know something is off with her which means something is off
in general.So of course, no one wants to believe the man in the room who knows ll
really well except for three people who are just weird in general and
don't fit in. They wouldn't have come if it wasn't for the fact they
all loved his ex-wife, who none had heard from in two years.Now as for the Black woman he brought with him and I'm telling you as a
Black woman, if my man suggested we go party with his ex I would have
said hell no especially if in the entire time we were dating he's never
introduced me to not one person at the party before the party. I need
to know at least one other person to feel comfortable about walking
into the unknown. The unknown being a woman he loved very much once
into a home he lived happily in with this woman until they lost a
child. Also, if I see my man going through something in general I would
have not allowed him to go through it alone and side with these people
I didn't know.When he was upset and went the bathroom, I would have been there with
him to make sure he was okay and tell him I was ready to go. By the
times this character gets to that point, he thinks he's just going
through things because of his son's death. So they badly wrote that
character's reaction in the beginning because cultural upbringing
matters. I figure it wasn't written with a Black woman in mind but they
wanted diversity.One of the things I found most irritating is these cult people wanted
to die why they felt the need to take others with them. They should
have explained their reasoning and a bit far fetched that all of them
would be in that same area of town in a large city.The only plus is the two leads were alive and their relationship
stronger for it. They both know they loved each other enough to kill
for the other to protect them.
