6
Full of endless circular logic and irony

Director James Ponsoldt's The Circle depicts the story of a
not-so-distant future, or perhaps an alternative present, in which one
company dominates digital media, data gathering, and surveillance
services. Based upon the four-year-old novel by author Dave Eggers,
you'll notice some stark similarities between this motion picture
narrative and the smash hit TV series Black Mirror. The biggest
difference between the two is that The Circle is fast-faced and poorly
written whereas Black Mirror is a slow-burning but well-written
anthology series. In addition to the similarities between the
aforementioned, there are certainly elements of The Truman Show in this
movie as well. With a powerhouse cast, brilliant composer (Danny
Elfman), and excellent editing, The Circle appears to have what a
blockbuster needs; however, the hollow characters, poor character
development, fractured subplots, and overall diegesis hold the film
back from reaching the impact that it could have had. Having taken a
digital media and privacy class in graduate school, and published a few
articles, this is a film that I was looking forward to in order to
analyze how the social commentary or commentary on the human condition
regarding reasonable expectations of privacy and big data were
integrated into the plot. Sadly, the screenplay was not strong or
developed significantly enough to provide big data and privacy
discussions.Mae Holland (Emma Watson) hates her job at the water company, so she is
incredibly excited when her friend Annie (Karen Gillan) lands Mae an
interview at The Circle, the world's most powerful technology and
social media company. Mae's fear of unfulfilled potential impresses the
recruiters at The Circle and she lands the opportunity of a lifetime.
After Mae puts herself into harm's way but rescued, thanks to The
Circle's newest surveillance and data gathering system, she is
encouraged by the company founder Eamon Bailey (Tom Hanks) to take a
more active role in technology development by participating in an
experiment that puts Mae's life on display for the world (in the vein
of The Truman Show) to see. Once Mae turns on that camera, she has more
"friends" than she ever imagined and becomes an instant online
celebrity. Unfortunately, this decision will affect those closest to
Mae and the negative ramifications will reach far beyond her inner
circle and begin to impact humanity at large. Sometimes, people just
don't want to be found or be "social."For all The Circle has going for it, the weak screenplay keeps it from
being the blockbuster that it so desperately wants to be. A great movie
typically begins with solid writing, and that is what's missing here.
After five minutes (or so it seems) of opening title logos, perhaps
that is indirect evidence that there were just too many hands in the
pot, each trying to take the movie's narrative in a different
direction. Much like Frozen plays off like two different movies crudely
sewn together, The Circle appears to be one movie for the first two
acts, but takes an unexpected and unfulfilling turn in the third. A
couple of conspicuous unanswered questions come after Mae meets TrueYou
designer and founder Ty (John Boyega). He designed the platform that
launched The Circle. At one point he asks Mae to meet him in a secret
tunnel (where all the servers are stored) and tells her that "it's
worse than I thought." Great opportunity to introduce intrigue,
suspense, and more. The problem is that the audience is never told what
Ty finds or what happens with what he found. You can remove that whole
subplot and the movie remains the same. There are other subplots that
are nicely introduced, but never carried out as well. Any or all of
them can be removed and the film proceeds the same. Not good. If you
can remove several subplots or unfulfilled turning points and the
film's diegesis remain largely untouched, then you have poor writing.
The third act in and of itself leaves audiences with a hurried ending
that does little to provide closure to the narrative; however, it does
support the film's circular logic and irony. Hardly satisfying.In terms of the allegory here, The Circle is a Google-like company with
Apple's technology. Eamon Bailey is a Steve Jobs type innovator with
characteristics of Mark Zuckerberg and Google's Eric Schmidt.
Thankfully, The Circle does not represent any one company, but rather
combines all the most notable innovations and technological
achievements of Google, Apple, Facebook, Instagram, and more into one
globally dominating company. Antitrust issues are introduced early on,
but again, that's never fully developed. The movie highlights many
issues faced by private citizens, governments, and digital data driven
companies today; therefore, it sets the foundation for a movie that
could have been thought-provoking, but the writing hinders that
ability. The irony in the movie is for every digital answer to
streamlining services or bolstering conveniences, a little privacy is
eroded each time. Pretty soon, if one shares enough information, the
idea of privacy is extinct. Privacy was central to the plot, but it
just wasn't handled in the most effective way. Concepts such as "off
the grid," self-proclaimed "celebrity," and "calls to action" are
displayed and discussed in the film, connecting this augmented reality
to real-world issues each of us encounter or think about. One
particularly interesting theme in the movie is deep friendship.
Unfortunately, this was not fully fleshed as is the case with most of
the movie; but still, it does get touched upon.If you were hoping for another film like the brilliant Social Network,
then you will undoubtedly be disappointed. Films such as The Circle
should be memorable, but unfortunately this one is very much
forgettable. Coincidentally, the movie itself is as hollow as the plot
and characters.Written by R.L. TerryEdited by J.M. Wead
