5
Amusing, but not really funny.

'ABSOLUTELY ANYTHING': Two and a Half Stars (Out of Five)A British sci-fi comedy which reunites all of the living Monty Python
members, for the first time since 1983's 'MONTY PYTHON'S THE MEANING OF
LIFE'. It was directed by Monty Python actor Terry Jones (who's also
directed or co-directed the other Monty Python movies) and it was
written by Jones and Gavin Scott. The film stars Simon Pegg, as an
average human guy that's chosen at random, by a galactic council of
aliens, to be given the powers to do absolutely anything he wants. The
powers given are a test, by the aliens, to decide whether or not Earth
should be destroyed, or if it's inhabitants should be allowed into the
galactic council or not. The film is also notable for being Robin
Williams' last film role (as the voice of a dog). The movie also
costars Kate Beckinsale, Sanjeev Bhaskar, Rob Riggle, Eddie Izzard, and
the additional voices of Michael Palin, Terry Jones, Terry Gilliam,
John Cleese and Eric Idle (the Monty Python cast). It's received mostly
negative reviews from critics, and it only received a very limited
indie theatrical run in theaters. I found it to be pretty poorly
executed, which is a shame considering all of the talent involved. A group of four aliens, which call themselves the 'galactic council',
find a space probe containing information about Earth (and the human
race). They use this information to debate whether they should destroy
Earth, or allow humans into their elite council. According to the
council's rules they must choose an earthling at random, who will be
given powers to do whatever they want (as a test), and if they use the
powers for good than humanity will be saved. They randomly choose a
lonely secondary school teacher, named Neil Clarke (Pegg), for their
test. He of course knows nothing about how to deal with his sudden
gift, and he puts the entire planet in jeopardy. The movie is amusing, but it's not really funny. It tries to be
somewhat emotional, and insightful at times, but it fails at these
elements as well. Pegg gives it his all though, in the lead, but the
material just doesn't work at all. It's a good concept for a silly
sci-fi comedy, but it's just a little too silly and not thought through
enough (in my opinion).Watch an episode of our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK'
at:https://vimeo.com/236806254
