8
Achingly tender romance about how love is a part of the human condition.

It's an inevitability that Carol will face categorisation as an LGBT
film, but that's not the limits of how it should be considered. It's
simply a heartfelt and deeply human love story where the principle
couple confronts insurmountable odds. In Carol's case, these obstacles
are the prejudices of the time and culture they live in. The film
frames this discrimination in a tangible and legal way, as the titular
Carol is accused of a morally indecent lifestyle by her ex-husband in
order to win custody of their daughter. The film isn't interested in
being a courtroom drama though, instead focusing on the blossoming
relationship between Rooney Mara's Therese and Cate Blanchett's Carol. Todd Haynes is known for his heightened style that evokes the melodrama
of Douglas Sirk, for instance. His 2002 film Far From Heaven feels
plucked from the cinema of the 1950s. However, Carol is a film that
feels plucked from the New York streets of the 1950s as the aesthetic
here is surprisingly naturalistic. It doesn't quite breach a
documentary-esque style with Edward Lachman's understated and
pleasantly grainy cinematography, but it all comes organically and
authentically with the elegant fashion of production and costume design
and the atmosphere that its cold Christmas setting provides. It's a
very restrained film – as there are only two particularly intimate
scenes – but the film carries an air of sexual and romantic tension
throughout. As Carol, Cate Blanchett challenges her polar opposite and equally
excellent work with Haynes as a Bob Dylan incarnation in I'm Not There
here. By nature of the film's structure, the first half is in the
perspective of Therese and the second focuses on the perspective of
Carol. There's an interesting inaccessibility about Blanchett in the
first half that draws you into Therese's infatuation. Mara, one of the
most promising actresses of this decade since her small memorable part
in The Social Network, uses her own reserved detachness – something
she's been frequently criticised for – to her own advantage. To watch
someone like Therese open up after being so repressed is thoroughly
cathartic. However, Blanchett whips the film from under her feet in the second
half. She litters the first half of the film with nuanced hints and
clues to her past desires, also communicating so much with very little.
She's elusive, but Mara is a key source of intrigue at that point due
to the honesty in her performance and unexpected dry wit. Once Carol is
struggling to deal with her own internal conflicts, Blanchett is on
fire and burns the house down with her ultimate rebuttal of the
accusations against her. Kyle Chandler, her suffering husband soon to
be ex-husband, shows such painful anguish in his brief outbursts. It's
a measured performance that anchors the film and the stakes of the
relationships. Every performance of the ensemble – from extras to bit
parts – are delivering among their finest work. It's an all-rounder in terms of Oscar-contention, with Haynes perhaps
being a more likely bet for Best Director than the film is for Best
Picture. Blanchett has won too recently but if Weinstein works his
magic, Mara would be a strong contender in either leading or
supporting. Phyllis Nagy will certainly duel with Aaron Sorkin in Best
Adapted Screenplay, even if her work is more patient, while the
production and costume design ought to destroy competition. A sure bet
should be Carter Burwell for his beautiful score that sunk my chest
with its few powerful notes. It's an achingly tender film that will be
timeless, even if it doesn't resonate with everyone with such
specificity. Carol shouldn't just be a statement for our time and a
condemnation for past mistakes, it's a demonstration that love is a
part of the human condition regardless of sexuality. 8/10
