8
Listen to a fellow Movie Fan, not the so-called professional critics: Self/less is inventive and entertaining!

Sometimes I just don't understand so-called professional critics. I
really don't. You give them a very good movie and they complain that it
wasn't a lot better than it was. It's like they're going out of their
way to be negative. That bothers me and that's why I prefer to call
myself a movie "reviewer". I'm just someone who loves movies, sees a
lot of them, knows a bit about the industry and wants to use my
experience as a writer to discuss movies in a way that others might
enjoy and find useful – and from a movie fan's perspective.I'm only out to answer one question when I review a movie: Was it
entertaining? If I feel it was, I recommend it, giving it a grade in
the "A" or "B" range, depending on how entertaining it was. If it's not
very entertaining, or just bad, it gets a "C" or "D". And if the movie
is out-right horrible, it gets an "F". Simple, right? Well, "Self/less"
(PG-13, 1:56) isn't going to change the world, but it is interesting,
fun, thought-provoking and well-made. It is, simply stated, a very
entertaining film. What more do we need in a movie? Underneath all its
action and intrigue, this movie asks how important a person's life is
and at what cost a specific person's life should be preserved. Oscar
winner Ben Kingsley plays Damian Hale, a New York City real estate
tycoon who is dying of cancer. Like most people, Damian is more than a
little unnerved by the reality of his imminent demise, but, unlike most
people, he has the ability to do something about it. He becomes aware
of a very expensive and very secretive process by which his
consciousness can be implanted into a younger man's body, enabling
Damian to survive, enjoy life and contribute to society for another 50
years or so. He's rich enough to afford it and arrogant enough to think
he deserves it.Professor Albright (Matthew Goode) tells Damian that each body is an
"empty vessel" grown in the lab. The body that Damian is given to
inhabit looks a lot like Ryan Reynolds. The transition from his old
body to his new body (called "shedding") is disorienting. Damian's mind
has to get used to seeing a different reflection in the mirror and must
learn to adjust to his new physicality. Albright puts him up in a
luxury apartment near Albright's New Orleans facility in order to
monitor the progress of Damian, Version 2.0. Albright also gives the
new Damian red pills to help him suppress upsetting and reoccurring
visions. Albright calls them "hallucinations" and says that they're a
common side effect of the shedding process, but Damian says the visions
feel more like memories. Hmmm.As the story unfolds, Damian learns to make new friends, but keep the
old. In his temporary digs in the Big Easy, he starts hanging out with
a guy named Anton (Derek Luke). Damian also gets reacquainted with two
very different women from his past (played by Michelle Dockery and
Natalie Martinez) and has to reach out to an old friend and colleague
(Victor Garber) when things get… complicated. A sci-fi drama becomes a
mystery, a psychological thriller and an action movie with several
twists and turns. "Self/less" is part "Invasion of the Body Snatchers",
part "The Bourne Identity" and a little bit of "The Matrix". There's a
lot going on to keep you entertained while you're thinking deep
thoughts about the story's bigger issues.Some critics fault "Self/less" for becoming too much of an action movie
and failing to more fully exploit the plot's intriguing set-up. But I
have a feeling that if they got the movie they say they wanted, they'd
have called it boring. This is an original, exciting film that is very
well-acted, well-paced (by director Tarsem Singh) and well-plotted (by
screenwriters David and Alex Pastor). The moral issues are never far
from the moviegoers mind, and are still there to be considered after
some of the movie's more frenetic moments have faded from the screen. A
movie doesn't have to be completely original to be thought-provoking
and entertaining. "Self/less" is both – and more. "A-"
