4
What is there to say, you definitely won't remember this one

Incredible novel from great Norwegian writer Jo Nesbo has turned it's
pages onto screen and once again book to movie adaptation suffers from
same problems that always catch movies that try to portray characters
and action that happens inside book and minds of readers. Movie follows
Harry Hole (Michael Fassbender) and Katherine Bratt (Rebecca Ferguson)
as they stumble upon mysterious killer that leaves snowman's while
killing his victims. Michael Fassbender gives an interesting insight
into Hole's mind and his troubles but it seems as he was given too
little to work with and he did a pretty good job in that. Rebecca
Ferguson (Katherine Bratt) was also a good part of movie as she tries
to move and gives her best in everything but kept Harry at distance
most of time. Writers of the movie script took great project but as you
hear the lines and dialogues it is obviously that something isn't
right. Director Tomas Alfredson (Let the right one in, Tinker Tailor
Soldier Spy) gives his view of Snowman and it was sometimes slick but
many many time choppy and just feeling that movie needs to project
horror and fear was missing mostly, there are some great scenes and
shoots but it seems that he just didn't know how to put it together.
For the 119 min movie you will find last 20 minutes most entertaining
and filled with everything that movie needed from the beginning because
they are horrifying, tense and very greatly put together. There's a lot
people that love Jo Nesbo and his work because it's filled with great
action, incredible mystery, stunning character evaluation and much
more. Harry Hole as detective in all those books deserves the better
and proper portrayal because of potential that it could have in movie
world given how Snowman changed and messed with Harry which wasn't seen
very much in movie. In hope that movie won't get too destroyed and
there could a possible sequel with his next book like Leopard that even
much more to offer for filmmakers because this movie just might destroy
that opportunity. 1.5/4
