1
Stop... Please, just stop.

I'm going to forget for a second that I've played Silent Hill, I'm
going to switch off my brain and look at this film as a standalone
project, a generic horror film about a creepy town called Silent Hill.And as somebody who has forgotten all knowledge of the game series that
this film is based on, it would be nice if the film itself could fill
me in on the situation a little, instead of throwing 3d effects at the
screen and trying (Poorly) to relay a story that makes so little sense
that it almost becomes funny.Things happen for no reason and have little build-up or explanation,
and it isn't too enjoyable thanks to the hokey acting from the majority
of the cast, even stars like Sean Bean and Kit Harington turned in
mediocre performances, though with the writing the way it was one can't
exactly blame them.Now as someone who has seen the first film, this "sequel" (With the
most original sequel name ever might I add) has little to do with the
first. Sure it is set in the same place and some situations are
repeated but it doesn't continue the flow of the first, nor does it
follow any of the momentum. The first ended in a bitter way that held
no real place for a sequel to come in, so this whole film just seems
tacked on for some extra cash.But I'm sure the real problem here is the shameless butchering of
source material.If this film went under any other name or concept, it would be a badly
acted straight to DVD movie that only plays on the Sci-fi channels, but
because of the capitalisation on the name "Silent Hill" and the
intellectual property of its creators, this film has been given a free
pass, a pass which it did not use wisely.Once again, without any spoilers, it is safe to say that this film does
nothing in the ways of conveying the moods and feelings of any of the
original games, nor does it try to follow any of their stories, which
would be just fine if they didn't spend every other minute shoving fan-
service in my face, as if to say "Look! Remember this from the game? So
do we! Take a good long look at it!" Worst of all, the little nods that it gives to the game series are such
big parts of the plot that you cannot ignore the fact that they are
being used completely out of context, and it gets avid gamers like me
really mad.All in all, newcomers to the series who like horror films will have a
tough time understanding it, people who enjoyed the first film will
probably lose interest fast, and anyone who has played the games will
spend the entire film sitting in frustration. It is an unpleasant
experience, and I would recommend that nobody watches this, not even to
see how bad it is, because I don't think the Silent Hill community will
be very pleased with another sequel.
