2
I hate myself for thinking this would be good

Before I start this review I'm telling you that I generally love Seth
Rogan's sense of humour and all of the actors that were voicing the
characters I love as well, but this movie made me cringe. The entire
plot of the movie sounded great and watching the trailers definitely
caught everyone's attention, and it's not that often that an adult
animation comes out and gets that much hype. It had a really good
unique idea. The voice acting and animations were done really well.
That's about where the positivity ends.The first time I tried to watch it with my boyfriend, and we shut it
off after the "rape scene" with the douche and the juice box about 15
minutes or so into the movie. I mean, I can get how it can kind of be
comical because I mean, it's a douche and a juice box, but just the
fact that they were trying to compare it to rape was a bit screwed up
and made me uncomfortable.The second time I tried to watch it was with one of my friends who
swore it was hilarious and we just had to watch it so I was forced to
watch it and finish it. The entire time she was laughing at every
stupid and lazy attempt they made at humour and I was sitting there
straight-faced wishing it was over.I have a pretty good sense of humour but the constant sexual jokes in
this movie weren't even clever at all and they were pretty pathetic..
the kind of twelve year old boys make when they try to make everything
sound sexual. I was happy when I thought movie had finally come to an
end when suddenly all the food randomly started having this massive
orgy which was another 5 minutes of pointless ridiculousness.Honestly, this had a good idea but just turned out to be complete
trash, and not the funny kind. It was just pathetic and sad that people
wasted so much time and money to create it. If you have this certain
sense of humour that finds absolutely everything funny, you'd probably
laugh a few times. If you're like me where it takes more than some weak
sexual innuendos and over-the-top deaths to make you laugh then please
do yourself a favour and skip this one. Everyone I know that has seen
this (except that one friend) hated it.
