3
a disappointing mess

my initial reaction when I first saw the trailer to this was " hey this
is going to be one of the best films of 2017" and I couldn't have been
more wrong. this is certainly one of the most disappointing films of
this year so far, in my opinion of course. I really wanted to like this
film as well, It had a talented cast of people working behind it and a
seemingly emotional premise, but I couldn't help leaving the cinema
disappointed. the film was full of too many scenes, where not much
happened but they were stretched out beyond belief. for example, there
is a certain scene in this film which I will remember for all the wrong
reasons. in this scene M (Rooney Mara), comes home devastated following
seeing her recently deceased partner. She receives a pie from a
well-meaning friend, she grabs a fork, slumps on the floor and proceeds
to stress eat until she throws up. All while this goes on, C (Casey
Affleck) stands watching her. This scene lasts for about 6 or 7
minutes, which ends up feeling like an eternity. It was at this point
were a few people decided they'd had enough, and walked out. This film
wasted so much acting potential too, in terms of the two main actors
(Casey Affleck and Rooney Mara). I don't get how people are even saying
he did a great job, I mean its slightly disappointing that he went from
giving one of last year's best performances in Manchester by the sea
and has ended up in this film, were he is not able to show his real
acting potential. Rooney Mara is wasted as well, as mentioned earlier
her longest scene is when she stress eats a pie for 7 minutes. But I
get it, this film is meant and wants to be different. But that's all
I'll remember it by, and not the good kind of different for me either.
Critics seem to love it though, as different seems to appeal to them.
In fact, the split in quality between how your average viewer sees it
and how critics see it is certainly present. For a film which has such
a relatable topic (with the topic being about death, which everyone
goes through and must deal with)the film manages to somehow make you
feel disconnected from the characters. while the film had a quite
serious ending, when the title card 'a ghost story' appeared on screen,
people began to laugh at what a mess it was and how they had clearly
just wasted an hour and a half which they'll never get back.IN SUMMARY: an excruciatingly boring plot, which is stretched, so some
scenes, which in any other film would only be a minute long, are seven
times as long. The plot is also told with too many metaphors because
it's trying way too hard to be different. Disappointing acting
performances, no development in the characters and very flat
cinematography. People who either have a lot of patience or love arty
and different films, may find this somewhat enjoyable, but for everyone
else its not worth your time or money
