6
Absolutely Nuts

A group of aliens decide to put the fate of the world in the hands of
one random guy by giving him the power to make anything happen as a
test towards predicting the values of humanity.British writer/director Terry Jones, known for his work with the
hilarious Monty Python comedy group, returns with his first feature
film in 19 years for Absolutely Anything, and it's absolutely perfect
absurdity. From a hilarious talking dog to a series of unpredictable
gags ranging from walking turds to the accidental annihilation of an
entire classroom of kids, the film's unpredictable humor is completely
nuts. But like a fine mix of chocolate-covered nuts, Jones makes sure
none of the jokes ever become mean-spirited, ensuring the film
maintains some refined substance through its mostly lighthearted
antics. Just don't expect the same style of humor seen in his '70s
comedic masterpiece Monty Python and the Holy Grail.Now I won't try and bring your hopes up with empty promises,
considering this flick is far from being award-worthy. Any forms of
deep character development or profound script elements are instead
replaced with an extra dose of silly gags, but at least they're funny
enough to justify their existence. Full of unexpected wit that cleverly
mixes its comedic styles, Absolutely Anything had me laughing from
start to finish. Obviously Simon Pegg deserves some recognition for
this, considering he's the one that allowed the far-fetched situations
come to life with impeccable comedic timing. The best parts are, of
course, the trial and error associated with Pegg trying to figure out
how to properly use his powers without having them hilariously backfire
in his face. What will surprise audiences the most, however, is the
fantastic voice work brought to Pegg's lovably annoying pet dog by none
other than the late legend himself, Robin Williams. It's a little
bittersweet considering it's his final roll, but it certainly comes
with great pleasure to say it's a memorable one.Thankfully I never bothered checking out the film's Rotten Tomatoes
rating before watching it, because it's exceptionally low 8% critic
approval might have persuaded me not to give it a chance. How the
undeniably pointless Stan-Helsing or Kevin Smith's unfunny detective
comedy Cop Out managed to get higher critic approval scores is beyond
me. Maybe it's time people adjust the tracking on their VCRs and take
the time to actually watch things clearly. Wait People don't watch VHS
tapes anymore? Oh Well I guess we can't really blame the picture
quality now can we? Hum Perhaps my taste in movies has just
relinquished in quality over the years? Or maybe my sense of humor just
belongs in a Saturday morning cartoon? Either way, I'd like to think
I'm not the crazy one.
