8
Irreverent and hilarious medieval comedy romp

In medieval Italy, a young man takes refuge in a convent after fleeing
from his master who wishes him dead after he is caught sleeping with
his wife.Now, this was something a bit different to the norm that's for sure!
There really isn't a surfeit of medieval comedies about sweary nuns, so
this one is in pretty unfarmed territory in a lot of ways. While the
unique set-up is definitely in the films favour, what elevates it so
much more is the fact that it is that even rarer beast, a modern
cinematic comedy that actually has plenty of laughs. The principal
reason for this is a great ensemble cast who all do very good work.
John C. Reilly is great as Father Tommasso who gets bevvied nightly on
the holy wine, Fred Armisen is very funny as Bishop Bartolomeo who
pitches up later only to be aghast at the carry on going on at the
nunnery and Nick Offerman is hilarious as the obnoxious Lord Bruno, a
man who sports an impressive medieval mullet haircut. But best of all
are the trio of nuns, played by Alison Brie, Aubrey Plaza, and Kate
Micucci. All three actresses put in excellent comic performances in
wild portrayals of medieval nuns played like modern day city girls.
They swear like troopers, throw turnips at the local handyman and seek
sex at every given opportunity, culminating with a night-time witch's
ceremony. Seemingly this nonsense is based on The Decameron by Giovanni
Boccaccio, although I am sure many liberties must have been taken with
the original text. It looks beautiful though with great location
cinematography in Tuscany, while it also has a great soundtrack to top
it off.As the old saying goes, this one certainly is not for everyone. Its
combination of religion with utterly irreverent humour will rub people
up the wrong way for sure, while its bawdy nature will put others off.
I personally thought it was a really good laugh though. A comedy film
coming at us from a unique perspective. If you are on the look-out for
something (a) different and (b) funny then this could be just the
ticket.
