1
They should refund our money and time

There was promise in the premise of two opposites dealing with a too
close for comfort situation. Sadly, every single element here is the
worst of the worst. From the writing, to the non existent "comedy", to
the horrible casting choices and the lack of chemistry in many of the
different couples here. It's hard to feel any empathy for the old
couple, or even believe any of the brothers were really fond of each
other, and the unbelievably stupidity of the script dragged everyone to
even lower levels. This was one time when one was wishing for negative
numbers to be used for ratings here.Seth Rogen, usually a very likable everyday type only annoys everyone
from the beginning, and Gowan can't lend any credibility to her role as
the wife of this loser. This is probably to the fact she has always
played women who are either a plain Jane type or have the ability to
manipulate or deceive those around them. She doesn't seem capable of
showing any degree of sexiness, and the dialog she has been given makes
the situation more ludicrous than ever.Here comes Zach who doesn't fare as badly, but there is still nothing
he can do with the horrible puns, lines, and directions, if we can call
them given to him by whoever was directing this mess. Sitting through
this is probably the equivalent of water torture, medieval sadism, or
something worse. It was torture for the sense because of the endless
barrage of vulgarity, ineptitude, and huge amounts of contempt for
those in the audience. It was offensive in so many levels with its
visual display of scenes that deserve an NC-17 more than an R.
Language, visuals, jokes, special effects, everything is here was
deplorable and disgusting.It's not that we had a couple of desperate morons trying to outdo each
other in order to stop a situation like this. We have seen it before,
and it has been at least entertaining or done in a creative manner to
suggest an action, rather to give unnecessary graphic imagery. What is
happening here? We had "The Watch" and their obsession with male
private parts and scatological jokes, then "The Wolf" came along, and
we were supposed to believe drug abuse was good cinema, and now this
came to top everything else. A big problem was that this is lending no
credibility to what critics might potentially say in the future. I
truly don't understand what film they saw, but there is absolutely
nothing to recommend about this disaster.
