8
Brutally hilarious and quite messy, but a total blast from start to finish

I only had one thought on my mind for this Christmas: see Django
Unchained. Quentin Tarantino's latest opus, a Western set two years
before the Civil War, concerns a former slave named Django (Jamie
Foxx). He is freed by bounty hunter Dr. King Shultz (Christoph Waltz)
in order to help him with a bounty. Quite quickly, Shultz takes Django
under his wing and trains him as his partner. But he made him a
promise: that he would rescue his wife from a plantation owned by the
ruthless Calvin Candie (Leonardo DiCaprio). And rescuing her is not
going to be all that easy.What pains me the most about Django Unchained, as a die-hard Tarantino
fan, is just how sloppy it all seems. I enjoyed every minute of it, but
I could never shake the feeling of how messy and thrown together it all
feels. Portions of the film feel episodic (the search for the Brittle
Brothers, mentioned heavily in the trailers, begins and ends
practically within minutes), and some scenes just seem to play out just
for the fun of it. Another scene from the trailers involving a lynch
mob with bags covering their faces seems added for comedic purposes,
and has no real point of actually existing. More than any of his films
before it, Django feels like Tarantino simply making a movie for sheer
pleasure and with no outside motivations or controllers. The film threatens to go totally off the rails at any given moment, and
lacks any real sense of direction or focus. It may sound ridiculous,
but the loss of editor Sally Menke confirms a sneaking suspicion I
always had about Tarantino – he needed a steady right hand to help
encourage him as to what was needed and what was not. I do not want to
criticize Django's editor Fred Raskin, but it is obvious he is no Menke
and that works against the film heavily. It lacks the polish we have
come to expect, and is practically stripped of the glossy/cool texture
so prevalent in Tarantino's work up until now.But then maybe that was his intention all along, and perhaps Tarantino
is airing out his frustrations with life and film in general. Django is
deliberately shot on film (or at least from the print I saw), and looks
very gritty and messy at all times. It is significantly more brutally
violent than anything he has worked on before (the borderline
cartoonish Kill Bill included), and has a very go for broke attitude
about itself. The film seems to revel in how brilliantly it can
splatter all the blood and gore (done through the use of squibs and no
digital!), and how uncomfortably numbing it can make the violence. I
know he does not care what people think of his films, but this movie
especially seems like an emphatically raised middle finger to the
establishment. And for all of my complaints about how messy it all
feels, I was never once bored or felt like the movie was dragging
itself out. The staggering 165-minute running time shockingly flies by
faster than you might ever imagine.Acting wise, Tarantino stacks the deck with a number of recognizable
character actors young and old for roles that vary in size. Most have
very few lines, if any at all, and seem to just stand by, just as
content as the audience is to watch the action unfold. It is a little
off-putting, especially with how important some of these characters are
initially made out to be. Washington as Broomhilda von Shaft (one of
the most subtle references he's ever dropped) does well as the helpless
victim and frequent dreamlike object – but she never really gets to
show off any of her acting prowess outside of her facial reactions.
They are increasingly effective, especially during horrific flashback
scenes. But her work here feels ridiculously stunted in comparison to
the other leads. Samuel L. Jackson, much like Tarantino himself, seems
to just be having fun in his role as Candie's adviser Stephen. He plays
on every ridiculous stereotype he ever has been associated with and
then amps it up to a near ludicrous state. He is frequently hilarious,
but the role seems to border on parody more than anything else.Surprisingly, Foxx takes a very long time settling into the leading
role. It may just be the character, but it is quite clear from the on-
set that he is not very comfortable in Django's shoes, and leads
credence to why Will Smith, amongst so many others, dropped out of the
picture so quickly. But once he finds his footing, he does a fantastic
job walking the thin line between empathetic and sadistic. It is not an
easy character to play, but Foxx makes it his own, bringing a sense of
style and grace that are virtually absent from the rest of the film.
And of course, he gets all the best lines.Waltz and DiCaprio are the clear standouts however, nailing every
nuance of their sadly underwritten characters. While Waltz plays the
straight man, DiCaprio is delightfully unhinged and vicious. Both are
playing directly against type, yet are strangely comfortable in the
roles. Watching them act circles around the rest of the cast, Foxx
included, is the true highlight of the film. I just wish they were both
given additional emphasis and more to do. For all of its numerous faults, I had a blast watching Django
Unchained. It is hilarious, it is a lot of fun, and is wildly
enjoyable. I genuinely think it could have been a lot better if there
was more focus and direction, but this is very clearly a picture
Tarantino wanted to make on his own terms. And for that, I applaud him
for the effort. It is not his best work, but certainly not his worst. 8/10.
