6
Don't be scared off: "Annabelle: Creation" not a bad flick

The original Annabelle from a couple of years ago was a movie that
literally made no impact on me whatsoever. It was bad, but not the
worst movie of the year type of bad. It was essentially just a 2 hour
period of my life that is gone and I'll never get back. I was dreading
this second Annabelle movie. Watching a bad movie is one thing,
returning to watch a sequel (or prequel in this case) to a bad movie
feels like I'm just asking for punishment.I have to say this movie isn't remotely as bad as I expected. I
wouldn't go so far as to call it good, but it was at the very least a
step up from the previous Annabelle. This film has some solid
atmosphere, scenes that are very tense, and horrifying visuals. It also
has quite a few moments of comedy that I assume are intentional.
Additionally, the direction by David F. Sandberg is strong.Notice, I have yet to praise the story. The script is by Gary Dauberman
who also wrote the original Annabelle. It goes like this, the Mullins
(Miranda Otto and Anthony LaPaglia) lose their daughter (Samara Lee) in
a tragic accident. Cut to twelves years later and the Mullins have
opened their home to six foster kids and their caretaker Sister
Charlotte (Stephanie Sigman) and that's where most the movie sits at
for awhile. People are forbidden from entering the room of Mrs. Mullins
and the daughter's old room. These rules go as well as you'd expect in
a movie. Throughout we largely follow the children as jump scares
happen to them and little else. It takes until the film is almost over
to get to any real answers to the questions the audience had. Why does
Mrs. Mullins isolate herself? How does this in any way relate to that
creepy doll that hangs out in the house? Why is Mr. Mullins always such
a downer? I know his daughter died, but that was twelve years ago.
Surely life has gone on. These are massive plot points that the movie
takes entirely too long to answer.This leads to another problem with the film, and this is a big one. The
demon that haunts the house seems to have no rules. One moment is will
tear a person in half and the next it has trouble getting someone who's
trapped in a barn. It can teleport anywhere at anytime and sometimes
even seems to occupy more than one location at once, but for some
reason can't quite seem to catch those nosy kids. It's a demon skilled
at jump scares, but rarely seems to actually accomplish anything it's
shooting for.This movie is an excellent example of a poorly written movie handled by
a skilled director. He can't quite make it good, but at times it almost
seems like it had a ghost of a chance.
