6
A Movie Aimed for the New Generation

Now before I begin this review let me clear the fact that this MOVIE is
aiming for the new younger audience. This movie is not focusing on
aiming for the fans of the past generation. So lets look at it this
way.Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is directed by Jonathan Liebsman and
Produced by Michael Bay. It stars Megan Fox as April O'Neil, and 4
turtles who don't look that good with the CGI. With this kind of set
up, its already predictable that this would be a disaster.As I watched this movie in a theater packed with a tremendous amount of
children. I guess I could say, this movie was entertaining for me. The
stars of the movie are, hands down the Turtles especially Mikey. They
stole the movie in every scene they were in, and I would watch a 1 hour
movie with just all of them goofing around and making jokes. However,
in fact the movie often negates the fact that the turtles are the main
subject in this movie, it circles it's story mostly around April
O'Neil. As for her character, I found her annoying at many times. And
because Michael Bay has something to do with this movie, Megan Fox had
to do scenes for the "benefit' of Bay as usual. Going back to the
turtles, I think that they had nailed them and captured everything that
we loved about them, the movie is worth watching because of them. The
Villains are one of the weak points of this film. Shredder is a very
dull, boring and predictable villain. He is only there for what I
believe is fan service. Other than that, his motives are unclear and
the reason he is in this movie is for the battle scenes.As for the story, it is filled with unbelievable amounts of cliché.
Because of this, I had no choice but to be irritated at times or
sometimes these scenes gave no effect to me whatsoever even if the main
intention of the scene was entirely different. The evil plot of the
villain, was downright cringe worthy, plot holes were circling from
there and there. . Clichés and plot holes aside, the story is what I
would imagine for children and all of us were to look it that way, then
I guess I could say the plot was alright I guess. The action sequences
were just OK, there were some that were interesting and some that was
incredibly DIFFICULT to watch. I know Michael Bay didn't direct this,
but My God. Every Michael Bay action-cliché is in this movie. The Slow
Motion, Explosions, Attractive Women and the incredibly shaky camera. I
almost felt dizzy watching some of the action sequences. At the end of the day, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is a great movie to
watch if you want bonding times with your kids or if you're totally
high or craving for some pizza. In my opinion, it won't ruin your
childhood, in fact it might even remind and bring back old memories of
your childhood, with the many references being made in this movie. The
kids will love this movie and I recommend everyone to bring pizza while
watching it. A dull and boring villain, a mediocre plot filled with a massive amount
of clichés and Michael Bay style action sequences. without the Turtles,
this movie would be pure trash.Verdict: 6.5/10
