9
Lives up to it's expectations!!!

From the moment it began and I heard it open to 'Holiday Road' I knew I
was in for a great ride! I think there are two types of people that
will not like this movie. First, those that see it as a stand alone
movie without having seen the original and those who are comparing it
too much to the original. You have to go into this movie as a fan of
the original Vacation, however you have to realize this isn't a story
about Clark Griswold and his family, it's a story about Rusty Griswold
and how much he is like his father in how over-the-top caring he is
about his family. I think Ed Helms did a much better job than some of
the other actors that were considered could have done. As I watched
this movie I found myself saying, "Yup, that's what Clark would do in
that moment", so kudos to Helms. Now, (spoiler alert) you do have to
stay seated through the first run of incredibly poor jokes about Rusty
being an airline pilot for a low-budget company. This was very tedious
and made me wonder what I was in for. Like I said, stay seated! Once
you get past this first few minutes the fun begins! The director did an
incredible job paying just enough homage to the original to make you
respect his ability. You don't get the feeling they are ripping off
jokes from the original at all and that's the sign of a great (and
rare) sequel. It doesn't rely on old jokes, it respectfully honors the
original in ways that you expect and want to see. And yes, when we
finally get to see Clark Griswold it is incredible! Chevy's short
screen time is definitely worth the wait, he truly is and always will
be Clark Griswold with his wacky ways but yet wise words of wisdom for
his son. The best part for me (again, spoiler) is when Clark opens the
(correct) garage door and you see the pea green wagon-family-truckster.
It's almost tear-jerking joy when it happens. So, again, enjoy the
homage paid to the original, listen closely and you will pick up on so
much like the references to cousin Eddie and even the joke about the
first grand canyon visit. The one disappointment I had (last spoiler, I
promise) was the girl in the red Ferrari scene. The joke was funny,
however it lost a lot of it's translation when they didn't play the
song 'Little Boy Sweet' as done in the two previous presentations of
this long-running joke. Now beware, it is obvious that the film makers
are seeking a new, younger franchise audience so this movie is cruder,
ruder and at times can make you literally gag with their brand of
humor. It does go over the top in my opinion with the vulgar music
lyrics twice during the film which I felt was totally unnecessary, but
if you can deal with this you're still going to have a great time! The
overall acting was excellent. Christina Applegate is still hot and the
two kids that play Rusty's son's are very funny. This movie is even
better if you watch the original the night before you see this one!
