8
Miles Teller is fantastic in this inspirational comeback of all comebacks

When it comes to film, there is no other sport that has delivered such
powerful and emotional dramas on the big screen as boxing. It's the
personal drama they delve into that makes them so relatable to
audiences. That's not to say we've all climbed the Rocky Steps or
assaulted family members as a result of paranoia though. Many have been based on true stories and that is certainly the case
with Bleed For This, a film based on the astonishingly courageous real
life experiences of Vinny Pazienza. Played by Miles Teller, Pazienza was a World Champion Boxer who was
left not knowing whether he'd be able to walk again after a near fatal
car accident caused severe spinal damage. Rather than let it defeat
him, Pazienza aimed to get back in the ring, setting in motion one of
the greatest comebacks in sporting history.The biggest draw of Bleed For This are its performances, particularly
the knock-out lead one given by Miles Teller, one of the hottest young
actors in Hollywood today. Teller never loses the cockiness of
Pazienza, even when he faces a life without boxing, turning him into
such a remarkable character.I really enjoyed the pairing of Teller and Aaron Eckhart as his
trainer, Kevin Rooney. Eckhart hasn't really had much to shout about in
recent years but I do think he's a good actor, showcasing it here with
a good performance. Ciarán Hinds and Katey Sagal deliver fine
performances as Vinny's mother and father, taking me a while to realise
it was even them with the change in appearance.The best boxing films are the ones that focus more on the goings on
outside of the ring than inside it, and that's where Ben Younger gets
it right with Bleed For This. Yes, a big part of the story is Vinny
wanting to get back in the ring but Younger chooses to focus on the man
himself and how driven an individual he was to get back to his best in
the ring.Younger also delivers some energetic boxing sequences, using quick
edits and excellent sound mixing to almost feel like you're taking the
punches at times. The brutality of the sport is wince- inducing at
times so the film does warrant its rating however, the moment that had
everyone wincing was when Vinny has the screws taken out of his head
after six months of wearing the halo designed to help his neck recover.
It's a moment that perfectly captures the severity of Vinny's accident
as well as the aforementioned cockiness, Teller playing it for laughs.If you're a fan of boxing films, Bleed For This is a film you will want
to see. Don't dismiss it entirely if you aren't a big fan of boxing
films because there is plenty to admire in this portrayal of one of the
most inspirational comebacks in sporting history.
