7
The climax is quite possibly one of the single greatest scene in cinematic history

Gerald's Game is psychological horror film written and directed by Mike
Flanagan based on the novel written by Stephen King. The movie tells
the story of Jessie Burlingame and her husband Gerald and their aim to
rekindle their troubled marriage by taking a vacation to an isolated
lake house. Once there, Gerald immediately attempts bondage sexual
intercourse with Jessie by handcuffing her to the bedframes, but before
he can free her, he untimely dies of a heart attack. Now we have an
isolated thriller where our heroine must find a way to liberate herself
from the bed before she dies of hunger, thirst or insanity. I wondered
to myself after watching the trailer, how does a movie about a woman in
one location be spread to two hours? I then remembered structurally
similar films like Buried and 127 Hours did it by a combination of
focusing on the protagonists' struggles to stay alive and flashbacks. I
really enjoyed Mike Flanagan previous horror films as I think he has an
eye for creepy images and a sense of dread. I believe Gerald's Game
might be his best film yet.The movie is not your typical slasher film or ghost movie, but a
character study about sexual abuse and overcoming trauma. The meat of
the story is Jessie tied to the bed, talking to herself while trying to
recall her suppressed memories of a horrible childhood event. A movie
like this lives or dies by the performance of the actors and Carla
Gugino as Jessie gives one of the best performances of the year. With
90% of the screen time, she needed to carry the movie on her back and
she did just that. A lesser actress could have turned the movie from
very good to not so good, but Gugino owned the screen at every
millisecond. Bruce Greenwood as the titular character also gave a
grade-A performance.Technically, the film while reclusive, is excellent. The cinematography
made the atmosphere and feeling of being tied up in your room with the
house door wide open absolutely frightful. It also uses darkness very
well and produced some very disturbing and harrowing images from it,
akin to Flanagan's previous films Oculus and Ouija: Origin of Evil. The
climax of the film is quite possibly one of the single greatest scene
in cinematic history. I almost never turn away from violence in movies,
but I had to pause this because it was making me feel so uncomfortable.
The way the scene was built up, filmed, acted and of course the
amazingly gruesome special effects cemented the clip as a YouTube
rewatch favorite.One thing I would point to as a negative is the second act did drag and
relied heavily on dialogue exposition. While I find the mystery of
Jessie's past to be interesting, the way it was filmed was a bit slow.
Not really fault to the filmmakers since that was how it happened in
King's novel, but it still could have taken a few more cinematic
liberties. The film does employ flashbacks to help the audience escape
confinement, but I would have liked to see it used more to give details
on other aspect of Jessie's life. Also, it is a shame the movie felt
the need to follow the novel to the T with the ending, because if would
have been perfect if it ended with the climax and left all unresolved
up to interpretation, instead of it being spoon-fed to us with boring
narration and a series of never- ending endings.Overall I think Gerald's Game is a very good entry to the psychological
horror genre. It was suspenseful and intense, with a fantastic
performance from Carla Gugino and a cinematic masterpiece of a climax.
There are some problems with the draggy second act and ending(s), but I
think the movie still shines through. Those who are fans of horror,
survival and stories about overcoming childhood trauma should no doubt
watch this movie. I will just dare you to watch it with eyes wide
opened.
