4
Takes The Low Road

If a movie would ever be produced to show the backstory of the Roger
Moore version of James Bond—what his childhood was like, and how he
became who he was—that movie would probably closely resemble 2015's
"Kingsman: The Secret Service." Under Moore's stewardship, the Bond series drifted toward a critical
nadir, growing progressively more silly and ineffectual until by the
end the pictures were little more than parlor comedies with nifty
gadgets and occasional off-color gags—in other words, much like
"Kingsman."Based on a series of comic books, the primary similarity between the
first "Kingsman" movie and its sequel is in the quality of the humor—
sophomoric. But the first picture had the advantage of being innovative
—its immediate focus was to introduce and establish the characters,
which it did in an acceptably entertaining fashion. The actual story,
such as it was, became of secondary importance.In "Kingsman: The Golden Circle," the level of maturity is about the
same as in the first. The difference with "Kingsman 2" is that when a
gag is set up, if there's a choice between aiming high toward genuine
wit or aiming low toward a cheap laugh, the script will invariably
follow the low road.And that's only when there's a payoff at all—there are plenty of
set-ups in "Kingsman 2" which lead nowhere, as if the filmmakers forgot
where they were going, or that their primary purpose was to entertain
the audience instead of simply amusing themselves.This problem extends to the casting: After the first "Kingsman" picture
earned over $414 million in worldwide revenues, the studio raised the
budget of the second installment by over $20 million. Much of the
budget was presumably spent on luring a number of veteran Academy
Award- winning motion picture actors to the series—Julianne Moore,
Halle Berry, and Jeff Bridges are among the familiar faces joining the
"Kingsman" cast for the second installment. But apparently after the expense of paying for the extra acting talent,
little or no money remained to invest in developing the story or the
screenplay for the actors to work with. This problem is especially
apparent in the picture's third act, which dissolves into a melee of
senseless, violent silliness.As in the first picture, "Kingsman: The Golden Circle" embraces the
sort of cartoonish brutality familiar to fans of videogames.
Considering the picture's unfunny gags, unpersuasive effects, absence
of a compelling plot, and lethal overlength—a totally unnecessary 141
minutes—"Kingsman" time passes slowly indeed. Even the old Roger Moore James Bond pictures were better than this.
