7
A well made film that shoots itself in the foot

Best friends Chon (Kitsch) and Ben (Johnson) are genius pot dealers in
Laguna. One of them is more of a "save the universe" type guy and holds
a degree in Business and Botany. Yes, pot heads in High Schools
everywhere just rejoiced "It's a real thing!" and the other one,
suffering from anger issues stemming from tours in Iraq takes care of
the "beating the crap out of people when necessary" aspect. Oh yeah,
they also share a girlfriend. (Awkward right?), her name is O (Lively).
No really it is I swear. Anyways, moving on because we have to, these
two guys have made some of the best pot known to man and have made
millions from it. (Still can't find their own girlfriend though, just
saying). Everything is going great as they take turns with their shared
girlfriend (still weird) in their huge beach house when the Mexican
drug cartel decides they want to be partners. This actually stands for
"We own you now and you know you like it." Ben and Chon don't really
feel like being De-decapitated so they decide to make a go of living in
a jungle somewhere until Elena (Hayeck) the ruthless lady leader of the
cartel has O kidnapped.So are you over the fact that our two heroes share a girl yet? OK good,
because I'm not either. This is one of those films that can only be
enjoyed if you can let go of a few things. The whole film is narrated
by O in her stoned and lazy version of her "OMG you guys I am so high
right now" voice. She is a lot like her role in The Town only without
the Boston accent. She is really annoying as a character and it's kind
of hard to feel bad for her much less root for her. This is one of the
things you have to let go of to enjoy the film. Ben and Chon worked
well because they are the exact opposite to one another yet somehow
have the respect for each-other to get along despite their constant
different point of views. Kill everybody or run away. Ben was almost as
annoying as O because he was always whining and psycho-analyzing
everything. I found Chon to be my favorite of the three because he
seemed to be the only one who just wanted to actually get things done
and blow up some stuff while everyone else talked and talked some more.Villains make films though and despite the awkwardness and
UN-likability of some of the lead roles the bad guys were sinister,
relentless and kind of funny at times. One interaction between Elena's
ruthless right hand man Lado (Del Toro) and out for himself FBI agent
Dennis (Travolta) in particular was tense and humorous at the same
time. Travolta was surprisingly great in this film as he looked like
his old self and I was pleased to see he had a larger part in the film
than anticipated. Elena had a well written back story as well as the
bad guys, while certainly crude enough to hate were interesting enough
to steal the flick. Savages UN-intentionally gives us no-one to root for and may even get
on your nerves for a moment or two with its anything goes mentality.
There is no doubt however, that it has some great action sequences,
well written dialog (minus a few horrendous lines by O's character),
strong acting by a strong cast and is an all-around well-made film all
the way up until it's absolutely dreadful crash and burn of an ending.
I won't give anything away here but let's just say this ending is a
problem. It felt as though the Director had a decent ending for a good
film but wanted some attention so badly that he was willing to ruin his
own movie to do so. You don't always have to be edgy and cute.
Sometimes playing things straight up is what's best.
