4
Incoherent, predictable, boring.

I wonder why this movie has such a high rating. This tricked me into
going to the theater to watch it. So, a virus kills most people on
earth. At the same time the apes evolve and become intelligent. Of
course this has to happen over generations and not just by the passing
of time in the same individuals, but let's say it happened. And so the
plot holes begin:All the human survivors are gathered in one building in the middle of
San Fransisco. What are they eating? Do they grow the earth? -NoDo they raise livestock? -No.Are they near a spring or well to have fresh running water? -No.Are they dressed in animal skins or primitive hand made clothes? -No,
they use 10 or 15 year old clothes and look great.So all these people together produce a lot of waste, what happens to
it? -Nothing, probably use the sewers which are capable of functioning
forever without any maintenance of any kind. Probably the writers
imagined the survivors using the toilet and flushing and the water
appearing magically from taps, showers and toilets...What do they really need? -Power to charge the i-Pad to see the old
photos. Of course they cannot go to the nearest refinery or gas depot
and fill a tanker truck, but they risk their lives going to the
mountains against angry intelligent apes, because the radio uses a lot
of power and the nuclear plant doesn't work any more. Makes perfect
sense.And of course when they repair the dam the power magically transfers to
the city, tenths of miles far, because of course poles do not fall down
and cables don't cut after 10 or 15 years without maintenance just like
the sewers.The apes can all talk, and the villain ape has English accent. They
prefer to use sign language though because a language which is useless
in the dark or even just when the other person is not looking at you is
superior to a spoken language.And which is the best way to test guns? By shooting them, because 10-15
years old or older guns with out any kind of maintenance never blow up
in your face when you try to shoot them.And then the apes learn to use the guns and they shoot literally
thousands of rounds without ever reloading. No need to reload in
wonderland... I, personally had one year of training for my military
service, and I am still not sure how to use a weapon I was not trained
with but hey I m not an ape!A lot more stupidity from the writers and finally, the human warns the
apes that the army is coming to wipe them out, but the ape leader which
through the entire movie is depicted as intelligent, moderate and
cautious does not order to hide in the woods. Instead he stays in the
city waiting for the army.The characters are a joke, especially the bad guys, and generally don't
spend any money on this if you are over 16 years old. Don't watch it
altogether if you are under 16 years old because it is full of stupid
and meaningless violence...
