7
Has it's flaws, but overall even scarier than it's predecessor

I was able to see 'The Conjuring 2' at an advanced screening last night
and I left feeling surprisingly satisfied. I can't remember the last
time I saw a horror sequel that was able to hold it's own against it's
predecessor, but with James Wan at the helm; I went in cautiously
optimistic. Let me say off the bat that this movie is legitimately scary. It's the
scariest horror film I've seen in a while and it does have genius
scares, despite having many in the first half that felt a little cheap.
This brings me to my biggest problem with 'The Conjuring 2'. Though
this movie is consistently intense and definitely never boring, I felt
that the first 50-or-so minutes were often formulaic and ineffective.
This is a structural problem that I had and I'm sure it won't be a
problem for many audience members. That entire first act consists of many individual scenes that all end
in a scare, and the majority of these scares don't necessarily feel
earned. So as a result; this section of the film often feels repetitive
and drawn out. By this, I mean that one specific character reacts to
one disturbing scare by not telling anyone about it. It also includes a
few clichés that didn't greatly affect the plot and wouldn't be missed
(e.g Ouija board, children hearing something and getting out of bed to
look for it; seriously this happens way too many times in this movie).
I'm perfectly fine with film-makers experimenting with structure, but
I'm afraid it just didn't work for me in this movie. In fact it's
a-scare-a-scene design came off as conventional and peddling to the
masses. I think the film would have benefited from a greater focus on
slow-building tension.Any problems within the troubled first act are nothing in comparison to
the tension and legitimate terror rife throughout the last hour. In
fact I feel confident enough in saying that I found this film to be
even scarier than the first in the series. I found the music to be nothing particularly standout on it's own, but
it worked well within the context of the movie and is greatly
responsible for the tension created throughout. The performances from
Patrick Wilson and Vera Farmiga were very good and the child actors
were able to hold their own and not be just "good for kids". This film
took risks in it's presentation including the design of many of the
entities seen throughout, and I thought that this mostly remained
effective. So overall; I found this to be an extremely successful horror film. I
admire James Wan's ambition and I was impressed by his masterful use of
long takes. I felt that the flaws in this film were greatly outweighed
by it's achievements and I will definitely be checking it out again
soon. In my opinion this is the best horror sequel since 'Evil Dead II'
and I would definitely recommend it. Go check it out!
