7
Its a Jurassic World after all.

The 4th film in the Jurassic Park series and the second sequel that
Steven Spielberg did not direct starts off well enough with enough call
backs to the first film of the series but quickly turns into a monster
movie with a run away super killer dinosaur that was spliced by the DNA
of other prehistoric creatures for the sake of selling extra tickets.
If my description of the plot Is pretty simplistic,it's because the
story is that simple. So forget the dangers of science morality tales
that both "Jurassic Park" and "The Lost World" gave to it's stories and
just accept that the series has become a standard creature feature that
just swaps out it's main monster for every new installment. The last
film in the series "Jurassic Park 3" pretty much threw away the whole
plot lines of the first two films just to give us a chase film with a
dinosaur that was never even seen in "The Lost World" and that film was
set on the same island. While "Jurassic Park 3" just went on a painful
90 minutes long montage of talking raptors, horrible scenes of family
bonding and an visible annoyed Sam Neill looking like he's about to go
postal on the people working on the film set, Jurassic World manages to
be a hell of a lot more enjoyable experience for the viewer in terms of
just trying to inject a sense of plot and continuity to this other wise
creature feature.As a standard creature feature, the movie works well and gives you your
money's worth of dinosaurs doing collateral damage to property and
personnel with the occasional park visitor being killed for good
measure. Throw in your slack jaw good guy ( Chris Pratt) who feels that
the creatures are misunderstood and works with good guy dinosaurs(I
Kidd you not) to help stop the super killer dinosaur. Throw in an human
adversary for our hero to fight with ( Vincent D"Onofrio) who would
blow the whole island up to get this monster and add an human element
like two lost children who are related to a employee at this crazy
theme park who by the way has the hots for our hero and you have the
entire story right there.It's hard enough to keep a franchise going, especially when you're
dealing with dinosaurs walking the earth. You will eventually hit a
wall in terms of storytelling if your primary goal is to keep turning
these films out with out any care what so ever. We saw that with
"Jurassic Park 3" where all the plot points from the previous two films
were abandon for a B Movie creature feature. "Jurassic World" tries
hard to correct that by having the movie be about something a little
more and try to connect itself to the first film of the series. And Its
much better film for it but it still ends up a creature feature all the
same.
