10
Unwanted Nightmare

I think I should be honest with you before I can explain about my
comprehend of Sausage Party because it is, no doubt, the most
controversial movie of 2016. It's a full density of references and
analogies to carry on the message. It's a serious business, not a humor
film.I was surprised when I found out that Greg Tiernan directed this movie
because he is known for Thomas & Friends. Conrad Vernon is one other
director of this film that did not surprise me because I have always
felt that he used animation as a tool to relieve the resistance of
underlying messages. However, this is definitely an extreme that is for
adults only. The foods are personifications, and it's about their intentions of
living by abiding the moral ethics. Each package of food is a case of
its own race. The sausages obviously are men of its own race that are
known as "fancy men" who are full of perverts that objectify things.
They are motivated in doings for money or status solely around sex. The
buns are obviously women of its own race (White probably). They desire
to be desired. They exposed their facial and body features and mainly a
behavioral statement as a "chosen one." It's the statement that boosts
the attractiveness. Bottom line, both sausages, and buns ultimately
objectify things and themselves for love and sex (Perverts and to be
Desired). Okay, now, this is about the sausages. Frank is the leading character
of its own package of food. Like guys in general, he acts like "p*ssy
is just a p*ssy" in front of his gang, but he secretly thinks worldly
of Brenda (Bun). Brenda, a bun, is like the women who want to be mainly desired by men.
She would push other women down to be more desired than them. She would
use moral ethics as a weapon towards other buns who quickly give up for
the sausages. Her long working actions are to reach a lasting romance
with Frank. Frank and Brenda can be an analogy to Adam and Eve. They thought that
they gave up by tipping each other too early may cost them the fates.Kareem Abdul Lavash is a Muslim, and Sammy Jr. is a Jewish. Like Israel
and Palestine, they dislike each other. Teresa del Taco is a Hispanic who is also lesbian. Her confidence and
street smart stand out the others. She made Brenda realized that she
used moral ethics as a weapon to define herself and others because of
the lacked confidence in herself. Brenda admired her, and at the same
time, she wished that Frank has the same confidence and shows the
desires like Taco did to her. It reflects what is essential for men to
have.Three Native Americans (Mr. Grits, Firewater, and Twink) are for the
Id, Superego, and Ego. They worked together to find the truth and
decide the proper acts for the truth. They were the ones who informed
Frank about "the Great Beyond" is the idea is created to comfort them
when facing death. Douche is an evil character. He's a reference for people who didn't
know how to cope with any wrongful situation. He was angry for being
left out. Leaving him out had caused him to think that he's ugly and
worthless. It led him to rape and destroyed others to make him a
deserving person. Darren is a human who was being manipulative by the society. He is
being unhappy with what he's doing, yet he needs this job to support
himself. The grocery store or the corporation uses people like him as a
"human puppet" to do what is asked because he didn't have other
choices. Therefore, in the end, it's a sample of being manipulative by
assh*les. Honey Mustard came back in the grocery store after it's mistaken
selected instead of a regular mustard jar. It announced the fact that
"the Great Beyond" does not exist. He would rather be committing
suicide than working for something that is not meaningful in life. This
character contains confusion in life. The pink gum is a personification of Steven Hawkings who told the truth
beyond the ability to comprehend for most people. Humans are national disasters. They cause the "earthquakes, hurricane,
etc." and kill foods. It's also the truth in reality because we cause a
global warming. Baby Salt is a drug that is seen food being alive. It may refer to why
people ate other humans when they were in high of baby salt. One moment where Frank bumped into a used condom at night time may
refer to the fact sex is a taboo and yet people still secretly doing
it. "The Great Beyond" is an outside of grocery store (heaven) where the
life after death is beautiful and a dream for everyone because the God
said so. But only God can control your fate, so you must abide by the
moral ethics, or you won't get the fate you want.God said marriage is part of the plan before death. Thus, it drives men
and women to objectify things what are think to be worth for romance
pairings. It's a creation of high in being the pervert and being
desired. In the last fifteen minutes, it's all about f*cking and sex to make fun
of a sex taboo because it's what we strive to live for. Think about it; what if we get rid of this taboo? Men don't have to be
"fancy, " and women don't have to be "glamor." F*ck what really are sexual ethics. Get over with these at one point,
so, we can drive to do that is based on something more important than
solely around sex.
