7
"Before We Go": The independent film you didn't know you needed this Valentine's day

"Before We Go" is an unexpected gem in the countless independent
romances featured on Netflix this valentine's season. This film
highlights the softer side of America's favorite hero Chris Evans, who
starred as the main actor, producer, and debuted his talents as a
director. The film features two strangers struggling with relationship
problems on their own who by coincidence find each other at their
greatest time of need. The movie portrays romance and relationships
that aren't just about sex and attraction, something that is overrated
in the romance genre right now.The film manages the heartwarming tone of a traditional romance film,
despite a plot based on heartbreak. The warm connection of the
characters really boosts the overall feeling of the film. The subtle
romance creates a hopeful and heartfelt experience that overcomes the
underlying sad tones. The quick-moving nature of the plot made the film
exciting and grasping to the audience. A subtle, yet vital, part of the
light tone is the quirkiness of the characters, that makes a fun and
innocent feeling, such as the characters pretend phone calls to their
past selves.The film went in an interesting direction for a romance movie, in that
the movie isn't about sex or attraction. The romance between the
characters isn't sexual, it's emotional. The characters are both
experiencing a difficult time emotionally and their deep trust,
honesty, and connection help them learn from each other and overcome
their challenges and in the process built a deep relationship.A struggle Evans faced as director was building the all the dynamics of
the film without overwhelming the plot line. The film takes place over
the course of one night and the movie runs for just over an hour.
During that short period, the plot rapidly jumps between locations with
little transition, making for a disorienting experience. The
overwhelming number of locations was evident in the three wedding
scenes, two train station scenes, a bus station scene, and many other
scenes. The story got real confusing quickly.The actors gave a stunning performance; the feel couldn't have been
more natural. As expected Evans played his role as Nick with grace and
depth. Alice Eve, too, was spectacular in her role as Brook. The acting
styles between her and Evans merged well and together created the
perfect, cute romantic feeling of the film. "Before We Go" is an unexpectedly well-made film that reached levels of
the emotional spectrum that traditional romance typically doesn't dare
to go, and brings a heartwarming look at the struggle and growth of the
characters. The plot is dense but still, the movie is an enjoying
experience. This film is a Valentine's day must see.
