9
Proof Positive

This film is highly recommended.You can certainly tell it's Oscar time when all the more dignified and
personal projects inundate the movie houses in hopes of capturing the
gold. For most of the other nine months, we get lesser efforts and big
blockbuster spectacles to fill-in until late October arrives. Then,
it's time to get serious about our cinema choices. The Theory of
Everything is one such film. It carries its pedigree with style and
class, even if it is a rather conventional biopic in disguise, with its
main character suffering through a debilitating disease while finding
the stamina to go on.With a very literate screenplay by Anthony McCarten and accomplished
direction by James Marsh, the film tells the story of famed scientist
Stephen Hawking and his battle with ALS. It also concentrates on his
relationship with his supportive and loving wife, Jane.Love will conquer all. Or so it should. But the horrors of this disease
and the hardships they face seem unsurmountable. We see the couple
meet, fall in love, marry, have children, and grow weary of each other.
Stephen achieves adoration, fame, and fortune while Jane takes a back
seat to her caregiver role and bringing up the family, amid the tears
and frustration they face on a daily basis. One immediately empathizes
with these characters due to their tragic situations.The two leads are splendid and their acting is peerless. Felicity Jones
plays Jane. Her role may be less showy and far more understated, but
the actress is perfect at showing Jane's endurance and strength in the
subtlest of ways. Eddie Redmayne is Stephen Hawking and his performance
is literally trans-formative. (He must have learned his craft from tons
of research about Hawking and creative influence from Daniel Day
Lewis.) This is an impressive physical performance, from his black horn
rimmed glasses to his walking cane and distorted posture. Both will
receive well-earned accolades for their memorable work. Fine supporting
work by Charlie Cox as Jonathan, their loyal friend, and Simon McBurney
as Stephen's father add more clarity to the film.As with most biographical films, one sees the rise and fall of the
protagonist before it arrives. This film follows that tries-and-true
formula. But Marsh's direction compensates for the linear structure and
predictability of the story. The director relies heavily on his actors'
subtle actions to tell more about their characters than the mere words
they speak. He also wisely shows Hawking's point of view by angling the
camera range from a lower stance or keeping it stationary to reinforce
the characters' immobility. The final scene, recapping Hawking's life
in reverse, beautifully sums up Stephen's life full circle in the most
visual of terms.But The Theory of Everything is foremost a love story. The film
desperately wants to be a crowd-pleaser with an uplifting message of
inspiration, even when the reality and truth of their actual lives is
bleaker than it appears on screen. The film glosses over some factual
content to play up the human drama of this pair of young lovers. It
skillfully manipulates its audience to wallow in the heartbreak.
Director Marsh successfully capture the pangs of young love and
bittersweet romance in this emotionally involving film. The Theory of Everything is an immensely satisfying film with stand-out
acting and skilled direction. The proof is right there on the screen,
even if the facts are slightly askew. GRADE: B+Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.comANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com
