1
Even at 3 hours 40 minutes, time flies by watching The 1956 Ten Commandments movie, and absolutely    C r a w l s    by watching this one...

I could Not have been more disappointed in "Exodus Gods and Kings."
It's impossible for me to not compare it with "The Ten Commandments"
since it's exactly the same story, so here goes..."The Ten Commandments" movie of 1956 at 3 hours and 40 minutes, with No
CGI, and No battle scenes is easily 10 times more enjoyable than
"Exodus Gods and Kings."Every moment of "The Ten Commandments" is so captivating with top
quality story, scripts, acting, directing, sets, costumes, visual
effects, and music that time really flies by when watching it. "Exodus
Gods and Kings," however, is so desperately dull, with horrible script,
cheap looking sets, lack luster performances, I can honestly say that
it's the worst movie I have seen in a very long time. Even the music was forgettable (except when it sounded like the
original "Stargate" movie soundtrack, which it did a lot of times). And don't even get me started on the visual effects in "Exodus Gods and
Kings." The plagues are done so well they're stomach churning, but they
don't even happen in the way that the original Bible stories say they
happened. But the ONE scene in the entire movie that's really
spectacular CGI is directed so completely without thought that it makes
no sense whatsoever...SMALL SPOILER ALERT: The water in the Red Sea is rapidly receding to
the right, sort of like what happens before a Tsunami. It only takes a
few minutes for that area of the Red Sea to be shallow enough for the
thousands of recently freed Hebrews to start walking across. This is
disappointing as far as visuals go, but does make sense so far. Then
just before the giant wave comes we see absolutely spectacular storm
clouds and multiple tornadoes and waterspouts develop. These visual
effects are some of the best ever in the history of CGI, but the
tornadoes didn't actually do anything at all in this scene. They did
not pull the water away in the first place, like the storm clouds
created by God (or spaceships) did in "The Ten Commandments." They
simply appeared in the distance for no reason, just before the huge
Tsunami wave crashed down on Pharaoh's soldiers. To show the outright sloppiness of this movie again, in scene after
scene there are one or two guys spying on Moses, and nothing ever
happens as a result. It's a big set up to a big nothing. LAST BUT NOT LEAST: If you happen to be a fan of the "Ancient Aliens"
show or believe in Hebrew Mysticism you will be sorely disappointed in
"Exodus Gods and Kings." Mostly because, the only reason Moses sees a
burning bush or talks to God the first time is that he just got conked
on the head by a huge rock. Then, every time a miracle happens, this
sassy little boy (who is just now angry at the Egyptian Pharaohs after
400 years of Hebrew enslavement) is the one doing the miracles, not
even through Moses. Moses really does none of the miracles in this
movie. He has a sword through most of it, and never even carries a
staff. In the Bible, when Moses came down from Mt. Sinai his face was shining.
This is important no matter what your beliefs are. They at least touch
on this in "The Ten Commandments" but in "Exodus Gods and Kings," the
only thing that happens on Mt. Sinai is that the little boy dictates
the ten commandments to Moses as he carves them onto the rock tablets.
And they don't even show him actually saying any of them. He's just
sitting there watching Moses work. Finally, I have to say that it would have been very nice to actually
see the Ark of the Covenant in a movie about Moses. Moses is shown
riding with presumably the Ark in a basket on a veiled wagon, but still
the only time in the history of the movies that we get to see the
actual Ark is in an Indiana Jones movie, which is also easily 10 times
better than "Exodus Gods and Kings."So if you feel like seeing a Biblical movie or a movie about ancient
Egypt, definitely buy or rent "The Ten Commandments" (1956). Also, "The
Robe" (1953) is not a Bible story, but is the best portrayal of true
Christian principles of faith and unconditional love that I have ever
seen. Both have amazing, high quality stereo and surround sound for
their time. Their original soundtrack albums are two of the all time
best in the history of Hollywood also.In fact, as inaccurate as it may be, I even found the 2008 adventure
"10,000 BC" hugely more enjoyable than "Exodus Gods and Kings."
Likewise the 1994 sci-fi film "Stargate."
