1
The Lost Art of Script Writing

This is the first review I have ever contributed to IMDb which I use on
a regular basis to inform my viewing choices but I feel compelled to
write it as the high ratings are so unjustified I feel I have a duty to
share my experience and balance the 7.4 (!!!!) score. I went into this
with high expectations... every ingredient was present to potentially
make this my new favourite movie, unfortunately the script and
narrative (if they originally  had one at all) failed to deliver.My main problem was the narrative. The story takes place over a few
decades and follows the efforts of Fawcett to discover the "Lost City
of Z". He embarks on 3 "perilous" expeditions going up the Amazon but
no sense of danger or suffering is at any point conveyed by the
narrative. The 3 trips are each expedited under 20 minutes of screen time. We
have absolutely no idea of the time involved (apparently the
expeditions lasted a few years each) nor any feeling towards the
hardships the crew faces. To make matters worse, new crew members keep
appearing out of nowhere and at some point even a horse!! which was
nowhere to be seen on the raft in previous scenes. If this was not
enough.... the raft keeps going downstream when they are supposed to go
UPSTREAM, towards the source of the river.... oh well, I could have
lived with these inconsistencies if I had a character to root for.
Unfortunately we never feel any sympathy towards any of the
protagonists. The character development is non existent and not helped
by the fact the acting is very stiff at the best of time and downright
awful for most of the movie. I didn't find Charlie Hunnam convincing as
a Hell's Angel in SOA but he is seriously laughable as an English Army
officer. This absence of feeling and empathy is also to be experienced
towards the wife and children he leaves behind, every time he embarks
on one of those trips. We simply do not care for them.I obviously did not go into it expecting a new Fitzcarraldo or
Apocalypse Now but for a movie which should have dealt with a man's
obsessive doomed quest for a Lost City, the jungle and/or the river
should have been part and parcel of the movie, a character in itself,
an omnipresent entity. No such thing. The whole movie could have been
shot in a winter garden for all I saw... You never have the feeling you
are in the mud with the protagonists. The only feeling you experience
is one of utter detachment and an urge for the movie to finish as soon
as possible. Extremely disappointed. Do not believe the hype!
