4
28 Months Later For Morons

If a film is sold by a trailer it's this one . I've never read the
source novel but do know it is structured as reportage where the world
has been changed by a zombie infestation leading to a new geo-political
shape for the world so in many ways this is more of a prequel than an
adaptation . I did like Danny Boyle's genre shattering 28 DAYS LATER
and loved the sequel and unfortunately it looks like that franchise has
ended so in some ways this could be a surrogate 28 MONTHS LATER . Add
to this the trailers where the waves of infected storm barriers against
heavily armed soldiers and we've got a Zombie classic in the making
don't we ?No we don't because this is a film that gives the impression
that it was written and made by zombies From the outset we get something incomprehensible - the outbreak itself
. WWZ keeps the origins of the virus an enigma and right away this
damages the premise . At least in 28 DL the audience are afforded an
opening scene of the rage virus escaping and you're very quickly able
to buy in to this scenario . WWZ doesn't do this but an opening scene
alludes to a virus breaking out across the world via news reports . Cut
to scientist Brad Pitt driving his family in Philadelphia and finds
himself in a traffic jam . Within seconds people run screaming from
their cars as rabid zombies run everywhere This scene is mildly effective but there's a spanner in the works . Two
spanners actually . One is that's very clear that the incubation period
of this virus is a few seconds almost identical to that established in
28 DL . In reality such a violent virus would spread like wild fire but
the thing is it wouldn't be able to cross continents which renders the
later parts of the film as incomprehensible from a logic point of view
. Secondly you will find it impossible to buy in to this scenario . I
know I didn't but please feel free to ask questions As the film progresses Brad Pitt's scientist - and I won't call him by
his character name because he doesn't have a character - jumps on a
plane to South Korea then off to Israel where the Israelis have managed
to block out the infected by building a massive big wall " Wow that was quick Theo . The Israelis must be very good bricklayers
to build a wall when the infection has only existed for a couple of
days " Oh no because the Mossad chief got word from India a few week earlier
that the Indian army were fighting zombies . Before you ask it's never
revealed why the news media never got hold of this potential headline ,
nor is it revealed why when the rest of the world is battling Zombies
this unknown virus never got in to Israel The action scenes in Jerusalem are impressive from a spectacle point of
view but again lack internal continuity . Safe behind their wall the
Israelis let in refugees - while armies of Zombies swarm around outside
. Narrowly escaping the carnage Brad stops to amputate the hand of a
female IDF soldier whose just been bitten which defies credibility " But Theo you know these Israelis are tough nuts and women have to
endure pain and blood every month "Not in the same league as amputation though is it ? Then Brad phones
the UN who tell him that he must make his way to WHO research lab in
Wales . Don't ask why there's no nearer research centres between
Cardiff and Jerusalem . while on the aeroplane a Zombie that just
happened to be hiding in the cupboard jumps out and spreads the
infection leading to IDF girl to throw a grenade that causes the plane
to crash in Wales . So they have a short walk to the WHO research
centre " Wouldn't blood loss caused by getting your hand amputated make you
too weak to go for a short walk ? And wouldn't Britain being an island
make quarantine against the virus much easier ? I mean if the Israelis
managed it ? " Look sit down and shut up . I know this was a major plot point that the
rage virus couldn't escape from Britain in 28DL but if you think you
can write a better Hollywood screenplay join the 7 billion people
heading towards Hollywood right now . The last half hour involves more
idiotic plotting that rely on coincidence , good fortune and after
spending nearly every scene pointing out that the Zombies are attracted
to noise someone just has to shoot a gun . The film ends with a
solution to the problem which doesn't make the slightest bit of sense
but means the human race can now concentrate on wiping out the Zombies " But Theo won't the Zombies die of thirst ? " I said shut up . If anything about this film made any sense it have
been more than a loud dumb Summer blockbuster . You do notice that
everything about it seems to have commercial consideration . Brad Pitt
jumping all over the world meeting so many different nationalities does
seem a cynical attempt at audience identification . Likewise the very
obvious lack of blood and gore might supposedly attract people who fear
the post apocalypse / Zombie genre ( Hello Bob The Moo ) but they'll
notice the lack of intelligent plotting which severely damages the film
and gore hounds who enjoy blood and guts will be disappointed by the
extremely inoffensive nature of WWZ . Danny Boyle you're needed
