10
I haven't seen a horror movie this good in a while...

I just finished watching THE BLACKCOATS DAUGHTER.First, I had no idea what this film was about and didn't read any
reviews or watch any trailers. It is rare that I see a movie without
knowing anything about it. I recommend not looking into what this movie
is about before watching. It will be a pleasantly horrific surprise.
The cinematography and score give it an incredibly David Lynch mood
similar to Twin Peaks and very much film noir, and oh so unsettling.
The long camera stills on character's faces creates an uncomfortable
tension and an awkward closeness to what is happening in the film. I
felt like I was feeling what the characters were feeling and it was
really scary. I have to mention the score alone was incredibly eerie
which set the mood magnificently for this film. I felt the score was so
well-matched to what was happening in the film, almost to the same
degree as score of The Shining. In fact, the build up in this film
reminded me of a lot of The Shining.I like that every viewer can have a completely different experience
because the story line is a bit vague. Not to the point where you have
no idea what is going on, rather you are eagerly grasping every hint
thrown your way. I felt like I wanted to figure the plot out before it
was ultimately revealed and I kept trying but I didn't manage to which
was refreshing, especially because it wasn't a huge plot twist with a
crazy 180 degree unexpected turn. It made sense afterwards and I was
completely satisfied. This is a slow burn with a build-up of dread that quite literally gave
me anxiety. I think the pacing of this film might turn off some viewers
as there aren't many jump scares. It is so incredibly dark and ominous.
If I had seen this a couple weeks ago it would have made it into top
slot for sure. This movie psychologically scared (and probably scarred)
me and I have a feeling it will stick with me for quite some time. I am
still like, "what did I just watch?" And of course I watched it when I
was home aloneI think the negative reviews are by people who expected a lame horror
movie with jump scares where everything is spelled out for you and you
don't need to think much while watching.If you liked movies like "It Follows", "The Witch", and "Absentia" then
you'll probably love this.
