7
Grubby in a good way

This is another film adaptation of an Irvine Welsh novel that was
referred to as "unfilmable", although when reading the book when it
first came out I for one was struck by the tightness of the narrative
and the cinema-friendly focus on a single protagonist.The antihero in question is Bruce Robertson (James McAvoy), a dodgy
copper trying to make the most of a promotion opportunity by ruining
his rivals through a series of cruel intricate schemes. Meanwhile, his
mind is deteriorating, and he's haunted by flashbacks, waking dreams,
and humanoid livestock. The film is fairly faithful to the source, and
the changes (including some understandably blunted edges) are down to
the different artform.Irvine Welsh has said that McAvoy's performance is better than De
Niro's in Taxi Driver. I don't think this is a suitable comparison.
Scorsese's seminal feature was about a post-traumatic depression,
whereas Jon S. Baird's film is more manic. For me, the film Filth most
resembles is A Clockwork Orange. Like Kubrick's masterpiece, the entire
aesthetic is informed by the subjectivity of the central character. And
there are subtler nods: the use of classical music, the bleached
windows, Jim Broadbent's reinvention of the Deltoid character (a
probation officer then, a psychiatrist now), and the visual reference
to 2001: A Space Odyssey.Before the film's release, I wasn't convinced by the casting of McAvoy,
but after watching it I can safely say he's transformative – to capture
such bipolar savagery and the fear in a single facial expression is the
sign of a special performance. The supporting cast provides a colourful
blend of caricatures. Jamie Bell, Eddie Marsan and Imogen Poots all
make an impact in the few moments when McAvoy isn't dominating the
screen.For me, the dud notes concern the tone of the film. Sometimes Baird's
shifts between the schizoid black comedy of Robertson's outbursts and
his introspective guilt about his past are so sudden and sentimental
that their capacity to convince is lost in the (lack of) transition.
Part of this is down to Clint Mansell's disappointingly soft score,
whose tinkly piano and lifeless strings often feel incongruous, more
awkward than deliberate.But these minor issues don't detract from a powerful, funny, and
finally moving depiction of mental disintegration. To say that it's the
best Welsh adaptation since Trainspotting may not be saying much – so
I'll say instead that it's a very good film in its own right.
