5
An average comedy that doesn't hit the levels of the first film

After seeing the first ted film I was hugely excited for this film
while also being a bit nervous because sequels of comedies are never
usually as good and this one follows that tradition. The premise of
this film sees Ted and John attempting to get Ted's civil rights so he
and Tammy Lynn can have a baby. Now Seth McFarlane plays the voice of
Ted and just like the first film he is great in this film as the voice
of this foul mouthed teddy bear. Some of the things he says is
hilarious and he even makes you care about this bear because he is so
lovable. Mark wahlberg returns as John and once again he and Ted's
chemistry is off the charts and is probably the best part of the film.
Also wahlberg shows off his comedic chops in this film and it really
does work. Amanda seyfried joins the cast in this film and she was also
really good in this film and made me laugh. She also fits in really
well in this film with John and Ted. However, I didn't feel the
character of Tammy Lynn was that good and I just didn't feel like her
character was funny in this film which didn't help. Also for some weird
reason Giovanni ribisi is back in his role from the first film and it
felt completely forced and completely unnecessary. Now what I liked
about the first film is that even though it was a comedy it had a heart
felt story to it that makes you care about the characters. This film is
all over the place with its narrative structure and I felt like the
story was really forgotten about and nobody cared about it. It could
have been interesting but it didn't have the substance that it should
have done. There was allot of funny dialogue in the film that will
really make you laugh but there is also some dialogue that falls flat
and you will just be sat there bored waiting for the next good joke
that comes around. There is some really funny scenarios in this film
with some good cameos but once again it just feels like it is a bunch
of comedy skits and nothing to go with the cameos. Overall this is an
average comedy that you won't really care to see again.
