8
'Sicario' Soars with Benicio del Toro and Emily Blunt in tow!

Feverishly satisfying with pulse-pounding energy that's sure to give
your heart its full day's work, Denis Villenueve's masterful "Sicario"
with Emily Blunt, Benicio del Toro, and Josh Brolin is an edge of your
seat thriller that exemplifies the finest parts of the action genre.
Filled with mystery, suspense, and outstanding performances,
Villenueve's direction, along a tight script by Taylor Sheridan, brings
a much needed sense of technique and art that's been sorely missing
from the 2015 movie year."Sicario" tells the story of an idealistic FBI agent names Kate
(Blunt), who is enlisted by an elected government task force to aid in
the escalating war against drugs at the border area between the U.S.
and Mexico. With the "guidance" of a mysterious agent Alejandro (Del
Toro) and her superior Matt (Brolin), and influx of intrigue and morals
will shake Kate to her very core.First and foremost, "Sicario" breathes new life into contemporary
cinematography, as produced by no less than the great Roger Deakins. A
vessel for God's eye on the world, Deakins ignites the fire of his
vision, capturing some of the finest shots seen this decade. His use of
shadows, CGI, and choices in which to convey and portray emotions is
downright genius. Becoming essentially another character in the story,
Deakins gives a master's class on cinematography for future craftsmen
and women to behold. It's a work that will surely land him his
thirteenth Oscar nomination.Above that, we are treated to fantastic and awards worthy performances.
Emily Blunt, as seen in nearly everything she touches, shows herself as
one of the most interesting and endearing actresses working today. Her
courage and vulnerability for Kate is personified by Blunt's ability to
connect with the character's soul. She lays into Kate calmly, echoing
great performances like Jessica Chastain in "Zero Dark Thirty" but with
more reserve.Benicio Del Toro is downright magnificent. As Alejandro, he delivers
his best performance since "21 Grams." A dedicated sensation that calls
back to all types of performances such as Javier Bardem in "No Country
for Old Men" or Gene Hackman in "The French Connection." You won't be
able to take your eyes off him. Josh Brolin utilizes every ounce of his
charm that has made him one of the most sought after actor's in the
business. A memorable, though understated and undervalued character
that you do want more clarity about. Other cast members like Jon
Bernthal, Jeffrey Donovan, Victor Garber, and especially Daniel Kaluuya
are given their fair share of opportunity, which all take well.As a technical endeavor, "Sicario" also succeeds in its vibrantly
living sound design, and illustrious score by Academy Award nominee
Jóhann Jóhannsson. The two are married in a blistering union of tension
and heart palpitations. Editor Joe Walker is a shining star behind the
scenes as well, thanks to his precision and patience in bringing a
scene right to the edge, and knowing when and where to take it next.
It's his most innovative work yet, even surpassing his nominated work
on "12 Years a Slave."Goes without saying that "Sicario" is Denis Villenueve's best work to
date. Coming from someone that thoroughly enjoyed "Prisoners" and
tolerated "Enemy," this is his most accessible and compelling piece. If
anything, he's just so damn exciting to watch these days, as he locates
strange vehicles for actor's and craftsmen to come together. He takes
on a genre that may feel familiar, like the drug cartel, but makes it
feel new and smart."Sicario" is hands down one of the year's best films.
