8
Will take some time to process

There's a reasonable argument to say that SILENCE is one of Martin
Scorsese's better movies. The talk is that it was a passion project of
his for decades, finally being released in all it's artistic endeavors
and mysteries. I suppose someone else could argue the opposite: that
this is a story full of brutality and despair without the signature
style of the aged director. I think I'm falling right on the middle on
this one. This is surely one of the year's most powerful stories, and
yet I have to admit it left me cold.The story follows two priests from Portugal (Andrew Garfield and Adam
Driver) who venture into hostile Japanese country in search of their
mentor, Father Ferreira (Liam Neeson), who has abandoned his Christian
faith. Some chalk it up to mere rumors. These two young ministers take
the journey to find out for themselves.What begins as a fairly traditional story ventures into the heart of
Japan in the 16th Century with a sharp attention to both detail and
horror. This is less a story of a search for one man as it is an
odyssey into the despair found in conflicting religious beliefs. Father
Rodrigues (Andrew Garfield) holds hope that Ferreira is alive while
also working to convert as many locals under cover of darkness. Upon
landing on the shores of Japan (smuggled in on small fishing boats from
China), he encounters villages of faithful Christians who worship in
secret. For them, the arrival of Rodrigues and Father Garupe (Driver)
is confirmation of their beliefs. Through language barriers, it seems
that God is always present.As we delve further into the country towards Nagasaki (where Ferreira
is said to be held), the two priest break off on separate journeys.
Rodrigues, though oftentimes alone, is shadowed by a Japanese recluse
named Kichijiro, a drunk who once betrayed his faith in order to spare
his life (he witnessed the execution of his entire family) but returns
to the faith time again in order to make Confession and amends with the
Lord. Rodrigues continues to absolve him, and yet this is the slow
unraveling of an aspect of this story: do the Japanese really
comprehend the religion in the same way Westerners do?There are three people who make this movie better than average: Andrew
Garfield surely gives one of the year's best performances as a man
trapped in his own personal Hell, forced to grapple between martyrdom
and eternal damnation. It's a strong year for Garfield, getting
accolades and Oscar buzz for his other leading role in 'Hacksaw Ridge.'
Trust me, this is the better performance. Second is the skill of Martin
Scorsese, who slowly paints a portrait of a time long forgot with such
attention to tone. It's a horrifying and at times morbid story to sit
through, but there was never a moment I found myself any less than
fully-focused and contemplative.Third is a surprise, a breakthrough performance by a Japanese actor
named Issey Ogata who gives without a doubt one of the year's most
memorable performances. Throughout the film the Christians living in
Japan are routinely inspected by samurai officials who intend to hunt
down and capture any found citizens in violation of the law. One such
official is Inoue Masashige (Ogata) who treats the job with a certain
flair. Constantly waving a fan and with an ear to ear smile, this is a
performance that steps above the rest of the cast by perfectly
encapsulating the braggadocious nature of Japanese law without missing
a beat. It's a winking devil performance that I hope the Oscars won't
look over.'Silence' is at times hard to palpate and yet rewards the audience for
it's patience. Whether or not this film can be interpreted as being pro
or anti-Catholic is maybe not the ultimate message of this film. While
the final act delves into a horrifyingly-dark arena, consider the final
shot before the credits begin to role (I won't spoil it). In such a
brutal era with antiquated customs, isn't there still hope left to be
found?
