10
The best British movie I've saw in a long time!

I went to see this movie at a screening. I have to admit, I went into
this movie not knowing anything about Alan Turing and Enigma, but I
love movies based on true events; especially those about the history of
our country. Despite not knowing anything about Mr. Turing or the events of his
life, as soon as I left the movie theater, I went home and looked him
up and spent the next few hours learning of his life, everything he did
for this country and the invention of what we now call 'the computer'.I want to start by saying that Benedict Cumberbatch in this movie is
outstanding. He plays Alan Turing perfectly; his accent, his movements
and just the way he plays the character on screen is beautiful. I can
honestly say that this is the performance of his career! The movie focuses on different aspects of his life: it shows him and
his team trying to break Enigma, it shows Young Turing during his time
at boarding school, and the events after the war. There's a quote at the beginning of the movie: "are you paying
attention?". Throughout the movie, that's what I did. It's all that I
could do because the story and the acting kept my eyes glued to the
screen and I couldn't take them away. It's emotional, it's exciting and
it is truly heartbreaking in some moments. It was a very comedic movie,
too. There were some scenes that had me in fits of laughter and that's
what makes it a beautiful script; despite the movie being based on the
darkest days of World War 2, they added comedy into it which brought
the movie alive. I remember getting home and after researching Alan's life, I wanted to
go back to the cinema and watch the movie again. It's rarely that
happens to me but when this comes out in November, I will be straight
to the cinema and purchasing a ticket to watch it. I've heard reviewers mentioning that this film doesn't focus enough on
Turing's homosexuality. Now, be that as it may, it focus' enough on the
subject. Remember: this movie is about his mind, about the man himself.
He was a genius! This is the best British movie that I've saw in a long time, and it's
probably one of the best movies that I've ever had the pleasure of
watching, period. I would recommend going to watch this movie when it comes out because
it will take you into the world of Mr. Turing and the struggles and
successes he made in his short life.
