5
Searching for Jobs. No Jobs here. This Jobs did pretty okay still.

This movie was no 2010's Social Network, but Jobs did an alright job.
This movie seem to be the walking talking movie commercial that Apple
need. It seems like an extended Apple ad. It was too much Apple to chew
enough in my opinion. At less, Social Network gave us a break from
praising Facebook because Zuckerberg is portray as a successful man who
also suffer from it. He betray his friends to get where he is or his
friends end up betraying him because of his success. This movie praise
Jobs way too much, and act lie every success that Apple had was because
of Steve Jobs. In my opinion, he wasn't the brilliant mind that the
media portray him to be. He was just narcissism enough to run a
business savvy, but he did get a lot of help from a lot of people. In
my opinion, Steve Wozniak (Josh Gad) deserves more credit than Jobs. He
is the one that pretty much create Apple. Still, this movie wasn't as
good as 1999's TV mini movie, Pirates of Silicon Valley that follow
Steve Jobs and Bill Gate's career even better. In my opinion, Jobs was
alright biographical flick. The movie follows Steve Job's life from
1974 while a student at Reed College to the introduction of the iPod in
2001. I guess, the film didn't care about his success with the IPHONE,
and IPAD. Nor does this film want to tackle the pancreas neuroendocrine
tumor that he suffer from in his later life. It doesn't even mention
what we was going between him getting fired and him getting rehired by
Apple. Where is NeXT? NeXT was very important in the telling of Steve
Jobs life. It was his lowest point. They didn't even mention Pixar for
crying out loud! One of the reason why Steve Jobs got his job back at
Apple. It even cut out most of the best part about Apple. The rival
between Apple and Microsoft was cut to a 3 minute talk. No, Bill Gates,
no anything. The film seem to be missing, a good chuck of his life
right there. I would love to know how he create those items. Sadly, the
film directed by Joshua Michael Stern doesn't do that. I wish this
movie was created as a mini-series rather than this to focus more of
those things that wasn't mention in the film. The film was written by
Matt Whiteley and had Steve Jobs portrayed by Ashton Kutcher. While,
I'm not the biggest Ashton Kutcher fan, I think a lot of criticize
about his acting might be a bit harsh. Honestly, I think a lot of
criticize is coming from his work outside of this film. If you going to
be a critic, at less, tell them why Ashton Kutcher didn't work for the
role. In my opinion, he wasn't bad in the film, but he wasn't good,
too. I just found the whole thing about him not wearing shoes a bit
odd. At less, Ashton Kutcher put some research into his role, and did
the same diet as Jobs. He went to the ER because of that. That shows
you that he was serious about his role. The meadow scene was laughable
and show Ashton Kutcher limited ranged. The real Steve Jobs was a bit
of jerk, and I like how the film hints about it. People follow him like
sheep and if you disagree with him. He will fired you or sue you. I
don't know, how watching a jerk is appealing. I think people are
romanticized him way too much. I think most people coming in to see
this movie, thinks that way. To watch the 1984 ad on the big screen,
and think about how Apple is now. Apple has become what it wanted to
fight against. A censoring, all powerful organization that control the
market. In my opinion, Apple is way too big. Apple outsource
manufacturing jobs to Asia to make their products for a cheaper price,
and we buy it. Rather, Apple only gives short term goals servable jobs
to Americans. If, they gave more long term manufacturing jobs here.
Maybe, I would praise Apple more. There is no need to praise an
American company when there is a period of high unemployment here in
the US. In my harsh opinion, the film was like watching Thomas Edison
take credit for the light bulb and other products, when in truth, other
people made it in his workshop. This movie is the fan boys of Apple
products. In my opinion, the Apple products are a bit overrated, often
rip off or stolen. The pacing of the film was pretty bad. A good
example is how Jobs didn't accepted his daughter Lisa (Annnika Bertea)
beforehand and then the film cut to later on his life, without
explaining anything, Jobs accepted his daughter in his life. How on
earth did that get resolved? It's never explain. The movie need to talk
about his complexities more. It only hints. It fails to connect with
people. I do hope Aaron Sorkin do end up picking up the Steve Jobs
bio-pic project and writes better than this movie. I found no jobs
here.
