8
Don't Ask, Just Smile

The Man in Men in Black 3 should've gone back in time to erase Part II,
instead.For… this third MIB film, this absolute make-up movie, à la Indiana
Jones and the Last Crusade, was the sequel the second one should've
been. Mercifully, it did make-believe the second chapter didn't exist
and only spoke of events in the original.Was this movie really necessary? Actually, I'm not the one asking that
– I've heard that question multiple of times leading up to the release,
but I will be the one answering. 90% yes and 10% probably. No is not
the answer.While not perfect as it certainly had script and direction problems and
though most of the jokes worked, there were a half of dozen scenes of
un-fun silliness and overkill that made it tad cloudy. That said, it
was a lot more fun than not and again, if this is the final one, it was
a nice closure…way more than that joke of a movie the middle segment
was.And besides all that, I had a good time. The finale was enjoyable –
although it really channeled (2006) Casino Royale's opening and the
action was present and from the one cast member I wanted it the most
from: Tommy Lee Jones. Obviously, it's not really him and that's
apparent in most the movie considering it was Young K (Josh Brolin.)
Oh, and by the way, he was not just spot-on, I never, ever thought that
was anyone but a young Jones.The movie's opening 10 or so minutes were apparently more successful
than all of previously released Lockout, and this leads a bad alien to
go back in time to kill Men in Black agent K and in turn, agent/partner
J back, as well, to save him. And, the world, of course.That's the best and easiest synopsis I can give, and of course, there's
more to the story, but its best you just sit back and let the men
entertain you.I don't want to give this my highest praise – it's doubtful this will
land anywhere near my 2012 top ten list, but it's fun companion the
first one. Nowhere as close to freshness or quality, but, again, like
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, it's a fun ride that should be seen
following part one.(Notice how I didn't include part two in that statement. Neither should
anyone else.)
