3
The Amazing Spider-Man Movie Has Already Been Made

I don't have an argument that Spider-Man's origin story didn't need to
be remade for I've seen plenty of very decent to mediocre reboots
before. But, what makes this a worthless remake was that it backtracked
on all that was good before it.Heart, soul, good soundtrack, excellent score, acting, chemistry,
heroism, humor and quotable dialogue were present in the original
Spider-Man movies – and yeah, even #3. This movie lacked ALL of those.
Heck, it even deleted one of the main characters and often hilarious:
J. Johan Jameson. Shame.I was even willing to over look the obvious first hour or so that
inevitably retold the same old story of pansy Parker, a love interest,
the bullies, the Aunt & Uncle, the spider bite, the transformation and
the first try-outs. Without anyone (and I guess me now) spoiling that,
we all knew that was coming. But, what I didn't foresee was how blah it
all was going to be. How boring and trite.And please…PLEASE… do not let the advertisements fool you into filling
a seat for a movie you've seen before: "The Untold Story" was about as
revealing as finding out about Ellen Ripley's all-but irrelevant
daughter in the director's cut of Aliens.What the movie is trying to tell us is that Spider-Man is a hero, that
he loves Gwen Stacy and that, despite how great the Hulk looked in The
Avengers, a giant lizard man can look real on screen using 1996's
technology. No apologies: I didn't buy any one of these things the
script displayed. In fact, it showed so much and yet, so much felt left
out. So many story lines began and either faded or we're given half-ass
explanations.Don't get me wrong; I didn't full-on hate on The Amazing Spider-Man. Of
the approximately 20 minutes (of 136) of screen time Spidey was on the
screen, he looked…decent, albeit the shots still looked like deleted
scenes from the previous series. And even though Tobey Maguire spun
webs around Andrew Garfield's Parker, he still did a good job. I will
even give it to both the script and Garfield: Spider-Man's signature
sarcasm was funnier this time around.Is it redundant to give the synopsis since I already reviewed the
10-year-old original? Yes, except this time around instead of a green
bad guy from Oscorp being human, this one had a green bad guy from
Oscorp being a laughable CGI Godzilla offspring. Oh, and as much as I
love Emma Stone, her character, Gwen Stacy, first introduced in
Spider-Man 3, was so lifeless, you'd have to miss Kirsten Dunst's Mary
Jane.I simply cannot recommend this movie. Again, of the 136 minutes, 40
were good, but that did not outweigh the bad-3-D effects or 96 other
slow-paced, unoriginal and uninspiring minutes.
