8
Visually Amazing

Jupiter Ascending, quite literally, is one of the most beautiful movies
I have ever seen. The visual effects and CGI were top notch; nothing
looked unfinished. Everything from explosions and action scenes, to
space ships and settings, this movie had all the "eye candy" one could
want. The fighting sequences were executed perfectly; each one
thrilling in its own way. Each singular planet or world was so stunning
and precisely crafted, that one could almost feel themselves in it. The
Wachowskis have made a truly gorgeous universe in their latest movie. Michael Giacchino's music fits each scene very nicely whether it is a
fast paced chase scene, or a quiet and thoughtful scene. It has a
mysterious and almost hollow beauty to it, which fits this movie
perfectly.Alas, not everything in this movie is as good as the visuals. Channing
Tatum and Mila Kunis give surprisingly good performances for the most
part but some of their acting is just off. The other principal actors
give good performances as well but all the acting could have been taken
a notch higher. Story and Plot is where this movie is weakest though. It has so much
ambition and intricacy that it is to much to fit in a two hour long
movie. Even though two hours is a good length, the plot just wants to
keep on going and therefor the loose ends are never quite tied up. The
plot is never really explained to its entirety and while one can figure
out the general idea, it is hard to go deep into it. It has huge
potential but rather than using it, it discards it. I give it credit
for being fairly original though, and not a sequel, reboot, or based of
a graphic novel or book. Originality is a great thing and the
Wachowskis do it best. Overall Jupiter Ascending lacked plot depth and great acting abilities,
but it won it all back with groundbreaking visuals. Even though many
more big movies are coming out in 2015, this one would be one of the
best for all we know. It may not be everyone's piece of cake, but it
sure is a fun sci-fi adventure that shouldn't be forgotten.
