1
Love Alien? Don't watch this film

I just saw this film last night and the travesty is still fresh in my
mind. First up, every negative review on IMDb is 100% accurate. I wont
therefore reiterate what has already been said, and said well, by many
distressed fans of the original Alien film.I didn't read anything about the movie before going in. I didn't even
know it was a prequel to the Alien film. I thought I'd surprise myself
for a change. I found myself laughing at a movie that had less
scientific integrity than Star Trek and soon realised the target
audience age was probably somewhere between 12-20. All the way through
I kept thinking what a shameless rehashing of Alien film concepts this
was and that Ridley Scott must be hard up for some cash. Worse was that
some primary elements of the story reminded me of other films (i.e
Stanley Kubrick's 2001). Then, it happened. Towards the end of the film
it became obvious with out any doubt that it was a prequel to Alien. My
laughter turned to crying and I realised something cherished in my life
had just been taken away from me.This is a story that should never have been told. The origins of the
derelict ship, the 'Space Jockey' (or Engineer as it's now known), and
more importantly the Alien creature, was part of the mystery of Alien
and gave the film its soul. I watch Alien at least once a year and
enjoy not knowing - it's a critical ingredient to the story. Our
imagination is left to run wild at the possibilities.The last time I had a gut reaction like this was when Star Wars episode
I revealed what the 'Force' was. Great. I really needed to know that.
And I'm sure many of us of a certain vintage remember the horror of
Highlander II unfolding and the attempt at a back-story that couldn't
possibly work no matter how hard we all tried (and I was about 15
then). And these films are hardly in the same genre. What conceited,
arrogant writer thinks they can possibly pull of such a task?And that's another good point I haven't seen mentioned yet: the
back-story doesn't work. Take a look at the Space Jockey in Alien and
you'll see it is much larger and doesn't look at all human (go and
google it). Its sternum connects to its forehead! And would the Alien
creature/'Space Jockey' back-story, if it had to be told, likely to
have involved humans? I don't think so. They had no right to make this movie. They had no right to tread on
what is sacred ground for those of us that admire Alien.I'm very surprised at Ridley Scott. I can only assume he needed to see
another zero at the end of his bank account. what else could have
possibly motivated him to urinate on his own masterpiece?
