2
The Dictator...1 out of 4 Skittles

General Aladeen (Sacha Baron Cohen)the harsh dictator of the fake
country of Wadiya, claims the world's worst political figures as best
friends, admits that the real Bin Laden is currently living in his
guest house, and has no problem calling for the execution of anyone who
mildly inconveniences him. General Aladeen makes his way to America to
defend himself to the United Nations about his pursuit to construct
weapons of mass destruction, but ends up running for his life on the
streets of New York after an attempted assassination against his life
goes awry.The premise sounds like a winner in the current political world, yet
the actual product doesn't live up to the hype of Cohen's reputation.
Cohen became a comedic force with his gut busting Borat in 2006 and
added to his legacy with 2009's Bruno. His comedic style works best
when it's natural, and those around him aren't in on the joke. The
Dictator sadly comes across as the exact opposite. It felt staged,
scripted, forced and worst of all it wasn't very funny.The talented cast of Ben Kingsley and John C. Reilly are severely
underused, and a pathetic attempt at a love story between the general
and the kind of woman he has despised his entire life, a politically
correct hippy owner of an organic world market (played by Anna Faris)
only plays as weak writing.There are a few laughs to be had, probably the biggest being the
montage of the general learning how to self gratify himself intercut
with footage of majestic bald eagles soaring through the air. Cohen's
hilarious rendition of Dr. Dre's 'The Next Episode' with the general
singing "Aladeen motherfuc%er!" will find itself on more than a few
Ipod playlist.I'm also sure a few of the movie's lines will be quoted by adolescent
middle school aged boys and douchebag frat dudes alike, but for the
most part The Dictator is a major dud, and a huge step back from
Cohen's previous films. It left me longing for the days of Borat
offending the world one rodeo at a time.
