9
Moab (Mother of all Box-Office Bombs)

These days, we live in a world where most things are terrible and don't
make any sense. Yet, a film like Mother! can still come along and
disgust audiences. A film so off-putting, Rex Reed declared it "The
worst film of the century". Make no mistake, Mother! is a profoundly
polarizing film. But that is only because it went mainstream. It stars
mainstream actors. It's distributed by Paramount. In recent years, the
art-house and the multiplex have never crossed paths. But as the era of
the blockbuster fades away, it was only a matter of time for Hollywood
to return back to it's roots. To bring us back to the late 1960's,
where most films meant something. Films that grab you. Films that push
serious boundaries. I rarely leave a theater shaken. But Mother! did
just that. It is a beautiful, terrifying assault on your senses.Jennifer Lawrence and Javier Bardem play a lovely couple. Bardem is a
struggling poet, while Lawrence tends to her house obsessively.
Everything seems fine on the surface. What's that, you ask? The house
has a heart! I admit the deed! Tear up the planks! Here, here! It's the
beating of his hideous heart! ... and scene. Thank you for indulging
me. No seriously, the house has a heart.. and internal organs. It's a
living entity. I heard of the phrase "Home is where the heart is" but
this is ridiculous. Is it? Lawrence plays someone that wants to be a
mother to something. Her house? What happens when adoring fans come
rushing in to see Bardem? Unwelcome visitors all! They wreck the house
and impede on Lawrence's hard work. This must not go on. To fill the
void, Bardem and Lawrence conceive a child. As the days go on, the
guest list becomes bigger and bigger. By the film's midpoint, the house
becomes a small city of thieves and squatters. After that, I must not
share anymore. Because if you're already confused by what I'm telling
you.. you don't know what confused is, my friend.How does one interpret Mother! It's the quintessential
art-house/midnight movie. Therefore, anything is plausible. Aronofsky
intended it that way. He juggles many concepts and critiques about life
itself. Motherhood, paranoia, fame, claustrophobia, selfishness, lust,
rage, war, peace, religion, gender, history.. Mother! is whatever you
want it to be and more. If you know that going in, this will be a
breeze. If you don't, you will loathe every second of this film and I
won't blame you. It is a lot to swallow. The climax of the picture is
well orchestrated insanity. Arguably, the most intense sequence of
events captured on screen since Children of Men. By comparison, Requiem
for a Dream is almost entirely palpable. You sit back in your seat and
think "Enough already. This is too much. Wow. It's not stopping. Please
stop.". But that is precisely the point. Aronofsky does not let up
until you are mentally drained from watching. But at least to ease some
of the pain, you see a lot of Jennifer Lawrence's face, up-close. Most
of the film is on her face. In real life, she is in a relationship with
Aronofsky. Coincidence? No, not a coincidence. This is the mark of a
filmmaker madly in love with his star. On an emotional level, that
shows.Mother! is not a film to go into blind.. but that certainly helps the
experience. Polarizing, disturbing films are not crowd pleasures by any
stretch, but that's never been an area that bothers me. Films like
these fascinate me. Their lack of decorum fascinates me. The reactions
from the audience fascinate me. On Lars Von Trier's best day, he
couldn't have conjured a film like Mother! .. and if he did, he
would've have let it be seen in a shopping mall.
