7
Messier, for sure, but still plenty of "Avengers" fun

The task of bringing together Earth's mightiest heroes took Joss Whedon
into uncharted territory with 2012's "The Avengers," and, despite the
weight of the Marvel Cinematic Universe on his shoulders, the results
were staggeringly entertaining. The task of making a sequel to that
ground-breaking, monumental event film, however, and being expected to
deliver on par or better results, is an entirely different beast."Avengers: Age of Ultron" was definitely built on the bullet point
takeaways of "The Avengers," which are: Make time and space for wit,
banter and humor for the sake of humor to prevent the film from taking
itself too seriously; give each character a story arch and independent
moments; choreography clever action sequences with well-timed glory
shots. These components are in full force in "Ultron" and make enjoying
the blockbuster as easy as shoving a lollipop in your mouth.Yet "Ultron" is infinitely more complex than its predecessor. The
number of heroes featured barely fits into a single action figure play
case, meaning more subplots and back story, in addition to creating an
arch of the creation and life of Ultron itself. With a plot that takes
the Avengers from the eastern European country of "Sokovia" to New York
to the African nation of "Wakanda" to Seoul, South Korea to Sokovia
again, much of "Age of Ultron" is a non-stop blur.The film opens with the Avengers leading an assault on a secret HYDRA
facility where they have located the staff that Loki used to lead the
Chitauri invasion in "The Avengers." When they secure it and bring it
back to New York, Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) and Bruce Banner (Mark
Ruffalo) discover that its power source contains a blueprint for
artificial intelligence, which would allow Stark to proceed with his
Ultron project, an initiative to create peace-keeping robots that could
defend the world in place of the Avengers should another alien invasion
occur. When Ultron (voiced by James Spader) becomes conscious, however,
he interprets his peace-keeping instructions as an imperative to wipe
out humankind.Added to the mix are the Maximoff twins, Pietro (Aaron Taylor-Johnson)
and Wanda (Elizabeth Olsen) – also known as Quicksilver and Scarlet
Witch – who decide to serve Ultron, with the latter using her powers to
give each of the Avengers dangerous visions that could tear them apart.The fight scenes and action sequences are in such abundance in "Ultron"
that it's impossible to remember them all, and the ones that are most
distinct, such as Iron Man chasing down and taming a rampant Hulk using
his Hulkbuster armor, are ancillary to the narrative of finding what
Ultron is up to and stopping it. In other words – it's all for show.
The creativity of the fight choreography also gets lost in the
whirlwind of action. Captain America (Chris Evans) probably does 12
different awesome things with his shield, but they happen so fast
you'll be hard pressed to recall any one of them in detail. Really
clever sequences are only as fun as the build-up and payoff and those
pieces are given no time to breathe.Whedon does allow for pauses in the chaos, such as the swanky Avengers
Tower party featuring the film's best scene, when each Avenger tries
his hand at lifting Thor's hammer, or a quiet retreat to an unexpected
safe house in the countryside, but it's simply a trade- off: instead of
busy action sequences, we get character relationship dynamics and back
story."Ultron" is inundating, to be frank, but for the
everything-but-the-sink mentality, it's carried by its sense of humor
and a cast whose members have each proved themselves time and again to
be magnetic both on their own and as part of this team. Some of the
novelty has worn off, but seeing all these characters together remains
a treat that even the most convoluted of stories cannot entirely
dismantle. Marvel Studios truly proves with "Ultron" the credibility
that it has built with fans, to the point that even when it gets a
little ambitious and mettles a bit more (you can easily see Whedon at
odds with them in this final cut), its reputation remains intact and
the fans placated.As "Phase III" begins, adding even more characters to Marvel's
cinematic universe (and even sliding Spider-Man into the mix) en route
to the two-part "Avengers: Infinity War" slated for 2018 and 2019, it
will be interesting to see if Marvel Studios barrels along into more
unwieldy but delicious chaos, or reins it in a touch. Either way,
should be fun.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit Movie Muse Reviews for more
