8
A film that really speaks its target audience's language about what really matters

"Pretend this empty bottle of green tea is your vagina." - Jake, Jason
Sudeikis "Looks just like it." - Lainey, Alison Brie (nearly interrupting her) "Great, let's move on." - Jake, Jason
Sudeikis"Early on-set chemistry between actors in movies is a seriously
beautiful thing, especially when it's a chemistry you can see develop
from the very first frame in the film. Sleeping with Other People
features two delightful performers that I would've never thought have
been so charismatic and fun together. The performers in question are
Alison Brie and Jason Sudeikis, both proved assets to nearly every film
they are in, Brie for her constant, easy-going charisma and her
strengths at situational and conversational humor, and Sudeikis for
affable and impressively mature "manchild" roles, if that makes sense.The two make Sleeping with Other People, the sophomore effort from
Leslye Headland, who directed Bachelorette in 2012, a delightful
romantic comedy, one that speaks to the current generation by use of
wit, deadpan sarcasm, technological incorporation, and quick-witted
banter. Rather than trying too hard to try and illustrate a new kind of
relationship between people like Friends with Benefits, or frustrate
with its narrative conventions and compliance with incredulous
circumstances like Safe Haven, Sleeping with Other People is so simple
and genuine that you may overlook how large its impact is.The film opens in 2002, where a young collegian named Lainey (Alison
Brie) creates a scene outside of Jake's (Jason Sudeikis) dorm. When she
is about to be kicked out by security, Jake vouches that she is indeed
his guest, and the two spend most of the night in his dorm as she
states that her plan was to lose her virginity to her teaching
assistant Matt (Adam Scott). Jake, who is also a virgin, slams Matt as
one of the most boring people on the faces of the Earth, and both him
and Lainey end up hitting it off so well that they wind up having sex.In the present day, we see Lainey break up with her long-term boyfriend
after telling him she has been cheating on him. Per her therapist's
request, Lainey decides to visit a "love addicts" meeting where she
runs into Jake, who is there for his inability to commit. The two wind
up reconnecting just in time for Lainey to realize that Matt, who she
was cheating with, is getting engaged; both Lainey and Jake decide to
serve as one another's personal therapist as they carry out a strictly
platonic relationship revolving around discussing sex and learning the
process and perks of commitment.As stated, the bulk of this film relies on the charming and nonchalant
chemistry of both Sudeikis and Brie, which is something that
consistently works in the film's favor. Both are comedians well-versed
and trained in the field of modern comedies, so it's no surprise that
when the two get together, Headland's script has them zealously
spouting off quick-witted lines filled with subtle humor and sarcastic
undertones. Furthermore, this is the kind of language that the target
audience speaks in, especially when the subject revolves around love
and romantic commitment.We're approaching a day and age where more and more young people are
rejecting the idea of committing to another person or even formally
dating. Positives and negatives of that aside, films like Sleeping with
Other People are what we need to document such a shift in mindset. This
is a film that doesn't condescend the already disenfranchised
demographic when it comes to assertions of them "getting serious" with
one another, or the lack of ability to do so, nor does it feel like
this was a film made by outsiders looking in, thinking they know how
the newer generations operate without really knowing how they operate.
Headland does a wonderful job at conveying a sense of maturity and
restraint in her script, even when situations call for Jake showing
Lainey how to masturbate using an empty bottle of green tea.Quoted above is a line that perfectly summarizes the humor in this
film, not in terms of content, but in terms of zealous energy and
conversational wit. Sudeikis and Brie are so used to commanding the
screen in their films, regardless of whether or not they have a
starring or supporting role, that it's almost as if they cannot help
but exhaust all their comedic abilities in this particular film. The
result, coupled with the recurring themes of this generation's approach
to love and relationships, is refreshing and uncommonly fun, especially
given how laidback this film constantly feels.Starring: Alison Brie, Jason Sudeikis, and Adam Scott. Directed by:
Leslye Headland.
