4
Racism is Scary, Get Out is Not

I finished watching Get Out over 2 hours ago, but something has been
bothering me since the credits rolled. A sort of unpleasant, irritated
feeling that I couldn't really put my finger on until now. My biggest
complaint about this horror film is that it's not actually as scary as
the real life social problems it constantly hammers the viewer over the
head with. It's campy jump scares and unbelievable premise, drown out
the anti-racist message it could have had. In that way, it fails both
as a horror movie and constructive social commentary.Most quality horror movies take real life events and intensify them to
create something terrifying but relatable. The Shining was much scarier
than my trip to Colorado. The Blair Witch Project was more intense than
my last hike. Psycho was slightly more unnerving than my last stay at a
motel.Modern racism and the history of slavery are among the most disturbing
and evil aspects of the human experience and something countless people
suffer from daily. It is real and it is scary. So why add B-movie brain
swaps and fortune-teller hypnosis? Why base the story on a cheesy
fictional premise instead of something that actually happens? Why make
all but two of the characters completely one dimensional? (Keep in
mind, that Chris and his friend are the only characters in the film
with both a conscience and their original brain, all others are lacking
one or the other). Why does a flashing light reverse brain transplants?
Why would a racist white family, lure black men to them by using their
own daughter as a sex object? The answer to all these questions is lazy
writing.If you want to create a jarring horror movie rife with social
commentary about racism at least root it in reality. Sadly, past and
present, there is no lack of inspiration. I get that this movie is a
very heavy handed allusion to slavery, but of all the awful things
white people have done to black people, goofy brain swapping business
isn't one of them.I don't get why this movie has such overwhelmingly positive reviews.
The cinematography and acting were good, but the plot was trite,
compared to all the different directions they could have taken it. The
idea of a racially charged horror movie with a black protagonist and
white ghouls sounds really interesting (why I wanted to see it), but
Get Out just takes that idea and slaps it onto a 50's B-flick.
