1
Utterly repugnant propaganda filled vehicle.

Let's make a crime caper where we have an excuse to show a mentally
disabled man get tortured beyond reason. Even if he might be the
suspect we are subjected to the overzealous rage filled attacks carried
out by the kidnapped child's father. Let's also throw in some religious
rhetoric to situate villainy in Christians , elderly widows, depraved
sickos and handicapped people.Why were all of these vile charges crammed in just one movie? It leaves
me to respond with affirmation that this movie intended to anger, upset
and disgust any unsuspecting movie goer. But along with making a crime
caper that involves a kidnapping, we are also given a slow moving plot
filled with misleading clues, uneven continuity, numerous twists and
red-herrings that don't make much sense. Many questions will be asked
as you labor through this torturous drama and it only gets more
aggravating and confusing. Why would a police department be so
incompetent as to have the parents be committing vigilantism without
any surveillance? This is highly unlikely in America, even in rural
Midwestern towns. Did the writers bother to consult Law authorities on
investigative and forensic procedures? Because they seem non-existent
in this unbelievable tale.The most unforgiving and unsympathetic performance is Hugh Jackman's
character who completely absconds any sense of responsibility and
regard for law, humanity and common sense. As we see him emerging into
madness and sadistic rage we quickly lose any empathy for him. How is
it that any person can enjoy or be fascinated with the brutal torture
of a feeble and mentally incapable simpleton? It's just an exercise in
ugliness and perpetuates into the extreme. It was overdone. It would
have been more believable if the torture was attempted and later
foregone, realizing the method of debriefing wasn't working. Jackman's
acting is way over the top and fails to draw any sympathy. Perhaps it
was bad acting or a faulty script. It's as if the director was pushing
him in a weekly actor's workshop to go the limit with unconstrained
rage. It doesn't work.I also was annoyed at Gyllenhall's sleepy performance. For a detective
who is supposed to have a stellar record, he sure missed much of the
insanity going on with the people involved. This movie is also
anti-authority and rebellious in its stance. Showing cops get maligned
and disrespected is commonplace as the parents just freely go about
their neurotic business of vigilantism.Many times I asked myself, 'Why is this happening? What did that mean?
How is this guy involved? How did this old lady ever orchestrate such a
kidnapping spree without getting caught? She seems a wee bit too old
and frail to be carrying out such a demonic feat with grown men. Why
did the other suspect break into the house while the mother was there?
What exactly was he after? Why would he show up at a Candlelight vigil
and make a spectacle of himself? Lame and stupid plot making. Why
wasn't the priest ever a suspect before the kidnapping? You would think
the police would be led to clues as to the dead man's whereabouts. Why
would the old lady wait for Dover's second visit to constrain him? Was
she so certain her demonic plan could rebound after losing one hostage? Most reprehensible is this movie's conviction of wallowing in its own
depravity. It fails to make a distinction between what we can assert as
truthful and moral behavior and what is incomprehensible behavior. This
cheesy tag-line, "How far would you go?" only ushers in a weak excuse
for someone to go ballistic on anyone they suspect. Even if the person
in question has the wrong look in his eye. The question is so bad that
it doesn't even deserve to be dignified with an intelligent answer. The
question that should be asked is "How much effort does a caring father
need to put forth in order to assure the safety of his family, himself
and his daughter?" By committing abduction and torture he puts himself
in jeopardy and his family.I could go on with more questions, but Prisoners doesn't have any
redeeming qualities. A plethora of weird clues such as snakes stuffed
in crates, the numerous scenes featuring a maze, weird wall paper,
bloody clothes add up to nothing in this labyrinth of trash. It's all
shock material that is poorly crafted and handled. And it isn't even
believable.
