2
Ludicrous 3rd Act

First the positives:1. The movie moves quickly, it doesn't drag, so edited well. 2. The
middle part is half decent and what you expect for this series. 3. The
female lead and her friend are very attractive. 4. Decent special
effects. 5. Nice highlights from the original movie at the beginning.Negatives:1. Where did all these family members come from that wasn't in the 1st
movie? Terrible answer to what happened after the woman escaped. 2. Are
you really suppose to feel sympathy for a family who killed 4 people in
the 1st movie and implied they killed countless others? They deserved
to be shot and burned but the movie says it was wrong. 3. Why is
everyone a jerk in the movie? One guy steals, 2 people cheat, people
abusive, lying, etc. Only the boyfriend of the lead actress's friend
wasn't, and he was the most brutally killed. Come to think of it, the
mayor wasn't either, he did what had to be done, and he was the 2nd
most brutally killed. Too bad the movie thought he was a jerk. 4. Too
many clichés like the officer going to the house and not waiting for
BACKUP! Guess what happened to him. 5. Tombstone scene showing grandma
died in 2012, meaning 39 years after the 1st movie, yet no one aged
that much. Eating human meat must keep the body young as Leatherface at
60 something moves awfully well. 6. This must be the only carnival in
Texas that no one carries a gun. Also, amazingly, Leatherface doesn't
cut anyone with the chainsaw moving thru the crowded carnival. 7. A van
with a cut tire flipping over. That doesn't happen. 8. A sheriff who
believes in equal rights for serial killers. Just absurd. 9. Terrible
ending. Trying to have sympathy for Leatherface? How did anyone think
that was a good idea? He's suppose to be scary! 10. Lead actress who
suddenly forgets Leatherface killed her good friend and boyfriend, and
now loves him because he's her cousin. Terrible! 11. How does a sheriff
lose a deputy, see on video 3 cut up bodies, and just tell Leatherface
to clean up his mess? Fire the script supervisor! 12. Leave evidence
out so someone else can look thru it. Always the incompetent police
dept. If that were true today, the US would still be like the wild
west. 13. Have to take care of Leatherface? Let the cannibal rot. 14.
If it wasn't for the thief, would Leatherface ever have gotten out of
the house? How did he survive when Grandma died? 15. CGI gore, not that
great.I could go on, but too many more negatives, I'm done. I see why this
came out the 1st weekend of the new year.
