9
An extraordinary Love story, applicable to all of us !!

I waited some days to review this title after seeing this film. This
movie triggered me thinking about love and life and I waited to give it
my neutral review. I am watching movies since the latest 30 years and I
have to say ; This movie is special !! After 30 years of seeing all
kind of movies I have narrowed my scope of movies to see. They have to
be special, show me something different, give me ideas to think about
or to evaluate in my own life. So, movies like World war Z is not
directly my style. This movie although is one of the best love stories
I have seen. No unnecessary emotional or cuteness parts, each part of
the story is real and genius. It is the soft moments of a love story,
the hard moments bringing to the screen. The movie is made in away you
are in the skin of Adele and Emma ( can't remember the actress names ).
They take you with them in their love story, their feelings. That is
also the reason that the 3 hours of the movie is not too long at all. I
was surprised it took 3 hours when the film ended. The movie handles
the passion between them, a passion that many of us forget over the
years in a relation. That passion is also expressed in about 3 sex
scenes, 3 scenes which are quiet honest and direct. Some people will
find these scenes too long ( one of them could take 10 minutes ), but I
find it necessary to establish your follow up of the passion they have
between each other, so that when things goes worse you also are one
with the situation.This movie, natural, honest about love, life and sexuality could be
attended by children of 12 and more, if they are explained things of
life ( they also can see all kind of war movies  ). Many will say "Oh,
lesbian movie, what the hell you are". This is a movie for all of us,
independent of your orientation being gay, hetero, bisexual,  It is a
Love story.Each feeling, being angry / disappointment / sad / etc , can be seen
on the faces of Adele and Emma and by this I have to say that these
actresses are just superb, in fact I don't know another word to say
extraordinary acting. It has certainly been very difficult for them to
make this film. The director : Bravo to him.There are some scenes which are just fantastic : The first meeting
between them, the encounter between them in the lesbian bar in which
Adele is in a strange world as adolescent. The tree scene, where they
actually get in love both of them. The level of a good love story with
all it's feelings and situations has been raised to a higher one. Who
can ever do this better.And the last remark. The film treats the love story, it's personal
problems, the passion, but does not handle the problems which can have
their family or friends, not in detail.And now, go and watch it !
