8
C'mon, it's not that bad

There may be some inadvertent spoilers in this review, so beware! I
went to see this movie with my girlfriend expecting an action movie
with (based on the previews) really good special effects. After the
first 5mins of the movie, it became apparent that Battleship was going
to mix in some comedy as well. Both my girlfriend and I were both
laughing a lot at the beginning of the movie, and it loosened our
original perception of the movie. Now, we were just there to have a
good time.For the most part, I was impressed. A good amount of the negative
reviews I have read seem to not even be about this movie. I read one
that literally stated, "Why did we have to slaughter these aliens that
were just trying to get home?" They were obviously not watching the
same movie. These aliens were trying to use our satellites to bring
more ships to earth to take over the planet! They were piggy-backing on
our technology because their communications ship crashed at the
beginning. They weren't some well to do aliens who accidentally crashed
and were trying to get home! This was an invasion! Another review said
there were too many side stories... There were literally two. The main
story arc deals with the main character fighting the aliens, and then
his girlfriend is helping an army vet who lost his legs and they get
into some trouble. That's pretty much it.The one big problem I had was the super cheesy part towards the end
when all of the old veterans working on the Mighty Mo are posing all
over the ship and Hopper gives them the mini speech about asking them
to do more for their country. Plus, the idea of running a WWII era
battleship with about 10 Navy Sailors and 10 60+ year old vets is a
little... unbelievable. I'm not 100% on this, but the standard crew for
a Missouri type battleship is over 2000. That was just way too corny
for my taste, but it didn't take away too much from the over all movie.All in all, it was a lot of fun. The movie had great special effects,
the interplay between the actors was amusing, and at times, just plain
funny. The story was okay, there are a few things that were kind of
left hanging, but this isn't supposed to be some artsy, independent
film. I disagree with the reviewer who says that "It's an action movie"
isn't a good excuse. I say it is. If you want moving dialog, Oscar
worthy acting, and a swath of top name actors... This probably isn't
the movie for you. If you just want to have a good time, have some
laughs, see some great special effects and walk away from a movie with
a smile on your face, go see this movie.
