8
A little review on the characters from The D.U.F.F

Hmm. I gave this movie an eight... probably because the topic
synchronizes with the current age and mind sets I'm in. The comedy, the
acting, and especially the casting choices contributed to the eight.
For now I won't talk about the plot, because they'll *definitely* give
out spoilers, so I'll just chat about some of the stand out casts.Stand at front and center is our lead lady, Bianca Piper, played by Mae
Whitman. It was fun having having Whitman as the "Ugly-
Duckling-Turned-Swan" character(we all saw that coming; the Chinese
translation of this movie was "The Springtime for the unattractive
beauties"), but I gotta say that in a certain sense, Whitman was a
questionable choice. True, the casting made her a character that's
average-looking, kinda round-shaped, in order to make her two
companions stand out, but even with all her figure and no makeups,
isn't she still, like, the prettiest girl in that school? I mean, she's
smart, funny, makeup-free, a total brainiac... Maybe it's just me being
preferential - have been liking her since her minor role in
Independence Day, but her talents really did brought us amazement -
From Scott Pilgrim to Parenthood, this lady really keeps surprising us
in both acting and comedic performances. In short, to me, it's more
like Samuels and Santos brings Whitman's character out.The male lead was one of the main reasons I started following this
movie. Wesley Rush, played by Robbie "Firestorm" Amell. I'm not kidding
- he's really like a firestorm these days, both his professional and
personal lives are quite awesome. Ever since his days as Stephen
Jameson on The Tomorrow People he bilped on my radar and never dropped
since. Then his Firestorm role was amazing - especially so during that
The Flash episode when he teamed up with his real-life cousin Stephen,
who plays Green Arrow on Arrow. Before that he was in smaller movies
like Picture This, Struck by Lightning, and even a guest starring on
Pretty Little Liars. Since that he seems to have started his intro into
the big leagues. Hope to see more of his performances in more renounced
movies in the future.Next is the movie's main antagonist, Madison Morgan, played by Bella
Thorne. This is not her first significant role as a self-centered lady
jerk already - her first checkpoint as a really awesome movie
antagonist was during her days on Alexander and the Terrible... Day.
Her portrayal as the movie b*tch shows that she can be amazing at
literally any roles. Besides, bad guys get the best lines.Skyler Samuels and Bianca A. Santos plays the left and right wing in
Bianca's holy trinity group of girls. Not much about Santos(this movie
marks Santos' first blip on my radar), but Samuels was great. Before
this movie I watched Helicopter Mom, with her as female lead, and she
stunned me. Totally the possible legit next-gen acting gem. She got the
looks, she got the skills and she got all tools of the trades. The
group looks really inseparable any ways - Samuels portrayed the looks,
Santos the strength, and Whitman the wisdom.And finally in the end part - which means the most important one - Mr.
Arthur, played by Ken Jeong. I gotta say, watching Jeong here was
really neat - he changed his outfits, and his portrayal here was
phenomenal - best one in the movie. Truth be told, his role here; not
only did he successfully portrayed a legitimately wise teacher - the
wisdom, the care, the just, the calm... but the main reason I said
"best one in the movie" was because nothing but his role here
successfully and completely washed off the smudge he caused in my mind
with that idiotic Asian role in Transformers: Dark of the Moon. I mean,
him in a Michael Bay film(no offence to the director - he still makes
neat movies), drinking Shuhua Milk and saying it out loud(WTF?), then
that scene at the toilet with Shia LaBeouf... jeez. Admit it, this one
Ken Jeong role can totally clean up that "Deep Wang, Deep Wang, Deep
Wang..." mess ten times.Alright, Think that's about all the significant ones. This movie is
very fun to watch, so if you get a chance, try not to hesitate.
