10
An amazing comedy horror film.

Brian catches his underage daughter Tiffany and her three friends Aday,
Rain and Leah by a frat house, which he orders her not to go by and
orders her to get in the car, in which she refuses and tells him she
can walk home, because it's right around the corner. Brian forbids her
from going near the frat house and reveals that he is sending her and
her brother to their mom's house while he is out of town, much to her
displeasure. Brian then spies on Tiffany's conversation with Jonathan,
the frat president, on a tablet and noticing how sexual things seem to
be getting. Meanwhile, Madea and Aunt Bam are sitting outside of her
home giving away candy to kids trick-or-treating while Bam is secretly
stealing the children's candy until one kid (dressed as a cow, which
Madea mocks the kid's mother for) notices her stealing his and an
argument ensues. After that a clown approaches with a huge
jack-in-the-box, which frightens Bam. As the clown is approaching,
Madea is threatening him and dares something to jump out of the box.
Another clowns pops out and she's punches the clown, causing him to
fall out of the box. It is revealed to be Joe (the clown approaching
with the box) and Hattie (the clown who was in the box), who explained
they were just trying to scare them for fun. Meanwhile, in order to
keep Tiffany from sneaking off to the Halloween party, Brian calls
Madea, out of options, to stay there and look after Tiffany to keep her
away from the party which Joe and Hattie tag along for after Brian
promises to pay Madea. Tiffany and her friend Aday, realizing that
Madea and the others are there to watch them, decide to trick them into
sleeping early by faking a story about how a man named Mr. Wilson who
committed murders in their house and the only safe rooms are the
bedrooms and she then convinces them by secretly hitting a remote
control to turn the lights off in the house. Tiffany and Aday sneak off
to the party but Madea sees through the scheme after finding pillows
placed under the blankets to look as if they are sleeping. Madea
searches for Tiffany but her friends and Jonathan both lie to cover for
her. Madea shuts the party down but is thrown out by the party goers
into the bushes and leaves defeated. However, one of the frat brothers
discovers that Aday is underage and throws her out of the party which
is then shut down again when Bam calls the police due to Tiffany being
underage. The frat brothers realize that Madea and her friends are the
ones behind it and decide to prank them back by scaring them, unaware
that Aday has been hiding behind the outside staircase and overheard
their entire plan. Back at home, Tiffany still feigns that she was
asleep the whole time and had been sleeping in her father's room. The
brothers begin their pranks by scaring Hattie and Bam by posing as the
ghost of Mr. Wilson (which Jonathan had learned from Tiffany earlier)
and by one of the frat boys, Horse (Brock O'hurn) appearing as a clown
in the house. Madea, Hattie and Bam drive away out of fear and leave
Joe alone with the clown which he knocks out with his cane while he is
smoking pot. Madea's car breaks down up the road and the three are
pursued by the rest of the frat and party goers who are posing as
zombies that chase them down. Madea goes into the church led by Aday's
father and feigns interest in being saved, believing that the things
she is seeing are punishment for her sins. Aday's father and Aday
reveal to Madea that all of the things happening were pranks being
played on them by the frat brothers as revenge for shutting down the
party. Aday, her father, Hattie, Bam and Madea decide to prank the
brothers back. Brian is also called back into town to deal with Tiffany
for sneaking off. It is clear Tiffany has zero respect for Brian as a
parent due to him being a pushover and refusing to discipline his kids
the same way he was raised by Joe. Madea, Hattie and Bam begin to pack
Tiffany's clothes up in bags to throw her out of the house. This plan
works and Tiffany and Brian lay their feelings out about Brian's wife
cheating on him and him being a pushover. Brian, finally toughening up,
participates in helping to throw her out and exclaims that she can
either live there with him, abiding by his rules or go out on the
street on her own. Tiffany apologizes to Brian and the women for her
behavior and agrees to listen to her father's rules. Afterwards, the
police return to Brian's house looking for Tiffany, revealing to her
that her best friend, Aday has gone missing. They then take her with
them and handcuff her. The next day, the police knock on the door of
the frat house and one of the brothers discovers the body of Aday with
her throat slit in the basement. The brothers are arrested after the
police find Aday's body and a bag of marijuana and they are all placed
on a prison bus along with her and Aday's friends, Rain and Leah. A
brawl breaks out on the bus with the prisoners, scaring everyone
including Jonathan. Aday comes out of the house and everything is
revealed to be a prank with Jonathan apologizing as well. Madea, much
to her shock, learns that Brian called in actual police officers, one
of which recognizes Madea. Madea, Jonathan and the rest of the frat
brothers flee from the officers as the film ends.
