1
Worst in recent memory

Where do I begin - I will start with the premise, a bunch of people we
never learn anything about other than one guy was a gambler, one guy
was an alcoholic and the main character if you can call her that is a
vegetarian, are all rounded up from across the nation to compete in a
game that they have no idea of what it is and how it is played for a
chance to win enough money to take care of yourself for the rest of
your life. (been done before) That is all you learn. So there is Zero
Depth in the performances because there is no story about them. Next we have the actual photography of the film, I guess since the
characters have no color or depth to them, they decided to make the
movie look dull and colorless. If that was on purpose, good job,
however, I doubt it, Horror films and dark films are known to have a
more contrasted look because if gives color to blood and performance
and makeup. This film was pretty much grey they whole way. So, in my
humble opinion, the director of photography doesn't have much knowledge
of actual cinematography and the color palate. Next we come to the acting which as I mentioned above that the
performances were flat. They were all bad. Not one worthy performance,
mostly because we didn't know anything about them but also the writing
of the film was 96% exposition which is just garbage, all they did was
argue about what we already saw or know through the visuals. The main
guy was doing his best or worst impression of John Cleese, which was
horrible and overacted. His son, had zero point to the film and he
seemed like a favor to a friend to give the dude a part and it showed
cause he cannot act at all, the worst of the movie. maybe it was the
writing but his performance just made no sense what so ever. Something
about his mom died and he has been off his rocker since. The main girl,
who agrees to this because crap happens in life and she wants the
money. is uninteresting to say the least. I never felt for her because
as I said multiple times, we never learn anything other than the bare
minimum. The rest of the cast is rounded out with glorified extras
really. next, the kill scenes. Lame, no new ground covered and horrible shot.
Every time something happens the camera turns away. OK, so they wanted
a Horror film and not a gore film, got it, good. But no intensity
behind the kill scenes. Nothing. Not to mention half the group dies by
seemingly non lethal blows. I know this because I spent 14 years as a
Corpsman in the Navy and marine corps. A paralyzed old lady gets
stabbed in the thigh an ice pick and dies in seconds. Never gonna
happen, first of all they show where she got stabbed and the femoral
artery is not there and second, its an ice pick, the artery would roll
and be undamaged. A dude gets whipped 12 times on his back and he dies.
of what? Shock, ehh, maybe, but he was young so, I don't know what he
died of, but he did. Not blood loss that is for sure. Then a dude gets
his hand blown off by a supposed 1/4 stick of dynamite which looks an
awful lot like an M80 and not a 1/4 stick. anyway, regardless, he died
after having a heart attack after his hand blows up, which of course we
don't see. He was a bit overweight, but yeah, I am not buying it. I
wont go into all of them, but know, some dudes get just plain ol shot.
The only believable death scenes. The directing - uninspired, boring and stereotypical in shot selection.
Like the guy just read a book on basic coverage and then did it. OK, I
get that, I am currently in film school so, very safe. however, to make
it in Hollywood, you need to bring something new to the table. Not a
bore film, with uninspired performances, writing, action,
cinematography and directing. This film lacked on ALL FRONTS. If anything, you learn what not to do in making a film. first thing I
would have done in reading this script was ask WHY are the people going
to the game not asking what exactly will we be doing during this game?
I would have had a character say, wait a minute, when you said play a
game, you didn't say it was to the death, you never told us the rules
of said game therefor game is null and void. You as a director need to
be able to answer these basic questions before you make a film. I don't
care if it is your first film, you don't want it to be a stinker.
Eliminate the problems with concept and dialogue which was ohh man,
some of the worst dialogue I have ever witnessed in horror films. OK, I guess you can say I didn't like the film and I told you why. You
know who is going to win before you even start the game. Now your just
watching it happen and in the end, when you get there your like, yup,
just as I said. bad movie fellas...
