3
A Bloody Mess

Translating television shows to the big screen is part and parcel of
popular film-making dating back to the 1950s. So it was no surprise
that Dark Shadows, the legendary Gothic horror soap opera that ran from
1966-1971, came back to the big screen in 2012. Unlike the earlier
low-budget films made after the show's demise, this one was to be a big
budget star vehicle from director Tim Burton with a cast that included
Johnny Depp. On the surface, it looked to be a wonder mix of a director
and star getting the chance to bring a mutual favorite of theirs to
life once more. What it became instead was something of a mess.To be fair, translating any long running program to the big screen
would be a challenge. Never mind if that series ran for something like
1200 episodes like Dark Shadows did while covering everything from
vampires to witches, werewolves, and ghosts not to mention usual soap
opera tropes like family secrets and twisted relationships. Yet for its
opening twenty-odd minutes, Burton and his writers (John August and
Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter writer Seth Grahame-Smith) seem to do
it as they quickly introduce the series most famous character, the
vampire Barnabas Collins (played by Depp) and set the stage for the
film's main setting: the Maine town of Collinsport in 1972. For these
opening minutes, it's a wonderful Gothic film full of atmosphere and
menace as Victoria Winters (Bella Heathcote) is introduced to the
Collins family and their home. It doesn't last very long though.Sadly, once Depp's Barnabas reappears, the film can't figure out what
it's meant to be. Is it an adaptation of the TV series? Is it a Gothic
horror film? Is it a parody of the series? Instead of picking any one
of those (which, under Burton's direction, would undoubtedly have been
interesting), the script tries to be all three. For nearly ninety
minutes of its running time, the film moves along from one genre to the
other. Worse, it often does so within the same scene which leaves
scenes feeling even weirder than one might normally expect within a Tim
Burton film. One never knows where to laugh, cringe, or be scared and
the result is a film that is immensely unsatisfying to say the least.It also plays merry havoc with every single performance in the film.
Depp's Barnabas has some good moments but the ever shifting nature of
the film, especially the attempts to make it comedic, never give him
anything really solid enough to play with. The havoc really takes its
toll on the usually reliable Eva Green as the villainous witch
Angelique who instead gives a performance that, outside of her
appearance in the film's opening minutes, becomes overplayed to the
point of lacking either menace or humor. The rest of the cast including
Michelle Pfeiffer, Helena Bonham Carter, Jackie Earle Haley, and Jonny
Lee Miller are all effectively wasted as nobody gets anything solid to
do in the film with Carter and Miller in particular playing parody
versions of their TV counterparts. Of the entire cast, Bella Heathcote
as Victoria Winters fares better but largely because her character
becomes the audience's in-road to the Collins' family and by her
becoming Depp's love interest, something that allows her to shine ahead
of almost everyone else. It's a potentially good cast let down by a
poor script.Yet the film does have some positive attributes. The aforementioned
opening minutes are superb with the combination of script, Burton's
direction, and production values creating a wonderful atmosphere that
the film then throws away. Even in the lackluster parts of the film,
the production values are first rate though. The 1972 setting of the
film is interesting with 1970s fashions conflicting nicely with the
Gothic mansion. Indeed, Collinwood itself is a wonderful piece of
pastiche Gothic design though Burton has always had that on his side.
There's a number of nice cameos as well including some members of the
original Dark Shadows cast that eagle eyed viewers might spot. If one
was to rate the film on style instead of substance, it would be pretty
good.Yet for all of its aesthetic attributes, Tim Burton's film of Dark
Shadows is a mess. The biggest fault lies in with a script that can't
ever quite make up its mind what kind of story it's trying to tell
which in turn leaves virtually the entire cast out to dry. The opening
minutes hint at a film that could have been good but instead it feels
like a trailer for a film that should have been made but wasn't. Bigger
isn't always better and this film is a perfect example of how not to
bring a TV series to the big screen.
