7
It was a pretty cute

Felt very derivative of Intouchables I did however really enjoy the
romance that was in this film.Emilia Clark has the most expressive face I have ever seen on camera.Watch her eyebrows! That's all I have to say. You could almost watch
this entire movie just staring at her eyebrows I had a hard time not
doing that.I really enjoyed her character. She is a silly, eccentric, perpetually
happy girl. With a pretty eclectic sense of style.Emilia Clarke was perfectly cast for this role.She ventures far from her intense power house character the Mother of
Dragons from Game of Thrones.At times it was hard to tell if Emilia Clarke the actress is just
extremely expressive with her face, or if it was something she was
doing for the role which I suppose speaks to how well she did.Because I'm thinking she was exaggerating it, therefore she played the
part marvellously.The male lead is Sam Claflin, who you will more than likely recognize
but not be able to place. His largest role as of late is the water
proficient fighter from the Hunger Games.I also feel he played the part very well. No complaints, He has a great
smile, or smirk, that he does through out, which allows us to empathize
with him a little more when he seeming unlikable.There are a lot of light moments, actually the whole movie has a very
light tone to it it's a serious topic, but with Clarke's character
it's hard for anything to be too serious or solemn. There are those
sombre moments, which is, I'm sure, why I was given a tissue box at the
advance screening.There were only a few editing aspects I didn't enjoy. There were far
too many cuts in certain scenes Emilia walking up to the mansion for
the first time and her conversation on the bench with her boyfriend.
They were distracting. This was sprinkled throughout the film to
greater or lesser degrees.I think the film looked pretty, great locations. And a wonderful set,
really. The house Claflin's character lives in looks very nice. I loved
all the walls that opened when pushed on. Very modern, and expensive
I'm sure.There is a little treat for any Harry Potter fans! Neville Longbottom,
all grown up and looking fit, he plays the part of Emilia Clarke's
boyfriend. I hope to see him in more roles, maybe even a lead one day.As for family friendliness, this movie is a G, it is good to go. In the
opening scene Claflin is presumably being intimate with his girlfriend,
they are obviously naked, but nothing is shown, they are under sheets.There is no cursing or obscenities in this movie worth mentioning.
