9
Heartbreaking But Amazingly Well Done

I've heard complaints from a number of people, expressing disdain for
Maggie; people keep insisting that it was slow or boring. I don't know
what any of them are even talking about. My only suspicion is that they
are burdened with a poor attention span. Sure, it is slower than the
typical Arnold Schwarzenegger action flick (and I can't deny that I
have enjoyed quite a few of those)...and it isn't one of the generic
shoot-em-up zombie movies (which I happen to enjoy quite a bit). What
people seem to be forgetting is that it wasn't written to be either of
those things, and if that was what they expected, the fault is their
own...as the movie never makes an attempt to trick the viewer into
thinking it might be that sort of movie. The minimalistic score is
somber and about as perfect as it could be, the washed out
cinematography lends itself well to the desolation of both the world of
the movie and the depressing narrative itself, and the acting in all
cases is superb...seriously, this is one of Schwarzenegger's most
impressive performances, displaying greater depth and humanity than his
typical roles allow. Think of this movie as being a beautifully
executed amalgam of The Road and The Walking Dead...leaning a little
more toward The Road. It is a touching, and intensely sad story of a
man desperate to milk the last little bit of fatherhood out of the
limited time he has with his dying daughter, and a girl who just wants
to live a couple of weeks longer as if things were still OK. There are
a couple of tense scenes arising from the nightmarish place the world
has become that end up being fairly understated, but they are not the
focus of the story, nor are the zombies that people are
becoming...those are simply elements of the setting in which the story
takes place. In that sense, this movie ends up sharing one of my
favorite things about The Walking Dead, that it is ultimately a
character study, a detailed focus on human beings and how they are
forced to adapt to a situation that no one could ever truly prepare
for. Unlike the Walking Dead, Maggie felt like it had a much more even
flow to it, it wasn't as unevenly paced, in part because it had no
pretense of being action-oriented at any point. It's sincerely quite
depressing, but well worth the time spent watching it. I'm sure that
plenty of people will disagree with my assessment of this movie, but I
really found no fault in it.
