8
Despite it's short length, I really enjoyed Chronicle.

Throughout the years, audiences have been treated to origin stories
such as those based on superheroes. With the recent success of the
Batman, X-Men, Spider-Man films; and also worth mentioning "Thor"
"X-Men:First Class", and "Captain America", it's not hard to see why
they click with audiences. With "Chronicle", the superhero origin story
is given a fresh new spin.Directed by Joe Trank, "Chronicle" tells the story of three friends who
gain superpowers from a mysterious tunnel discovered in a remote part
of a suburban town. Strangely, these teens don't seem frightened or
confused about their new found power. Think about how frightened and
confused Bruce Banner was when he first transformed into the Hulk. But
whereas Hulk was bombarded with gamma rays, "Chronicle" takes a swipe
at a fairly plausible Dues Ex Machina plot device that has yet to be
explained in possible future installments.It's true that some may find fault with it's vignette-style story
telling in the vein of "Cloverfield". But unlike "Cloverfield" which
was a good film in it's own right but had a little too much "shaky-cam"
effect, the technique is surprisingly easy to follow. That along with
the well-written script and performances, made "Chronicle" all the more
enjoyable and engrossing. Maybe in the future, film-makers should take
notice from this film in order to make a superb product. Not only that,
they even managed to achieve believable special effects on a low budget
along with the script. That's really impressive that they achieved to
reach fans of superhero comics and films as well as the general
audience; very unique.But I really wished it was longer. With such an intriguing premise even
more better than Hayden Christensen's stinker of a superhero origin
story "Jumper". "Jumper" was such a disappointment. It wasn't even
fully developed on it's potential and sadly was utterly wasted.
Thankfully, "Chronicle" delivers on everything that film didn't and
more. The climax(which I will not spoil) is one of sheer awesomeness.
Emotionally charged with a nice dash of good vs evil, done in an
unconventional way. The length of the film bummed me out, but from the
looks of things, I can see this film grow into something really
special.
