5
This film is wrong in so many ways, yet I don't completely hate it.

The reason why I do not hate this film is mostly because it's
entertaining and lots of fun. Honestly, it's the seventh installment in
the series, so one can only expect a very small share of quality horror
by now. Seriously, how many times can a film be recycled, rebooted,
remade, retold, prequel-ed or whatever? "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre"
has three official sequels and those were mostly intended as reboots,
then there was the official remake, which was rather good, and then the
prequel to the remake. In this case, "Texas Chainsaw 3D" was intended
as a sequel that takes up right after the first film directed by Tobe
Hooper in 1974, and that's what I like about this film. However, how
seriously can I take a horror film that has "3D" on the title? The
original film by Tobe Hooper is considered a masterpiece to this day
because it was a perfectly done horror film with almost no budget and
most of all, simplicity. There were no superb special effects, no
massive amounts of gore and brutal as it was, Tobe Hooper managed to
keep it nice and simple. Well, in "Texas Chainsaw 3D", the film opens with a scene that is
supposed to take place right after the events of the first film. In
this scene, we find out what happens to Leatherface and his family of
sadistic maniacs, when the police arrive. I have to say, they did a
very good job with this, because the house looks exactly like the one
in the original film and the photography looks very much like in the
original film directed by Hooper. The problem is, right after this
wonderful opening scene, everything goes to hell and that's not a
compliment.First of all, the characters are very poorly written and their actions
make no sense most of the times, including the main character. Now, I
know this is a slasher film and character development is not exactly
what slasher films are all about, but there's no reason to make them so
weak and absurd! It would be forgivable if the lack of sensitivity was
the director's way of filmmaking or if it added something to a surreal
kind of story-telling, but in this case, it's just plain bad writing. I
mean, most of the things that the characters do just cannot be
explained by anyone's logic. The main character, for example, whose
name is Heather, discovers almost by the end of the film, that she is
related to the blood-hungry maniacs from the original film. Now, one
would normally expect her to be shocked and escape from this, but no,
young Heather actually decides to join her cannibalistic cousin Jeb
(Leatherface), because I don't know why! Blood is thicker than water
and the writers were lazy, I guess. Then, there's a huge chronological inconsistency that basically ruins
the entire film, at least for me and it makes me take the film less
seriously. The main character, who was supposedly born in 1974, appears
in this film, which takes place in 2012, as 26-year old girl! I
seriously can't understand how they could have failed to notice this. I
mean, if they wanted to choose a younger cast because they thought it
would be more appealing to the audience, they should have set the story
in the mid or late 90s, but not this! I understand that being a slasher
film, the cast is supposed to be attractive (though I disagree with
this rule), but there are a lot of attractive actresses and actors in
their late 30s or early 40s, there was no need to cast people in their
early or mid 20s to make this appealing to the young audience.Another thing that bothers me a great deal, are the cheesy dialogs and
lines in this film. Seriously, I know this is not supposed to be
Shakespearean, but the dialogs are cringe-worthy most of the times.
Everything sounds artificial and cheap, like a bad TV movie or a dated
soap opera. Things that make the film work: It's fun! Seriously, it's really a
watchable movie for the most part and I can't say that I'm never going
to see it again, because I probably will. This is one of those films
that, even if they are very flawed, one can somehow ignore the errors
and watch them again, just because they're very entertaining and fun.
Another thing I liked about this film: Even if it was poorly executed,
the idea behind it was good. I love the fact that we get to know more
about the family's back story and even about a wealthy relative who
cares for the chainsaw killer. It was nice to see the characters change
scenario for once. A pleasant surprise was also seeing Marilyn Burns,
who played the original final girl in the 1974 film, in a different
character. Actually, Marilyn Burns didn't play a victim anymore, but
instead, one of Leatherface's relatives, which is a good wink to the
audience, I guess.Final verdict: The movie was poorly done and it's mostly insulting to
the fans, but it's fun and enjoyable. I wish the writers would have
been a little bit more attentive to certain crucial details and more
serious with the dialogs. This film had all the potential in the world
to be a great sequel.
