5
"A chainsaw don't make you bulletproof!"

The writers of this one try to develop the familiar story of the Texas
cannibal family in different ways, but ultimately what we get is the
same-old, same-old, done in a typical modern style. On a visceral
level, it's watchable, but it's got more than its share of silly and
groan-inducing moments. ("Do your thing, cuz!" is just one of them.)
Yeah, there's lots of splatter, and the presentation favours a very
action-oriented approach. The obvious victims- to-be are a pretty
nondescript and dull bunch; performances are either annoying or
passable.It functions as a direct sequel to Tobe Hooper's classic "The Texas
Chain Saw Massacre", picking up shortly after the point that the
original ends. The Sawyer homestead is attacked and burned to the
ground by vigilantes, and during the mêlée a baby is able to survive.
Some 20 odd years later, that baby, Heather (Alexandra Daddario)
receives word that her grandmother has passed away. Part of her
inheritance is the old family home, which is housing a certain
character in its basement. When Heather and her friends come to the
place to check it out, he'll be out to stalk and slaughter the stupid
with his trusty chainsaw.A chase sequence through a carnival seems pretty contrived, and far too
often "Texas Chainsaw" is utterly lacking in atmosphere and any sense
of a build. Sure, the pacing is very fast, but there's too much
nonsense from our characters. There's still some vicarious
entertainment in seeing them meet such hideous ends. The opening
sequence, featuring series alumni Gunnar Hansen, John Dugan, and Bill
Moseley, is fun, in any event; it's supplemented by archive footage
from Hoopers' film. The development of the Heather role is moderately
amusing, and in this scenario Leatherface really isn't the primary
antagonist.Dan Yeager is adequate as Leatherface, no more and no less. Clint
Eastwoods' son Scott plays the role of the young cop Carl, Richard
Riehle ("Chillerama") plays a lawyer, and Marilyn Burns turns up near
the end. Along with Hansen, Dugan, and Moseley, she does help to create
some audience goodwill. But "Texas Chainsaw" is, ultimately,
indistinguishable from lots of other horror product these days.Five out of 10.
