2
Another Awful piece of inept garbage from M. Night Shylaman.

(Originally reviewed: 08/02/2017) M. Night Shylaman is a shadow of his
former self, yet another terrible piece of work that's being hailed as
some sort of return to form. His last good film was Signs, and that was
still not the film I had hoped for, but it was nonetheless well made to
an extent, whereas here I'm thinking it's not about if Split is as good
as The Sixth Sense, it's as if it's as bad as The Village, and the
answer is; yes it's every bit as stupid as The Village. James McAvoy is
a decent actor, and his performance is kind of respectable but some of
his personalities are borderline annoying therefore it lessens my
praise of his all-round performance. The Supporting cast are fine, but
then again the acting is not the problem here, it's everything else. The picture starts off with a few lines of dialogue and then jumps
straight into the kidnapping; I kept saying to myself; imagine if there
was some sort of character development, because all we know is their
first names and that one of the three (Anya Taylor-Joy) gets into
trouble at school, I don't see how Shyamalan thought this was enough
for me to invest in the characters. During their stay as hostages, as
one would expect from someone in this situation, they try to escape,
and the first two are obviously unsuccessful in the first half, and
that's probably the most interesting thing that happens for that half.McAvoy's character allegedly has 23 personalities but I personally only
counted 8, therefore the film's plot is factually wrong, and within
these ridiculous personalities are an 8 year old, a woman and some sort
of beast, now what I can't understand is how the first two are used to
create humour and fail miserably and the third is so ludicrous it made
me openly sigh; everything he does within the third personality I
mentioned are implausible, silly and void of actual sense. The dialogue
is extremely bad, there's even a horrible scene where he kisses one of
the girls and says "I think you're pregnant now", its idiocy knows no
bounds, and I for one was not taken in by its trashy humour and its
nonsensical plotting. There's plenty of random chatter with an old lady
who plays his psychiatrist (Betty Buckley) and it's obviously pointless
as it never goes anyway and Shyamalan's lack of an actual pace is
horrifying.When Split is not being stupid, it's being ugly, jumbles in side scenes
involving some huge oaf and a little girl which looked like some kind
of paedophile story, but then again, I could be wrong as it had no
connection to the main story and had no relevance to anything going on
so well done for yet again making nonsensical garbage. Then there's
McAvoy's character lying in bed with young girls, and telling them to
strip naked and biting one of their legs during 'beast mode', If this
is what passes for an entertaining thriller then Hollywood really is
doomed. Even in in the third act is defies any sort of logic, and
leaves a gaping plot hole, during its climax it decides it will forget
that there were three girls and only two, I kept asking myself where on
earth did the third one go, but then again I thought who cares, because
it's stupid. Implausible and void of common sense from start to finish.
When the best moment in your film is Bruce Willis cameoing by sitting
in a diner referencing the far superior Unbreakable, you know your film
sucks; Split is the year's worst film so far.
