3
Forced clichés and unrealistic scenario

Forced clichés and unrealistic scenarioHere you have it, I described the hole movie on the title. This movie
is unbelievable bad. We watched it yesterday and we literally couldn't
believe how could they messed so bad.The movie attempts to include as much clichés as possible, but this is
not the real issue. The real issue is that the clichés are really
forced into the script and presented totally unrealistic. Let's
examine:1. The boxer (Hope) is hyper-aggressive. OK so this boxer is the top
dog with 40+ victories but he never learned to block....2. His wife gets murdered and no one is blamed. This part is where the
story really goes downhill! Hope and his wife were on a philanthropic
event inside a casino. The arch enemy of the boxer after the event
start to talk smack about the boxer's wife and they start to fight. So
far so good. Out of nowhere someone of the arch-enemy's bodyguards
draws a gun and accidentally kills the Hope's wife. WTF, how is even
possible to have a gun inside a casino? And why he draw a gun? To shoot
the protagonist? Inside the casino? With people watching? And why shoot
him, wasn't the whole plan of the antagonist to start this fist fight? Then the woman dies on the floor and nobody does anything to catch the
killer! No one of the hundreds of attendees saw anything! And the
protagonist don't even try during the rest of the movie to bring the
killer to justice. The directors wanted a dead wife to build a sad
story but they made no attempt to design a realistic death or a
realistic aftermath of the murder.3. The ultra successful boxer after his wife death loses one fight and
punches the referee. This incident is enough from turning him from
super rich living to a huge mansion with a collection of luxury cars to
completely financially broke. WTF? This forced misery in order to build
an arch is so laughably unrealistic! 4. Hope crashes his car on a tree on purpose and his kid is immediately
removed from his custody. Why? He didn't harm any one else but himself
and the car. He crashed inside his garden so he caused no threat to
anyone else for crying out loud! The kid that until that point loved
her father and cried her eyes out when the jury decided to separate her
from him, after one week away from the father, now hates him!.... Is
this a parody, because if it is, well done!? The only justification
from the kid's hate towards the protagonist is a line of the kid's
therapist: "not everything revolves around you, you should respect her
emotions"5. Latter on a young boy boxer (Hoppy) dies in a tragic family incident
and the protagonist with his trainer soak to tears. Another forced
cliché in a pathetic attempt to make the viewer feel sad. Hoppy before
his death had a total of 1 minute on-screen time and there was no build
up to his death, just a quick "I heard there were some fighting between
his mom and dad". No one was invested on the kids life so seeing the
protagonist and the trainer cry didn't do anything emotionally to the
viewer. In my opinion this sub-plot should have been completely
removed. If you don't have time and interest to build a decent
sub-plot, don't include it on the movie. It just looks like a cheap
attempt to make the viewer feel sad.OK let's move on and talk about the antagonist (Miguel). Same pattern
here, rushed and forced. We are introduced to the antagonist at the
start of the movie where Miguel start taking smack to Hope during a
press conference. The antagonist just stands on the crowd and asks for
a "real" match between him and the protagonist. When we saw this part
of the film, no one knew who this is, he might as well be a drunk who
managed to pass security. Why the protagonist was upset after-wards?
Nobody knew.... In fact there is no descent explanation of the hate
between these 2 characters. Also throughout the film Miguel is just
there to serve as an arch-enemy. No character build up, no back story,
nothing.All this points are show stoppers so there is no need to talk about
anything else about this movie. My three star rating is for Forest
Whitaker (the trainer) who tried inside this mess of a movie to give a
solid performance.One last thing, at the end Hope wins with an unexpected move, Karate
Kid anyone?!
