7
He's the Captain now

Greetings again from the darkness. Society has a tendency to go to
extremes – hero worship for those who probably don't deserve it and
character assassination for those who have the gall to be less than
perfect. Chesley "Sully" Sullenberger has experienced both. On January
15, 2009, Sully made the decision to land the crippled aircraft of US
Airways flight 1549 right into a river … an event immediately labeled
"Miracle on the Hudson".Surprisingly, this is the first film collaboration for Tom Hanks and
director Clint Eastwood. Both have cinematic experience with true life
stories and real people: Hanks most recently in Captain Phillips and
Bridge of Spies; and Clint with American Sniper and J. Edgar. This one
is the perfect fit as Hanks takes on a good man who takes pride in
doing his job, and Clint brings to life a story that showcases the best
of human nature.Tom Komanicki adapted the screenplay from the book "Highest Duty",
co-written by Sully and Jeffrey Zaslow. Much of the attention is given
to the doubts and uncertainty Sully experienced during the NTSB review.
The scrutiny of his work by the committee (played here by the
ultra-serious Mike O'Malley, Anna Gunn, Jamey Sheridan) left his career
and reputation dangling, inspiring nightmares that are much worse than
yours and mine.Certainly we are in awe of what Sully pulled off that morning, but as
movie goers, we are anxious to see the plane crash/splash/landing.
Clint comes through in breath-taking fashion. While it lacks the
hysterics and drama of the upside-down plane in Flight, this
re-creation is so realistic that we nearly obey the flight attendants
repeated instructions of "Heads down. Stay down". Even the cockpit
chatter, passenger evacuation, and first responder's (many of whom are
real life folks, not actors) activities are played in matter-of-fact
manner … more people just doing their job. We shiver knowing the icy
Hudson River water is 36 degrees, and we feel Sully's anxiety as he
desperately tries to get a final count … a count that he prays will hit
155.Aaron Eckhart plays co-pilot Jeff Skiles and has a couple of memorable
scenes, and Laura Linney embraces the thankless role of telephone wife
of Sully during the aftermath and hearings. We get a glimpse of Sully's
background with flashbacks to his flight lessons at a Denison Texas
private airfield, as well as a portion of his military service. Hanks
is the perfect choice for a role that would have suited James Stewart
just fine if it were the 1940's.The conflict here comes from the NTSB inquiry. Backed by computer
simulators that show the plane could have coasted back to LaGuardia, we
get the distinct feeling that the committee's goal is finding human
error – naming a scapegoat (other than Canadian geese) for their "lost"
plane. It's Sully who reminds us that the committee is simply doing
their job … just as he was, Skiles was, the Flight Attendants were, and
the first responders were.This is technically expert filmmaking. We know the ending, but are
glued to the screen. Frequent Eastwood collaborator Tom Stern handles
the cinematography, and like the acting and story-telling, the camera
work avoids any excess or over-dramatization. The film provides one of
the best examples ever of the duality of hero worship and intense
scrutiny, and how a person can be a hero by simply doing their job. The
closing credits show clips of the flight's reunion and every survivor
would agree that the best among us allowed a continuation of life …
something that could have gone to the other extreme.
