6
Empty Darkness

Tim Burton is probably one of the best choices to direct a Dark Shadows
movie. He's always good at making Dark, Gothic films and everyone's
expecting it to be something like Sweeney Todd and Sleepy Hollow.
Instead, it has a hybrid of Corpse Bride and Beetlejuice. It begins
with decent gloominess but the rest is scattered with groovy soundtrack
and colorful images. But that may not be the problem. It's actually
pretty good at recapturing the 70's. The main problem is the plot
development. It's fun but also disappointing.It looks promising in the beginning. Tim Burton uses his campy
directing style which made the intro intriguing. It get silly when
Barnabas returns from his grave. Exploring the changes of his town.
It's quite funny and delightful. There's a good character development
in this that made it entertaining. Johnny Depp gives a delightful
performance as Barnabas Collins. Eva Green is quite menacing as
Angelique. Jackie Earle Haley and Helena Bonham Carter are the extra
comic relief. Chloë Moretz is always good at bad girl roles.There's a lot of fun going on, but in the end, the experience feels
like something's missing. It could have been an interesting story but
it ends pretty lazy. There are couple of senseless twists that aren't
consistent. At least there is something good in the filmmaking. The
production design is quite decent and sometimes unlikely colorful.
Postmodern music are played often which made Danny Elfman's music score
hard to notice. But these merits can't fix the film's storytelling.Dark Shadows is undeniably entertaining and nothing else. There are
things that could have been better. I don't think the colorful groovy
look is the problem. It just needs a better ending that gives
consistency to the story. People can still give it a try for its camp.
There's a true vampire here that is nothing like our modern vampires.
Dark Shadows is not bad. It's just unsatisfying. It has the color,
life, and all but what's missing is a proper plot development.
