1
This is a nothing movie

"In my experience, the shorter the joke, the more effective. Ten
seconds is hilarious, four minutes is embarrassing,"-Hope Chapman. This
quote is perfect for describing "Sex Tape" starring Cameron Diaz
(Annie) and Jason Segel (Jay). Even if every attempted joke didn't go
on for five minutes, they were not funny to begin with and there are so
many problems, big and small, that this movie has that it is almost
impossible to see anything positive that came from this abomination
that has been passed off as a movie.Being married for several years and now with two kids (Sebastian Hedges
Thomas and Giselle Eisenberg), Annie and Jay decide to make a sex tape
in an attempt to rekindle how their relationship was early on when they
first met. Jay does not release the tape afterwards and accidentally
sends it out to everyone he's ever bought an iPad for, including their
friends Robby (Rob Corddry) and his wife Tess (Ellie Kemper), Annie's
possible new boss Hank (Rob Lowe), and even their mailman (Dave Allen).
With the help of Robby and Tess, Annie and Jay set out to recover all
of the iPads in order to keep their sex tape a secret.What is just incredible to me is that this film lacks any pacing. Not
only does this movie already have the premise of a thirty minute sitcom
episode that is now being lengthened to film length, but so little
actually happens in the movie. By the premise, you'd think that Annie
and Jay would spend most of the movie going to their friends houses and
trying to get their iPads without revealing why they need them back.
However, a good chunk of the movie is spent at Hank's house. For thirty
minutes we see paintings of Hank put into Disney movies, Annie doing
cocaine to distract Hank, and Jay being chased around by Hank's dog.
None of it is funny and it is the same three jokes going on for thirty
minutes.A twist (I guess that's what you'd call it) is revealed that Robby and
Tess' son Howard (Harrison Holzer) got the tape, made a copy of it, and
put it online and will only take it off if Annie and Jay give him
$25,000. Howard's motivations are not established ahead of time so when
it is revealed he put the video online, his entire motivation is
established right then and there, two-thirds of the way through the
movie. This movie actually has a worse humor style than the potty humor of an
Adam Sandler film or a Michael Bay film because, even though those
films are not funny, there is at least the start of some sort of joke
in it all. In "Sex Tape" the majority of the humor is just having the
characters run around shouting out swears. There is no joke to any of
it, it's just people cursing. It might be funny if the cursing was part
of some sort of punchline, but it isn't. It is just swearing for the
sake of swearing. Now, I have no problem with swearing in movies, but I
do have a problem with it when it is used as the main source of humor
in a film and it isn't funny. Then, when the movie isn't just using
characters swearing, it uses pop cultural references and the jokes that
the opening quote described. The pop cultural references aren't even
spoofing things from culture, it is just the characters making
reference to them, such as "Lincoln" or "Breaking Bad". "Sex Tape" is just pathetic. There is not a single redeemable quality
that you can take from this movie. Sure, I like Ellie Kemper and Rob
Lowe in other stuff, but they weren't given anything funny to work with
in this so they are wasted. I guess if I could pull one good thing from
the movie, it would be that it is not the worst movie I've ever seen.
