8
Much better than expected (from a fan of the book)

Two things first: I love the book "Ender's Game" and its 3 follow ups
and no, I have no tolerance for Orson Scott Card's homophobia which is
so very much in contrast to the themes of this brilliant series of
books, which belong to the rare species of intelligent, thought
provoking and well written Scifi. So this review - rather a 'how does
the film compare to the book' - comes from a fan and will contain huge
spoilers. Only read on if you know the book or have seen the film.I was absolutely looking forward to this film, while expecting a
disappointment at the same time. But the filmmakers got a lot of it
right. They didn't change it to some dumb action flick, they didn't
make it sentimental, they didn't include some stupid love story, they
didn't add comic relief, they didn't choose only great looking kids and
they didn't go for a happy ending. Also they largely kept the violence
of Ender's self defence acts (though it should have been messier). Asa
Butterfield (while of course much too old and tall) got Ender just
right, with a restrained but nonetheless powerful performance. To
portrait Ender is difficult because there's so much inner monologue in
the book, luckily they didn't go for the easy way out with voice-over
but relied on acting and atmosphere.Praise has to go for the visualization of the battle room which is just
perfect and the "simulations", including the final battle, where they
stay away from Star Wars like space battles but go for a completely
different look, maybe inspired by RTS games. That probably surprised me
the most and it really keeps the visuals fresh because we haven't seen
anything like it before on this scale. Of course they had to reduce the
complexities of the book. Harrison Ford gives an uncompromising
performance as Colonel Graff but his character is missing a lot of the
ambiguity and subtlety, being much more a villain than a torn father
figure (who loves his children and still sends them to war, being a
master manipulator and always finding ways to justify his actions).
They muddled up the timeline, tuned down on the gifted children aspect
(which is a huge thing for OSC), sort of left out the Ansible, made
some confusing choices when to reveal who's attacking whom and where
and why, they didn't have the time to properly introduce and
characterize the other children. A lot of time and development is
missing in battle school, I'd have loved to see the progress of the
battle room actions but again, they didn't go for the Hollywood
standard montage ("the Rocky Routine") and I appreciate that. I wasn't
happy with some casting choices: Peter and the short, weird looking
Bonzo didn't fit and, please, Ben 'Any Nationality' Kingsley as Razor
Rackham? He's often a great actor but if you need a Maori cast a Maori!
Now for the ending (after the battle). Maybe the biggest change (again
to simplify story telling) was to relocate the human's command base to
a planet close the the Formic home world, so Ender just has to step out
of the base to find the cocoon. But in the film it's not the baby queen
in the cocoon that directly communicates with him but there's a
(barely) living queen in the cave! Could have been awful, could have
been Matrix 3 awful (remember giant talking face with ominous voice?),
but no. It worked. Largely because there was no queen voice, neither
physical nor in Ender's head and also not the easy way out by
explaining everything in a telepathic 'vision' (which again could be
expected from a Hollywood production) - and because the creature design
was really well done, perfectly fitting the description of "beautiful
yet terrible". So as a fan I would have wanted this to be 3 hours
longer or a trilogy, but as it is, I'm really pleased with the result
which is far better than could be expected, with some astonishing
anti-mainstream choices. I have no idea how people who haven't read the
book will view it, but all others should see it.One last thing: Lots of professional reviewers talk about this film as
being made for a teen audience - that's incredibly stupid. This is a
film for a (mentally) mature audience of whatever age.
