8
Quite possibly the most ambitious film of the year - Cianfrance has secured a position as one of the best

Derek Cianfrance well known for his riveting film Blue Valentine (2010) 

is back at it again giving us a breathtaking look at the lasting 

consequences of the decisions we make. The Place Beyond The Pines is an 

enthralling crime thriller that stretches over generations - a 

beautifully crafted familial drama.



Quite possibly the most ambitious film of the year The Place Beyond The 

Pines is about Luke (Gosling), a stunt motorcycle rider performing at a 

low-grade carnival. While the tattooed Gosling's carnival goes through 

New York he runs into an old fling, Romina (Eva Mendes) and is shocked 

to discover in his absence she gave birth to his child. Luke growing up 

without a father feels obligated to provide for his son Jason so he 

decides to move nearby and it doesn't take long before Luke needs more 

money and resorts to robbing a bank with his crooked boss (Ben 

Mendelsohn). As you can imagine things don't exactly go to plan once 

Avery (Bradley Cooper), a young and upcoming police officer, is 

assigned to the case. To much surprise of the audience, shortly after 

being introduced to Avery Cianfrance switches its narrative focus to 

him and his family; a very risky move however the execution of the 

technique is flawless. The story - now centered on Avery – follows him 

trying to expose corruption within the department and making a name for 

himself. With his strong desire to essentially become his father Avery 

becomes detached from his wife and son. The final act of the film takes 

place 15 years later and focuses on two high school students Jason 

(Dane DeHaan) and AJ (Emory Cohen) – Luke and Avery's kids. 



Unfortunately the narrative switch isn't as charming as the first one 

and the film loses energy it spent so long building. It's not a movie 

breaking issue because it is just such a pleasure to watch DeHaan 

(Lawless, Chronicle) on screen. Last year he became my favorite young 

actor and clearly he's not slowing down. Gosling once again a 

mysterious, talented young man who resorts to robbing people for money 

(Does Drive ring a bell?) does as well as usual in his performance but 

nothing out of the ordinary for him. He'll play this same character 

until people get sick of it. Cooper is the shining star of the film 

though. There is no person that is going to leave this film not 

wondering where this actor was hiding for his early career. The Place 

Beyond The Pines is a real game changer for him. The rest of the 

supporting cast stand their ground making the film extremely enjoyable.



Derek's ability to bring such realism to his characters is seamlessly 

met with a more mature visual style this time around making The Place 

Beyond The Pines his finest achievement yet. The films stunning 

cinematography was brought to us by Sean Bobbitt (Shame), his work is 

just fascinating to watch; every shot handled with such precision. The 

film is brilliant, breathtaking and above all innovative. With this 

intensely layered drama of fathers and sons Cianfrance has secured a 

position as one of the best. This really is storytelling at its finest.



8.5/10




