5
Well meaning but self-conscious post-9/11 war film

I really don't wish to offend anyone with this, but whenever you have a
film like "Lone Survivor" that resonates so strongly with the movie
going public, it's easy to be labeled a certain way if you don't follow
the film's attitude. I respect director Peter Berg's intentions; he
wanted to make a film about this group of soldiers performing their
duty, what they are trained to do and what so few are capable of, and
the consequences of that job. However, I feel like real life soldiers
are more humble than this film is subtle.The film's opening credits feature archive footage of actual Navy SEAL
training rituals, which enables the first portion of the film to feel
like an extended commercial for the branch, only with movie stars. I
wasn't surprised afterward to discover that Berg and his team were
given unprecedented access to military resources while making the
movie. You have clichéd narration by Mark Wahlberg in the beginning
along with some pretty cheesy opening segments that establish our
characters. Despite the star power, Ben Foster is the only one that
comes off with a lived-in presence, mainly due to his acting ability
with not much help from the narrowly minded patriotic script. Once the
four man team lands for their mission in the Afghan mountains, the film
gets slightly better."Lone Survivor" doesn't attempt to answer any big questions, like, what
were the soldiers doing there in the first place, or why is the longest
war in American history a failure? However, you can't fault the film
for this; that is not its aim. Instead, Berg and company boldly attempt
to show what it is like to be a Navy SEAL in the field. He creates a
visceral portrait that at times really puts you in their shoes and can
be hard to watch. There are two separate sequences of the soldiers
literally falling off a cliff that made me wince multiple times. But
these battle scenes are undermined by too much shaky hand-held camera
shots with quick cuts and zooms that can make it hard to understand
what's going on.My biggest problem with the film is the post-rock band Explosions in
the Sky doing the musical score. Their instrumental, contemplative and
profound music is at odds with the gritty approach the filmmakers take,
giving the action a sentimental and over-the-top quality. You only need
a few slow motion sequences with their music to understand why people
are so taken by the film. Berg used the band to score his 2004 film
"Friday Night Lights", which with their score, made high school
football look like a matter of life and death. Here, it can almost be
played for laughs.At the end of the day, "Lone Survivor" comes off more like "Act of
Valor" in an extended celebration of the branch it depicts, rather than
the cold, clinical and procedural approach of a film like "Zero Dark
Thirty". The final act of the story is very different from the real
life event. My theater erupted in applause when the Taliban villain who
loves to behead people gets killed. In real life, there was no such
threat on our main character's life once he was taken in by the
villagers. With exaggerations like these, and lines like, "You can die
for your country, I'm gonna live for mine," the film really doesn't do
a good job at being anything other than a feel good and proud patriotic
product. And don't get me started on the closing credits, with Peter
Gabriel's slow and over-the-top rendition of David Bowie's song
"Heroes". Not that there's anything wrong with such a film, but let's
not pretend that this is the greatest war film ever made.
