4
BLEH BLEH BLEH! Thats what I have to say to this movie.

Somehow, Hotel Transylvania feels unfinished. This film is suppose to
homage the classic Universial Horror Movie Monsters. But ends up being
your typical 2000's and 2010's clichéd kids fest about having fun and
stuff.So, one of Adam Sandler's films foreshadowed him to play Dracula in a
movie. Well, here he is playing Dracula who lives in 1895 (Not Bad
Impersonator) as he has a daughter who he must protect because of the
big bad humans. The monsters build a hotel/resort to protect her and
the monsters from the Humans.About 110 years later, his daughter Mavis (I think thats the wrong name
of the daughter of Dracula. I think its suppose to be Mary Or Whatever)
played by Selena Gomez always has wanted to go out in the world and
explore. She is turning 118 years old (I think 18 years old in Vampire
Years I guess) and her farther lets her out for like a few minutes but
tricks her into thinking humans are evil by building this town and
having zombies play humans. Anyways, this one human named Johnny played
by The Lonely Island's Andy Samberg finds a way through and Dracula
dresses him up like a monster and pretends he is the party planner.But uh oh! Johnny and Mavis are getting a close relationship together!
Trying to get him out of the place fails obviously and the "Chaos" he
creates still goes on.The animation is 50/50 on this picture. For The Positives, each
Character has his/her own unique design. Frankenstien's Monster is blue
instead of the regular Green and he wears a Hawaiian shirt. For The
Negatives... Ill get to that right now.I feel that there is too much stuff on screen for me to sink in. Yeah
it looks good but it doesn't mean that I will care if a room is highly
detailed.The characters are sometimes amusing but not really funny. In one
"Joke" Frankenstien's Monster's body comes in half and sneaks up behind
the Mummy (Ceelo Green) and farts behind him. Oh. Yeah. Very Funny.
VERY FUNNY.Characters I feel don't emote enough. For Example, if there are 6-8
characters on screen and two are talking, and the other 4-6 are just
standing there, they will have the same dumb expression on their face
for the rest of the scene.Also, if you are beginning to watch Monster Movies, don't start with
this one. Go watch Horror Of Dracula or Bride Of Frankenstien first.
Because if you watch this first, you don't know anything about the
characters as they don't explain their traits. Why should we care about
characters we don't know anything about? The actors (Most of them) are
Adam Sandler's friends. David Spade and Kevin James are examples.There is one plot hole that I must point out. The Invisible Man is
well, invisible for most of the movie but he wears glasses so we can
see him. In one scene, he wears shorts and then someone pulls them down
and he is embarrassed. So was he naked all this time? Does he wear
invisible clothes? If so, why is he wearing Visible clothes? Running
gags are unfunny as its like Oh Dracula Gets Mad and Oh Johnny is
having fun.The Ending isn't Even an Ending. Its just a stupid music video with
lyrics that don't make no sense. Its just ZING ZING ZING and whatever
the lyrics are.I liked it the first time I watched it which was a few months ago, but
now I don't like it anymore. The acting is alright, the animation is
OK, but the movie fails to do anything neat with these monsters in the
situations they get into.But there is one scene that I liked. Maybe two. The Wolfman (Steve
Buscemi) eats a bunch of sheep that is in the road and one scene where
There is this Female dressed as a mummy walking by and The Mummy is has
the I WANT face.Thats basically it. I don't want to overwrite to 1,100 words so Ill
just leave at this. Hotel Transylvania is a unfinished movie with no
ending, plot holes and characters we don't care about.49/100 C-
