1
Dr. Generic Superhero Movie

Let me get this out of the way first. Yes, the visuals and special
affects were amazing. It was nice and polished. But that is a given for
a super hero movie. You can CGI a hurricane or atomic bomb if you
wanted to. Pretty colors are standard.Yet, what is not cool is Marvel and Disney producing this cliché trash
year after year. And,boy was this movie predictable. It was filled with
plot convenience and plot amour as if they think the audience are a
bunch of monkeys. First, the backstory was rushed and poorly done. They show him do ONE
operation to establish he loves his hands. Then, he loses his hands
after screenshots of his manhattan loft and Lamborghini. And why should
we feel sorry for him? Cause he is rich and has the means to retire or
just teach brain science? Screw convincing backstory, we need to rush
and spend the budget on pretty colors. It was insulting to expect we
should be vested in this character. Then, after Dr. Gary Stu moves east he meets the right people at the
right time in overcrowded Tibet in 2 minutes. Out of plot convenience,
they train the guy cause maybe they were bored. An few moments he is a
martial arts master. In his first fight, the bad guys dispatch all the
ally wizards, but Dr. Strange as a rookie gets a 10 minute fight scene
and masters all the magical items at the most convenient time. He gets
a magical cape to solve all his problems and even fight for him. I
don't mind overpowered assholes like superman or Thor cause you know
what you are going to get. But, Dr. Strange has a horse shoe up his ass
or the screenplay was written by a 13 year old.From then on, the movie is save the earth from Doomsday with people
pulling random powers out of their ass. I like rules in super hero
world. It's someone of a level playing field in batman or even some
other marvel movies. But, in Dr. Strange, the possibilities are endless
cause it's magic. So, what is the point of even caring. Here is some
time travel. Here is some magic spears. Here is some magic portals.
Let's fly. The movie is literally just special effects and you will get
bored.They are not original effects either. If you have seen inception, you
have seen Dr. Strange. If you have seen any Harry Potter movie, you
have seen Dr. Strange.Overall, I think this movie is crap and you could find some equally
entertaining videos. Don't feel bad if you take out your phone to check
email or multitask watching this in theatres. Your fellow audience
isn't going to be missing critical scenes from getting distracted. You
could literally walk out and walk back in for 10 minutes and know what
is going on, it is that cliché and generic. Avoid this movie and wait
till it is available on Redbox.
