6
An Extremely Unsettling Experience

Quite honestly, it's very rare that a film unsettles me, so this is big
of me to say, but I actually had to turn my head throughout my viewing
of this film. Now streaming on Netflix, Gerald's Game is the latest
Stephen King novel to receive a feature film adaptation, and while I
probably won't find myself ever revisiting this movie, it's worth a
watch if you can stomach it. Movies like the Saw sequels that have
mindless and senseless gore will audience members in laugher, but when
a film really brings you into its atmosphere and makes you care about
what's happening, the gore can feel very realistic, which is why I
caution my recommendation of this movie as a whole. Here is why
Gerald's Game is impressively hard to watch. Although it may seem impossible to spoil a movie like this, the
over-arching story is actually a spoiler itself. To put it simply,
Gerald's Game is about a wife and her husband as they travel to a lake
house in order to juice up their marriage. After handcuffing his wife
to the bed in hopes of pleasuring her, a series of events lead to her
being trapped on the bed, alone. Exploring her tragic backstory, while
simultaneously showing her struggles throughout her current situation,
there's absolutely nothing pleasant about this viewing experience. This
is actually quite an impressive piece of storytelling.While this dark and twisted story will leave many probably not wishing
to finish the movie, there's no denying that director Mike Flanagan has
crafted another tense film. Helming solid horror flicks like Hush and
Ouija: Origin of Evil, I knew that this film was in good hands, even
though I truthfully didn't know much about it when going in. Flanagan
does a wonderful job in sucking you into this premise, and I believe
this easily could've been a very boring idea, even though my experience
of this overall film did drag a bit. Although that should be a minor
complaint, this aspect is precisely what will keep me from watching it
a second time. I'm all for a movie taking its time to tell a worthwhile story, but I
found myself bored quite often throughout the majority of the film. By
the time the third act had hit, I was still very intrigued with what
was going to happen next, but I wasn't as invested. Yes, the conclusion
is satisfying, but even for a mere 100 minute runtime, I think it
could've been shaved to about 80. From it's near silent score, to great
direction, everything about this movie is atmospheric and well-done,
but I wasn't sucked into this premise like I wanted to be. In the end, this is a hard movie to recommend, because even though the
premise itself is interesting, it's very slow and it has some pretty
brutal imagery that I even have issues with, and that never happens to
me. Gerald's Game is a nice little thriller that's meant to unnerve its
audience, and while it does just that, it's also a tedious experience
in my opinion. There isn't much I can say without ruining the movie,
but I'll warn you by stating that my description of it is unsettling at
times won't even begin to cover it for some people. Overall, this is a
well-made film with a solid ending, but I just wasn't invested enough
to ever feel the need to watch it again. It's worthy of the praise that
it's receiving, but it just wasn't for me.
