7
I'm not a contrarian, but

With a star studded cast, featuring the likes of Michael Fassbender,
Penelope Cruz, Cameron Diaz, Javier Bardem and Brad Pitt, and directed
by Ridley Scott, with a script from one of the greatest American
novelists alive, Cormac McCarthy, obviously I went to see "The
Counselor" on face value alone. Admittedly, aside from the fact that
this is not a very cinematic endeavor, the first half of this film is
pretty bad. That is to say the first act and a half is far too cryptic
for its own good, with dialogue that is in love with its own double
entendres and lines which sound as though they would be more at home in
a novel than spoken aloud by human beings. But, if you're patient
enough to stay with this film until the second hour, you will be
rewarded by witnessing how McCarthy and Scott weave this almost
action-less tale together, quietly guiding audiences into a brilliantly
disturbing and hypnotic finale. The performances (the standout coming from Bardem) are all fine here.
These are all great actors, so what else would you expect? Same goes
for the direction. The wildcard with "The Counselor" was always
McCarthy's transition from novel to feature film scriptwriting; a
transition that was a first act failure on the grounds of dialogue
alone. In that same breath, his high caliber story of a lawyer who gets
involved in drug trafficking and his masterful construction redeems him
almost entirely by the time it's all said and done. As I alluded to before, there is not much action here, which may give
the illusion to some that sequences are occurring but nothing is
progressing, which may also promote watch checking. But within this
conversation based film, as much as I would have preferred the dialogue
to have been handled with more subtlety, the subtext is always
interesting, gaining its momentum from the converging stories within
the second half. Final Thought: "The Counselor" is the film equivalent of an artichoke.
You either like it or you don't. And both are understandable. Maybe one
day, once all of the critical heat dies down, history will look more
kindly on this movie. But for now, there will be flaws within it that a
majority of mainstream audiences just won't be able to forgive. Written by Markus Robinson, Edited by Nicole I. Ashland
