1
"Transformers: The Last Knight" Is Worse Than "Age Of Extinction!"

"Transformers: The Last Knight," the dreaded fifth movie in the 

Transformers series is supposedly the last to be directed by Michael 

Bay and the last to star Mark Wahlberg. Wahlberg plays his character 

Cade from the previous one. The "attempt" at a plot for this movie goes 

something like this: Cade comes into possession of an ancient 

Transformers artifact called the Talisman and he is the "chosen one" to 

carry out a "quest" for the transformers, while this chick named Vivian 

has to acquire Merlin's "staff" because for some reason she is the 

"only one who can wield it" and Optimus Prime heads to Cybertron to 

find out "where he and the transformers came from and what they're 

doing on earth." THAT'S this movie's plot. Lol this movie thinks it has 

a plot. 



This movie is completely incapable of telling a cohesive story. There 

is no beginning, middle, or end. It throws plot threads at you and 

expects you to roll with them. The most illogical plot devices occur in 

this movie. NOTHING makes any sense. It is so convoluted that the movie 

thinks the audience are idiots. How many times was I reminded of what 

the plot was throughout the entirety of this atrocity? I counted at 

least 32. Nothing of importance happens. Nothing is interesting, 

nothing is entertaining. 



The characters are so thinly written and poorly developed I didn't care 

who lived and who died. At this point in the series, I DON'T CARE ABOUT 

THE DAMN HUMANS! Just give us a movie about Transformers, not about 

humans. None of them are likable AT ALL. Everything involving the 

military, the government, Anthony Hopkins, it's all pointless! The 

movie spends so much time and energy on all the stuff everyone 

complains about with these movies that none of it comes across as not 

appealing, but rather annoying. It's an insult to our intelligence. 



The action scenes are the same lazy action scenes the other four 

Transformers movies feature. It's stuff that appeals only to teenagers 

who do not know how a movie is crafted. Teenagers like action and 

explosions and no talking, story, characters, or emotion. This movie 

appeals to those teenagers. There I said it again. Watching stuff just 

blow up and blow up and blow up and blow up and blow up and blow up 

continuously for two and half hours is extremely boring, especially 

since it's the only thing that has happened for five Transformers 

movies in a row. There is no entertainment value to be had just 

watching stuff blow up for a bloated and overlong runtime.



And yes, the runtime is too long, YET AGAIN. Luckily, it is shorter 

than the fourth one which was a very drab and dreary two hours and 

forty-five minutes. This is about fifteen minutes shorter, but it 

easily could have been an hour shorter. Nothing content wise justifies 

the runtime of this monstrosity. It's still overstuffed, overlong, 

dreary, boring, and exhausting, just like the previous three. I'll give 

the first one a pass since I actually enjoy the first one. 



This has all the Bay-isms in it. The typical stereotypes, the typical 

humor, and the typical dialogue, all of which is stupid, offensive, and 

insulting. S many characters are made fun of in this movie for being 

different or having different accents you thoroughly understand why 

NOBDOY LIKES MICHAEL BAY. He is racist, sexist, and doesn't care about 

the audience. He cares only about himself and no one else. It shows.



The two girls in this movie, in typical Michael Bay fashion, are all 

hotted out. The young girl is like 14. In what world is this right? Her 

tits just hang out the entire movie. The other chick just looks like a 

porn star. That's what this series has come down to folks, strippers 

and porn stars!



Optimus Prime is literally in the movie for ten minutes to just say his 

name three times so that we don't forget about him and who he is and 

completely forget that this movie gives him the most sudden shift in 

character motivation I have ever seen, more sudden than Batman in 

Batman V Superman. If you came to see him wreck house, he is a total 

waste in this movie. Quite frankly, none of the Transformers really don 

anything in this movie. They all just kind of hang out and chill and 

insult each other with stereotypes.



This is one of the worst of the year. I felt like I lost IQ points 

watching this movie. It is a loud, dumb, idiotic, incoherent, chaotic, 

soulless mess that appeals only to teenagers who like nothing but 

action and explosions and die hard fans of the series. It is worse than 

Age of Extinction. 



I'm just gonna give "Transformers: The Last Knight" an F-. Yes that is 

now officially a grade.


