10
McQueen's epic is beautiful and tragic anchored by sensational performances...

Read More @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com)One of the things that have been thrown around for months now is the
notion that awards season voting bodies won't respond to it because
it's too "difficult" to sit through. Let's define difficult, shall we?
Is it difficult to see the first openly gay politician gunned down by
his closeted colleague? Is it difficult to see a reformed convict put
to death by our country for his crimes? Is it difficult to see a mother
choose which one of her children dies during the Holocaust? I'd argue
that these answers add up to a resounding yes. Yet, no one threw those
phrases of "too difficult" around.I've watched hundreds of films throughout my short 29-year history and
I've seen some difficult cinema. Steven Spielberg's "Schindler's List"
can make anyone quiver in shame as it shows the despicable reality of
the Holocaust. Paul Greengrass' "United 93", which is almost an
emotional biopic of America's darkest hour, makes me want to crawl up
into a ball and cry. And finally, Mel Gibson's "The Passion of the
Christ", one of the highest grossing films of all-time, shows the labor
of our sins fleshed out into the beaten skin of an honest man. And
still, no one threw these hyperbolic terms out saying, "it's too hard
watch." Is it because this is an American tragedy, done by Americans?
Is it the guilt of someone's ancestors manifesting it in your tear
ducts? I can't answer that. Only the person who says it can. The
structure of this country is built on the backs and blood of slaves.
But slavery didn't just exist in America, it was everywhere. It was
horrifying what occurred for over 200 years and believe it or not,
still exists in some parts of the world TODAY.Now when approaching the powerful film by McQueen and distributed by
Fox Searchlight Pictures, there is a resounding honesty that McQueen
and screenwriter John Ridley inhabit. There are no tricks or gimmicks,
no cheap takes on a side story or character that is put there for time
filling or a life-lesson for Solomon to learn. Everything is genuine.
Is the film heartbreaking? Oh my God yes. Did I cry for several minutes
after the screening? Embarrassingly so. I was enamored the entire time,
head to toe, moment to moment.I have long admired the talent that's been evident in the works of
Chiwetel Ejiofor. I've known he was capable of what he has accomplished
as Solomon Northup and he hits it out of the park. He has the urgency,
worry, and drive to get home to his family and executes every emotion
flawlessly even when all hope seems to be lost. Where he shines
incredibly are the small nuances that he takes as the story slows down,
you notice aspects of Solomon that make him even more believable.As Edwin Epps, Solomon's last owner, Michael Fassbender digs down deep
into some evil territory. Acts as the "Amon Goeth" of our tale, he is
exactly what you'd expect a person who believes this should be a way of
life to behave. He's vile and strikes fear into not only the people he
interacts with but with the viewers who watch. As Mrs. Epps, Sarah
Paulson is just as wretched. Abusive, conniving, entitled, and I loved
every second of her.Mark my words; Lupita Nyong'o is the emotional epicenter of the entire
film. The heartache, tears, and anger that will grow inside during the
feature will have our beautiful "Patsey" at the core. She is the great
find of our film year and will surely go on to more dynamic and
passionate projects in the future. You're watching the birth of a star.Hans Zimmer puts forth a very pronounced score, enriched with all the
subtle ticks that strike the chords of tone. One thing that cannot be
denied is the exquisite camera work of Sean Bobbit. Weaving through the
parts of boat and then through the grassroots of a cotton field, he
puts himself in the leagues of Roger Deakins and Seamus McGarvey as one
of the most innovative and exciting DP's in the business. Especially
following his work in "The Place Beyond the Pines" earlier this year.
Simply marvelous.Oscar chances, since I know many of you are wondering. Put the Oscar's
in my hands, you have a dozen nominations reap for the taking. Best
Picture, Director, Lead Actor, Supporting Actor, dual Supporting
Actresses, Adapted Screenplay, Production Design, Cinematography,
Costume Design, Film Editing, Makeup and Hairstyling, Original Score.
There's also a strong and rich sound scope that is present. The sounds
of nature as the slaves walk or as Solomon approaches his master's
house is noticed. The big question is, can it win? I haven't seen
everything yet so I cannot yet if it deserves it or not. I can say, if
critics and audiences can get off this "difficult" watch nonsense and
accept the cinematic endeavor as a look into our own history as told
from a great auteur, there's no reason it can't top the night. I'm very
aware that seeing this film along with Steve McQueen crowned by Oscar
is nearly erasing 85 years of history in the Academy. Are they willing
and ready to begin looking into new realms and allowing someone not
necessarily in their inner circles to make a bold statement as McQueen
and Ridley take in "12 Years a Slave?" I remain hopeful.
