1
Tarantino Fires Blanks for Hours!

To begin, if you want to make it through the whole film in one sitting
it's best if you are locked and loaded with caffeine or some form of
amphetamine because it is very slow, very long, and very boring. Don't
get me wrong, I'm a big QT fan and usually enjoy the great slow, long
and creative dialog in his films, but sadly the "great and creative"
doesn't exist here. Normally I can't wait for his next film to come
out, but even after seeing the trailer a couple months back I said "uh
oh, this doesn't look anywhere near up to par." Little did I know what
an understatement of epic proportions that would be.As other reviewers have pointed out, the single positive aspect was the
beautiful wide landscape and horse drawn carriage scenes. Unfortunately
they only lasted a few minutes in total.Here are just a few of the things that really stuck out:- Not a single character (of the main eight) was likable in the least
bit so it never mattered who got killed. Kurt Russell is one of my
favorite actors and I wanted to like or root for him but even he
couldn't save this stinker. After a short amount of time I was wishing
everyone would start killing one another so this travesty would come to
an end.- At an early point I got the feeling QT made a bet with someone to see
if he could outdo himself by using the "N" word more times than in
Django. Or, more likely he has a sick fetish and loves to hear the word
as often as possible. Needless to say it is overwhelmingly painful
having to unnecessarily hear it hundreds of times. "But wait!" the
blind loyal Tarantino Kool-aid drinking followers will say, "it was
extremely racist back then and he's just being authentic to the times!"
Well in that case riddle me this: how is it that Sam Jackson along with
everyone else had perfect straight white Hollywood teeth which we got
multiple close- ups on??? If he was trying to be authentic all those
pearly whites would have been closer to gruesome than the straight,
white perfection we saw. Ever see Barry Pepper's character in the last
"True Grit"? Now that was realistic! There are plenty of other similar
things even slightly perceptive viewers will pick up on which were
simply wrong and out of place for the times. You'll see for yourself if
you decide to mosey on down this steaming poop trail.- Speaking of which and it doesn't last long, but as much as I love Zoë
Bell her Kiwi accent and NZ background here were also completely out of
place and just plain wrong. Not nearly as bad as the pathetic attempt
Tarantino made in Django at an Aussie accent but still completely
unreal for the setting. (At least he didn't include Jonah Hill in this
one.)- I don't even know where to begin with the full blown gay BJ scene out
in the snow. Many will most likely chalk it up to a typical Tarantino
shock value type of situation and he probably believes it's wild and
crazy and original, but it ends up as just another sad attempt at
trying to be any of those things. Either that or maybe he has more
personal fetishes he wants to portray to us (yet again) on screen?- Last but not least, there's a whole narration scene which was so
completely unnecessary it was insulting and offensive to the viewers'
intelligence. This, along with the regurgitated "chapter" style setup
appears to be him struggling to get back to the success and originality
of Pulp Fiction or Kill Bill, but simply ends up firing blanks. There
were no surprises in the least bit, everything was completely
predictable, and the casual viewers and hardcore fans alike who are
honest with themselves will be offended and want their money and 3
hours of wasted life back. That is, unless you passed out like a few
others I saw do halfway during my screening.With this spectacular regurgitated catastrophe watching the snow melt
for the three hours wasted would have been more pleasurable and
exciting than this debacle. Go and see "The Revenant" if you want a
real masterpiece. Only those who are blind cult followers should gorge
for hours on this yellow snow.
