8
a gentle portrait of a gentle artist

At first glance the film Maudie (2017) appears to be little more than a
story about famous Canadian painter Maudie Lewis, an arthritic woman
who painted childlike images in early 1900s Nova Scotia. But this
description is far too simple. The slow visual and emotional delights
of this film are the kind that catch you unawares while you are waiting
for the narrative to gather pace and reveal a bigger story.It is no spoiler to say that there is no bigger story: it's all about
small detail. The opening scenes show a crippled hand barely able to
hold a paintbrush, slowly etching the outline of a flower then filling
it with vibrant colour. Some may call it childlike, but Maudie (Sally
Hawkins) paints the world that she wants to see, not the one where
children throw stones at her because she is different. An orphan
mistreated by her aunt and brother, she is determined to break out,
find a jobjust be normal. She responds to a housekeeper advert and
meets surly fishmonger Everett (Ethan Hawke) who is too inarticulate to
send her away. He lets her stay in his one-room timber shack but makes
it clear that he regards her as lower than a farmyard chicken. He is
brutish and coarse, while she is determined to see good in him. Despite
her mistreatment, they form an unlikely bond and Everett allows her to
paint flowers and wildlife on his drab walls. Her talent is noticed by
a well-heeled New Yorker who surprises them by buying some paintings.
Maudie paints more, interest grows, Everett does housework to allow
Maudie to paint, and over time she becomes an internationally famous
artist.This simple tale is strewn with beautiful small moments. There is a
simple purity in seeing a hunched figure with withered hands slowly
creating a bright pretty world with gentle brushstrokes, then smiling
at what she sees. Maudie has a natural gift for finding warmth and
happiness in alien places. A particularly touching moment is when
Maudie learns the real fate of the baby she had lost at childbirth many
years before. Despite the apparent differences between the optimist
Maudie and the belligerent Everett, the two of them slowly evolve an
emotional inter-dependency. Sally Hawkins fills her role with
extraordinary expressiveness: with just a raised eyebrow or a wry turn
of her lip she emotes with brush-like precision on the audience's
emotional canvas. Ethan Hawke is excellent in playing an emotionally
stunted man of few words who communicates through body language and
grunted vocal tones. With minimal dialogue, so much that is not said is
felt clearly.The film's fine grain is not its only strength. The cinematography of
Nova Scotia village life seamlessly shifts from the landscape's natural
beauty to close-ups of Maudie in pain but smiling elfishly as she finds
good in all. Some may find it slow-moving, but the storytelling's
gentle pace is perfect in this portrait of a gentle artist.
