1
One of the Worst Films of all Time

With as many talented people involved in this project as there are, you
would think that at some point they realized what they were making
wasn't so good? That doesn't seem to be the case with Transformers: The
Last Knight. However bad you thought the last few Transformers films
have been, nothing can prepare you for the abomination of this film.Hearing about all of the silly subplots this film had beforehand had me
very skeptical about Michael Bay's ability to cohesively tell a story
amidst all of the CGI-heavy action. Not that any of the last 3
Transformers movies boasted an Oscar winning story, but they at least
had some sort of focus. Plus, Bay proved once again with 13 Hours that
he can make a real film with real characters. But all of that gets
thrown out the window with The Last Knight. Not only is it extremely
difficult to get behind any of the character's convoluted motives, most
of them don't even deserve to be in the film.It's one thing to have a few humans ground this bigger than life story,
it's another thing entirely to put the focus on the humans and have the
Transformers be ancillary characters. This isn't about Transformers at
all, it's about Mark Wahlberg's 'Cade Yeager' character being the
chosen "Last Knight" and Laura Haddock's 'Viven Wembley' being the last
surviving member of the Witwicky family. Because, you know, every
important person in the history of humankind has been a secret member
of the Witwicky's, protecting the Autobots from the world. Makes sense.
In fact, the most popular Transformer, Optimus Prime, is in the film
for maybe 15 minutes. Not that these films ever appealed to me, but I
didn't go to see a Transformers movie for the humans, I went for the
robots.On that note, Bay duplicates what he's always done with these movies is
make some impressive action sequences. It's the one thing I can't
really pick apart. Even with that said, the action sequences don't add
anything new to the series. Without any emotional connection to the
bots or any detailed differences between them, it's all a bunch of
nonsensical slow-motion CGI. Speaking of which, the constant slow
motion certainly doesn't help with the excessive runtime. Even with
Michael Bay coming out and saying it's "significantly" shorter than the
last 3 films doesn't change how unnecessary a 2 and a half hour
Transformers film is. Cut out the supporting characters who add nothing
(Izabella, Jimmy, that physicist guy), remove the Arthurian scenes
(because that was a missed opportunity, and god help us please take out
all of the misplaced unfunny humor. When the film pauses for the
audience to laugh and nobody even dares to chuckle, there's something
seriously wrong with the script.What's the solution here? We know Paramount will continue to make more
Transformers films, and rightfully so (they make over a billion), and
we know Paramount will inexplicably hire Michael Bay again (BC he's not
going to retire). How can they continue to hire a guy who dismisses any
nuances in the script with his own racist, sexist, and dated direction?
Did they not gather a writer's room with like 10 renowned writers for
this film? Well, I think the solution is to just stop going. I should
have stopped going after the last film, but I held out hope one last
time. As long as Bay is behind these films and directs without any care
in the world, then I won't be considered part of the audience. Enough
is enough. I'm done.-Horrible script-Same old lazy direction-Unnecessary characters and subplots that make the film feel like 5
hours-Even the action feels recycled-Still takes itself way too seriously0.6/10
