9
Best action movie with deep emotion and complex politics !

When i saw this movie release in theater, i cant wait to watch this
movie and i'm not disappointed at all. The movie starts with good
background story, i can see the bonding between father and daughter,
loving each other who are living in London, England. Then the tragic
bombing happened, unfortunately Chan daughter was nearby and killed by
that tragedy. Someone claim that was their deeds, and it is a terrorist
attack. I feel really sad and sorry with Chan, i can see he is really
suffered because of his loss. I'm so impressed with Chan acting in this
movie, it seems he really does his role so deep and emotional. I can
see Chan character who is broken, suffering, mysterious, have a dark
past and loss his patience with the investigation which take a long
time, because it involve some political issues with Ireland, who is in
peace agreement with England. I think this is one of the best Chan
acting performa in his entire career. And one more who is really take this movie to be one of the best in
2017 is Pierce Brosnan. He acts as Liam Hennesy, someone who is an
official government. The story then become more complex and slowly
reveal the connection between Hennesy and the terrorist. At one point,
i really love this movie because it not only pure action movie, but it
gives you many political issues and problems. When it involve politics,
everything becomes complicated. At another point, this movie has a good story with deep emotional
background story, and you can feel symphatic easily with those two main
characters. They have their own reason for what they are doing, and it
feels realistic and deep. The action is amazing too ! I think everyone
already know with Chan success in acting movies. We can see Chan who is
really skilled and dangerous, but already old and can out of stamina
easily. At last, i think all aspect in this movie is remarkable. The action
movie with deep emotional story and complex political issues makes this
movie really amazing. I recommend you to watch this movie asap, even if
you watch it twice, i think it will still be exciting !
