5
An Experiment in Comedy

That kind of fails...However, there is a great cast and a clever premise with some nice
twists and turns, but it still ends up disappointingly unfunny and
ungripping.This is very subjective and I know you shouldn't judge a comedy just on
how many lols it provokes, but it should be mentioned that in the
theater there were no significant laughs.The casting is great in every way (Allison Brie, Kate Micucci, John C.
Reilley and really everyone). And its a very funny idea to see people
like Aubrey Plaza and Fred Armison playing Medieval nuns and priests,
but they just didn't capitalize on it.The tone of dialogue is meant to be irreverent and modern, which it
was, but somehow it just didn't jive or contrast with the setting in a
way that worked. And it wasn't very funny. The style of the dialogue
was kind of an experiment (having them speak in completely modern
inflection with no effort to make them sound like they are from another
time period), and it failed. It was a little too heavy handed, or too
lazy. They should have taken a cue from Woody Allen's comedic period
piece "Love and Death" which plays with a lot with different tones of
dialogue (Woody Allen's character himself always being the neurotic
modern voice). But doing that would require something which this film
has little of: subtlety.And then all the inspirational music at the end like we're watching a
totally different kind of movie. A bit confused.Like many period pieces, this film tells more about the period in which
it was made (our time), than it does about the period in the film (the
middle ages). One projects oneself onto the object in view and what you
seem to be ridiculing is actually yourself. So this film is filled with
an angst, malaise, and boredom that is very modern, very millennial.
America has been projecting its ideals onto the whole world for a long
time, just as Hollywood projects our modern mentality onto every epoch
it deals with. Its very very hard for people to actually have empathy
for cultures they don't know or understand and its very hard for modern
people to have any grip on what life was actually like in previous
ages. We only seem to project our own obsessions onto everything.And this is fine b/c this is a farce and no one really goes to the
movies looking for an actual history lesson, but unfortunately that's
where we seem to get so many of our lessons (and unconsciously form our
opinions).Much of this is just ranting and besides the point. Great cast, funny premise, but completely misses the mark.
