7
A Shockingly Efficient Franchise Revival

Often pushed to a second tier among other iconic horror franchises like
Friday the 13th, Halloween and Nightmare on Elm Street, the murderous
misadventures of Charles Lee "Chucky" Ray have been just as persistent
and influential as those other game changing series. But Chucky, so too
like Jason, Freddy and Michael, these characters have had their fare
share of missteps in terms of quality, and in many cases saw their
franchises descend into unintentional self parody. The Child's Play saga has seen a similar trajectory, with the 1988
original still standing as a horror classic, it's immediate predecessor
coming off as passable but more or less a carbon copy and the third as
a junky, bland mess. After a seven year hiatus, the surprisingly
satirical Bride of Chucky arrived along with a perfect Jennifer Tilly
as Chucky's partner in slaughter. Things again took a turn for the
worse in Seed of Chucky which aimed to amp up the camp of Bride but it
came off as a grating and, ironically, childish. Almost 25 years on we now get Curse of Chucky, a direct to home video
instalment – a rather unceremonious release which certainly did not
instil confidence in this horror fan. Well, you can consider my mouth
shut as this is not only a strong, well crafted fright flick, it's
easily among the franchise's best entries. Curse of Chucky takes the
more gruesome elements that worked so well early on, some of the
parodic flare of Bride and then even goes on to subvert horror norms
and cliché. This is a film that knows firmly where it stands and the
expectations of its audience and uses those preconceived notions to
surprise in a number of ways. The biggest and most pleasant realization I made from the onset is how
well crafted Curse of Chucky is, from the art direction that brings
life to your typical isolated home (at which our bloody events can
transpire) the composition of shots which expertly use every angle in
the book to bring complexity to the carnage and its generally polished
look. It certainly doesn't bare any resemblance to most home video fare
that looks as if it were shot in somebody's basement. But the
accomplished aesthetics only serve as the launching point for some
clever prods at the genre, some fun kills and a thorough grasp on its
own franchise roots. One of the things Curse of Chucky is finally able to figure out is how
to present an adult protagonist that would believably be in peril when
facing off with a pint sized doll. Our heroine comes in the form of
Fiona Dourif, daughter of Chucky's voice, the iconic Brad Dourif (whose
cackling laugh still brings a weird smile to my face after all these
years). Daughter Dourif's Nica you see is confined to a wheelchair,
putting her quite literally on even ground when the climax rolls
around. There is a young girl about, who serves as the vessel through
which Chucky's evil rumblings are heard, but this is more about Nica,
and it all works rather well. In the end, it really comes as no
surprise that this entry is penned and directed by Don Mancini who has
written every entry in the Child's Play franchise. Even though he is so
close to the series and its central character, he has clearly taken the
time to step back and re-approach his baby in new ways. It's not
something you see too often from someone who has been involved with
something for so long. Then we get the funny, subversive elements to the story which plays
against our expectations, such as the role of a promiscuous nanny, who
gets the knife and when and fake-out scares and potential deaths.
Constructed in the way it is, Curse of Chucky should easily please fans
of the franchise but also win over general fans of horror who are tired
of seeing cookie cutter productions. There are certainly conventional
elements at play, but it's all pulled off with a great deal of flare. As for Dourif's Chucky, he's as vulgar, funny and creepy as ever, and
even when delivering more simplistic lines reminds us why the character
has persisted. There will certainly be some who will overlook the more
clever elements of Curse of Chucky and hone in on what remains
ordinary, but for me it was time well spent and easily introduces a new
spark to the franchise and shows there is life yet in everyone's
favourite killer doll.
