4
Oh dear what a mess

I don't even know where to start but if I would have to choose a single
word to describe this movie, "mess" would do just fine. Shortly, for
lovers of mindless kung-fu action, this movie is watchable but gives
viewer very little satisfaction. Don't let the good cast and well known
game franchise fool you. This is not a good movie. Sitting for the
whole two hours was a painful experience and at around 1:30 mark, I
prayed that the movie would just finish.Overall the plot seemed complicated but actually, it's paper-thin chase
of an mythical "apple" and "good" vs "evil" in a very stupid context.
The complicated stuff comes from the fact that nothing gets explained
to audience, things just happen while camera is shaking. Perhaps the
gamers know a bit better what is happening, but I'm sure most of them
are not content with this crappy movie anyways. Essentially, we have
some fancy "virtual reality" gizmo that allows the user to jump in and
"live the past" of a guy who died 500 years ago in Spain. I don't see
how that could be technically possible even after a 1000 years but
fine, at least its not super used concept. Actually that apparatus was
the only even remotely original idea in the whole film. Fassbender gets
lured to that device quite easily considering things, goes back in time
and starts killing people to "stop the violence", as the bug eyed
female doctor explains so seriously. Now that is ludicrous. Actually,
the line between good and evil in this movie is non-existent and I
didn't root the "good guys" at all.When Fassbender is in the machine, he kills a lot of people in action
sequences we have seen 100 times. We have some parkour stuff and saber
swinging in ancient Spain in scenes stolen straight from Prince of
Persia (video game too with movie adaptation that is 10 times better)
and plenty of other films. Our hero is a super human killing machine
that can take more bad guys out than Spiderman without breaking a
sweat. Of course this is a game movie but still, I'm getting numb of
this bs. And again, since its the year 2010+, we need to have EQUALLY
strong female side kick that can easily take men double of her size
down like flies, can jump as high as the male counterpart and can do
all the same tricks. Sorry, but women just don't match men in any type
of physical action no matter what year we are living. But surely,
Hollywood needs to carter the feminist audience too.This movie has no character development, no deep moral story, has
mostly crappy dialogue, its unimaginative, incoherent and bloated. What
the movie has is over-the-top action and "dramatic" orchestral music
booming all the time, while still managing to be boring. Fassbender
does what he can with the material, Jeremy Irons is there for nothing
(just to getting mocked by some inferior actress), never before heard
or cared Marion Cotillard who has too much screen time and is
completely wooden and emotionless, Brendan Gleeson has about 5 minutes
of screen time, wow, and still listed fourth in the credits. I don't
know why these great actors went to this crap-fest of a game movie. Are
they short on cash? At least the visuals for the movie look good but
don't they always in modern movies. Really hard to find positive points
here.This is honestly the worst movie I've seen in theaters. Yesterday this
movie had a 6.8 rating here. Today, 6,6 and I'm expecting it goes down
even further since generally people (even gamer kids) are not that
stupid.
