1
Very predictable, fake copy of "Taken 1"

For me it looked too fake. Especially when Liam escaped from Albanians.
Bad guys were too idiot not to sit and keep an eye on him. And the girl
blowing bombs all over in Istanbul was too funny. Mainline:Movie is very predictable, if "Taken 3" comes out then I better stay
away from it, since I exactly know what is gonna happen next. Again
same story: His daughter will be kidnapped and CIA agent will come and
get her. I think next one will be in Palestine or some other country
that is against Muslims, or it might be in Vietnam. Indeed it did not
have to involve Muslims there. Muslims are not friends with US and I am
so tired of it. I see it in the news and in such freaking movie too
:(((And dude was a hero of all times, before it was King Kong now it is
Liam Neeson. He got couple alcoholic friends who can solve issues and
they got connections in Embassies all over the World. Plus I hate it
how they show Istanbul police. I been to Istanbul and i have seen how
strong and good looking was police in turkey. But in this movie they
are riding some old small cars and tripping on the road :(( Like one of
those France cops used to drive in 1960It was funny how Yellow cab in Turkey simply went inside US embassy
without any problem. Totally fake.Conclusion: I was very disappointed. This actor was one of my favorite :( He looked
too old and wheww...when he said it : " I will be back " or when he
said it " I will go and do I was taught to do ( or smth like
that,meaning he got trained to kill and he do not know anything else in
this world )" ==== it was fake, disgusting, and too old fashioned
phrases. It was from Terminator... It was before we used to like it
when actor says smth very cool... But these days we expect and like
movies to be more humble and to shut your mouth and do the damage. I
mean exactly this: Keep it gang, keep it cool and do not tell us you
are trained very very well...And should we think Albanians are such nerds? It looked from their
faces they are born killers. And how come they can't shoot even
straight :(Too tired of politics involving movie...I was on the side of Liam and
his daughter on Taken 1. But here Taken 2 I was hoping at least the
story gonna end with gangs gonna kill Liam. But this America(n) likes
to show how strong and well trained CIA ex-agent - he can destroy
anything and anyone in Asia :(Sad very Sad Pls make it more real not fake.
