3
Much Ado about nothing......

There are three previous reviews about this film ranging from 3 of 10
to 9 of 10. I won't bore you with the lengthily details of the entire
film as one reviewer did. (Would not be surprised at all if He/She had
some direct connection with the making of the film, etc) I am always up for cerebral, off color, non conformist, anti-Hollywood
type films and praise those who make them. I am not, however, a fan of
films that aim high to be recognized as deeply artistic and thought
provoking when the film fails miserably in achieving that goal.There are at least four big name actors in this mess and there is
hardly any dialog through almost 2 hours of run time. This is not to
say Dialog makes a film great. Often silence and facial expression and
body language speaks volumes. Sadly, this is not the case in "the Bad
Batch". BORING is the first word that comes to mind to describe this
film. The story line and plot are all over the place. Th film is set in
a supposed Apocalaptic setting with a two caste system. One being
cannibals, the other the privileged, if you can call it that. To categorize this film as "Romance/ Sci-Fi" is utterly misleading.
There is absolutely No romance in this film nor is there any Science
Fiction in it anywhere. I would categorize this film as a Dark Drama.
The only redeeming quality of the film is the score in my opinion. None of the story telling is explained or resolved and you meander
through the film (as do the characters) with no purpose. Here is my
take on the film.....Girl is captured, has her leg And arm amputated
barbarically, which is used for food BTW, by a group of cannibals. Girl
escapes, finds woman in desert, kills her and takes daughter, head
cannibal sets out to find daughter, finds girl sans two limbs, sets her
out on a mission to find little girl. Girl finds little girl at another
"camp" of the higher caste and recovers little girl, meets Said Gorilla
cannibal in desert, film ends!Two hours of time I'll never recover. Swallowing glass would be less
painful then watching this again. Reviewers can wax philosophical all
they want, "the bad Batch" is just plain BAD!
