6
Am I missing something?

I don't consider myself a movie expert or anything but I'd like to
think I know a good movie when I see one, even if it's not exactly my
cup of tea. Baby Driver was actually supposed to be. It had the
potential to be a decent action movie but I was suspicious from the
moment I saw it had 8.3 on here. I mean, what could have they done with
this movie to deserve such a high rating? So, just in case, I lowered
my expectations and, somehow, I still managed to be disappointed. Is it
possible I am not seeing the originality and perfection of this movie
that everyone keeps talking about?Let's go over the good parts first. The soundtrack, of course. I was
very pleased with the song choices and that alone has salvaged this
movie from a tempting lower rating than 6/10. Then, the action. One
could argue that is seemed forced in some cases, which is true, but
overall, I can appreciate the bad-ass driving scenes and the well
executed violent confrontations.Now it's time for the cons. To begin with, I feel like this had the
potential to be a great story and somehow it got boring before it even
began. The relationship between Elgort's (Baby) and Spacey's (Doc)
characters could have given some wind to the wings of this movie.
Baby's past could have done the same. I swear, there are so many things
which could have been used to make some sense out of the story and out
of the characters, but they just didn't elaborate on anything well
enough to interest the viewers. It's like they wanted this movie to be
so many different things that they ended up with a little bit of
everything which amounted to nothing much when put together. Onto the
girl. I just don't find her character believable nor do I see any
relevance of having her in the movie other that to slow down the pace
of it. I could go on about all the things which were ridiculous about
this love story, but then again, maybe I'm just too cynical to
understand it. Next stop, Spacey and Foxx. Come. On. Guys. I adore both
of them and I was hoping for either of them to be the highlight of this
movie. They were not. It felt like Specey couldn't be bothered to
deliver a good performance. I was half expecting him to keyser soze his
way out of it and turn the whole thing around and there was even a
perfect moment to do so. And then nothing. Foxx didn't do a bad job but
this character of his was already used in Horrible bosses so I can't
give him much credit for it.The list really could go on for much longer. I don't expect movies like
this to have relatable characters nor a reality based storyline, but I
do expect a level of consistency, which is something this movie is
lacking big time. I enjoy when a movie has more than one thing to offer
but this whole "love story from a musical on one side and a serious,
violent heist on the other", is just not working in a way I find
interesting.
