10
A lot of music and tears in this teenage romance tearjerker love story.

A Warner Brothers/MGM film. 'If I Stay' is a tearjerker film about a
teenage-girl who experiences an out-of-body experience whilst in a
coma.The teenage-girl is played well by Chloe Grace Moretz. As film opens we
discover that she is part of a sickly-sweet family that seems just too
perfect. Off out together, they are involved in an accident. Miss
Moretz's character, Mia Hall, comes to, but does not understand why she
is being ignored by the emergency services, as she stumbles about in a
dream-like state. Seeing herself, she starts to understand, as she goes
to the hospital. These scenes all occur at the start of the film, the
rest of the film is based at the hospital, with the majority of the
film being flash-backs.Director RJ Cutler has done a good job here. The scenes at the accident
are, as said, rather dream-like, thus capturing the confused state of
Miss Hall. Miss Moretz captures well the disorientation of her
character. Both Director Mr Cutler and actress Miss Moretz capture well
the out-of-body experience. As a disembodied spirit, Mia Hall has no
physical abilities thus travel can only be achieved via open doors etc.Thus, 'If I Stay' is completely different from 'Ghost' and 'Truly,
Madly, Deeply', both of 1990. Those films were about the interaction of
living breathing humans and the spirits of dead humans. Not so in this
film. 'If I Stay' does however share one thing with both of those other
films, a love story.Flashbacks tell us that the teenage schoolgirl Mia Hall, has fallen in
love with older boy Adam, played by Jamie Buckley. The two were
attracted to each other, and did fall in love, but were troubled with
what might be described as musical differences. Thus this film has a
major musical plot-line that reminds of the recently screened 'Begin
Again'. The films are similar in many ways, the major one being that we
viewers get to hear a fair bit of music. Mia and boyfriend Adam are
both musicians, though very different ones. However the music does
provide one further link to 'Truly, Madly, Deeply'.The two young lovers are ably supported by a great cast, all of whom
are good, but special mention should go to those playing family
members. Joshua Leonard plays Mia's father. He and the Director got the
flashback scenes just right, they are also funny, as we see the younger
wild rocker turn into the more sedate parent. Hair-styles in those
scenes was particularly good. Mireille Enos, playing the mother, has
some poignant scenes with her daughter. However the most emotional
scenes were with veteran actor Stacy Keach. He gives a stand-out
performance, particularly in one very emotional and very important
scene.Preparing for her role in Kick Ass (2010), Miss Moretz trained with a
stunt-crew for three months and also did most of her own stunts. For
her musical role in 'If I Stay', Miss Moretz is also reported to have
engaged in much musical study. Last year she gave a tremendous
performance in the 2013 remake of 'Carrie'. Here, in 'If I Stay', we
once again see Miss Moretz play a somewhat shy girl, that sometimes
seems dreamily unaware, but that at other times capture perfectly the
utmost depths of the rawest of emotions.Shauna Cross wrote the screenplay of the Gayle Forman novel. Director
RJ Cutler has done a great job. Outside shots, particularly those
featuring different seasons, were done well, ably capturing the sense
of passing time.This teenage love-story shares a supernatural spiritual love story like
'Ghost' and 'Truly, Madly, Deeply'. Like 'TMD' it also has some
hauntingly beautiful music. The film is also about music and could be
described as a teenage version of 'Begin Again'. If you liked any of
those films, then 'If I Stay' will appeal to you.This tearjerker deserves 10/10 but needs a hanky.
