4
Nicholas Sparks at his best ... er, uh, I mean same.

If someone were to tell me that the latest Nicholas Sparks
novel-to-a-movie adaptation would be one that starred two ridiculously
attractive actors playing characters who almost fall in love when a
secret from the past that can keep them apart is revealed nearly thirty
minutes before the movie ends ... I would say "No $--t! Have you not
been paying attention!?" Anybody who does not reside in a cave would
know this.Safe Haven is yet the latest of Sparks' novels to follow this same
"winning" (they continue to be profitable!) formula/pattern and it
rather saddens me this is director Lasse Hallstrom's SECOND Sparks film
as the (thrice) Oscar-nominated director has made GREAT films in the
past such as The Cider House Rules, Chocolat, What's Eating Gilbert
Grape and Salmon Fishing on the Yemen (I've also just realized his
greatest films have an edible word in the title).Safe Haven stars Julianne Hough (Rock of Ages) as Katie, a beautiful
young woman on the run from her past. Safe Haven also stars Josh
Duhamel (New Year's Eve) as Alex, a handsome widower and saintly father
raising two young children in a small, coastal North Carolina town.The two meet soon after her arrival in town and begin a friendship
(rather reluctantly on her part) after she meets him at the small
convenience store he runs -- his cute daughter runs the cash register!
-- as he helps her with an odd assortment of items and he answers some
even stranger movie-scripted questions. He even gets her a bicycle with
a basket on the front (which she takes as an affront) and he orders her
yellow paint. Wh-what? Exactly.Their entire relationship is contrived in a connect-the-dots Nicholas
Sparks pattern and the film's supporting players each have a single
purpose for the movie -- her jerk of an ex looking for her (David Lyons
- Eat Pray Love), his cop pal who can discover her secret in an instant
(Ric Reitz - Flight), his children to either look cute or get into
trouble, and her country neighbor giving her relationship advice on
Alex (Cobie Smulders - The Avengers).Hallstrom has made this better than most sappy melodramatic romances
(and Hough and Duhamel are both likable-enough stars) but Sparks'
over-the-top climatic children-in-peril moments have become
eye-rolling. The film is standard Nicholas Sparks malarkey and anybody
who has watched the movies based on his work knows they have much in
common. This can be good or bad depending upon the person.Beautiful actors? Check. Beautiful scenery? Check. Romance? Check.
Melodrama? Check. More melodrama? Check. A scene in or near the water?
Check. A young one in trouble? Check. Good story? ... uh, Bueller?
