6
Formulaic and passable

This movie had so much potential and yet, it falls flat on it's face. I
mean you have Batman and the future Jim Gordon being directed by the
guy who directed Warrior. What else do you need? Oh ya, a believable
story.DIRECTION - At the end of the movie when I saw the name Gavin O'Connor
and rechecked how I felt about the movie, I felt even more
disappointed. This wasn't what I was expecting. Nowadays you cannot
trust a movie on the basis of trailers. Truth be told, I was expecting
this movie to be the amalgamation of 'A Beautiful Mind' and 'Jason
Bourne' but it falls into the category of passable action movies that
I've seen in last few years like, 'Dead Man Down' or 'The Drop'. The
whole just felt so bland and formulaic. It was like he tried to present
us a puzzle but didn't have the capability to construct one. Every
single thing fell right into it's desired place, without explanation.
The director delved so much into the back-story of the accountant via
flashbacks that he shortened the time to explain what is happening in
the present day scenario. That obviously led to glaring plot-holes and
very less character development.SCREENPLAY - You bring in a complex character with a troubled past into
a shady scenario. Now tell me, why would you want to decode the
character through flashbacks? Let him stay that way because he is the
accountant. We don't need to know what he was and why he became what he
is through flashbacks. The 1st scene itself was enough to show the rift
between the mother and the father and also the relationship between the
brothers. There are so many flashbacks that I don't even know what the
current plot was. I could have watched it a second time but I don't
have the courage or the energy. As I mentioned earlier, these recurring
flashback scenes didn't leave space for the characters who are involved
in the case. Anna Kendricks' character felt so poorly written and
unnecessary. The dialogue was very flat and didn't have any weight.
When you're building a drama then conversations are very important or
the characters don't pop-up. On top of that, what did the investigation
lead to? If you think about it, if you subtract J.K. Simmons and his
side-kick from the entire film it wouldn't make a damn difference.ACTING - Ben Affleck is absolutely at his best right now. You give the
man anything now, he will absolutely nail it. Despite of the plot-
holes and no character development, this man stayed in character the
whole movie. Rest everyone was passable. Jon Bernthal is a great actor,
as I've seen his acting skills in the Daredevil, but here he is just
meh! Seriously, every other actor just played a few scenes to get their
paycheck and that's it. Ben Affleck had the most work and like I said,
he nailed it!FINAL VERDICT - Nothing much to watch here. Very sad to see so much
potential being wasted as if it doesn't matter. That's what bugs me. If
the producers have so much money, then hire good scriptwriters and make
a proper movie. I mean, you make an average movie and put up a good
trailer, the movie will remain in the theaters for what? One week? You
make a great movie, it will remain in everyone's minds forever.P.S. - I noticed the little Easter-egg, if it was one, of the Superman
comic in Wolff's cupboard.
