9
A superb film version of the beloved musical

If you don't like musicals or are not a fan of the through-sung style,
skip this movie. I will only irritate you (much like bombastic action
films torture me).But if you're a fan of Les Miserables or musicals in general, then
you're in for a treat.Many people have criticized Tom Hooper's direction. For me, I just
think these people have no idea what Hooper is doing, and do not
realize the effects of his work (with the help of Danny Cohen's
marvelous cinematography). The Dutch angles work very well, especially
during the Lovely Ladies sequences -- Hooper skillfully created a
surrealistic, nightmarish Paris for Fantine (and the audience), making
us feel queasy and uncomfortable and horrified, in some ways, for
Fantine. We have to realize that this is not a videotaped version of
the stage play or concert. This is a movie. Hooper said that he wanted
to create an extreme/heightened realism that is on the verge of being
surrealistic. I for one applaud his choice and I think it works
beautifully for the movie.Same with the close-ups. They created the kind of intimacy you won't
get on stage, and also provided the opportunities for the actors to do
their work. The result is amazingly personal, intense. Obviously it
works better for some actors than others (that's why we're thinking of
giving Anne Hathaway the Oscar, not Amanda Seyfried), but over all,
it's a great cinematic choice -- together with live recording... it's
emotionally powerful.I do have some gripes: certain hand-held camera shots could have been
avoided or stabilized -- there is really no need for them. The
barricade scenes can be somewhat chaotic and rushed. Unfortunately
Hooper has to work in the confine of the musical structure, and the
story is already almost 3 hours long. Also, they had to cut or shorten
some songs to fit the time frame - to those who have seen the show 30
times, it could be unsettling.The performances are excellent. Hugh Jackman carries most of the movie
with dignity and amazing versatility. He may not be the best singer in
the world to play Valjean, but he IS Valjean on screen -- his voice is
characterized to fit Valjean perfectly. His "What Have I Done" is a
revelation of what his song-and-dance man who is best known for
Wolverine can do.Anne Hathaway deserves all the accolades she is getting. Her "I Dream a
Dream" will become the de facto performance for those who will play
Fantine in the future.Eddie Redmayne is a surprise -- I know the actor can act, but I had no
idea that he could sing so well. And that he could sing and act at the
same time with such grace and charm. It's not an easy thing to
accomplish.Samantha Barks and Aaron Tveit have done Les Miserables on stage
before, and they are excellent in the film. Many stage actors can't
transition to the screen, but these two have succeeded (with a lot hard
work, no doubt).Amanda Seyfried is one of the weakest links in the movie. She is, of
course, lovely as the adult Cosette (Isabelle Allen is excellent as
young Cosette), even though the part is underwritten (in the film or on
stage). Her singing voice is okay, but not as strong as expected, and I
find her performance somewhat one dimensional. But she and Redmayne
have great chemistry together, and that's a good thing.Russell Crowe also is the weak link. He is a good actor and I think he
does his best with this role. But his rock-opera voice is jarringly
different from the rest and he just stands out like a sore thumb.
However, in the course of the movie he grew on me. In his final scenes
I can see the great acting (it's all in the eyes, people!). So while I
can't say he's the best Javert ever, I'll give him a pass.The supporting cast and background actors are all excellent.The production is rich and wonderful with great sets, great
cinematography, great costumes. Is it perfect? No. I haven't seen one single film this year that is
"perfect." I don't think that exists. At the end of the day (pun
intended), Les Miserables is all about the music, the characters, and
the emotions, and this film delivers. I expect many award nominations
for this film.
