1
This movie is one of the things wrong with the world today.

So you can tell I'm not a fan of this film just by my title and score.
The movie itself is okay at best. Emilia Clarke does a well enough job
with the role because the character she is playing is pretty much who
she is in real life; in other words, this role didn't require Emilia
acting much and that is a good thing because people are slowly figuring
out that she has a very limited range when it comes to acting. Towards
the end of the movie is when her limited acting range becomes apparent
thanks to the crying scenes, most of the scenes she does with tearless
crying which help to take you out of the movie. Don't get me wrong, her
acting isn't bad until the end when she is forced to show another
emotion other than bubbly. I should note the director does an excellent
job of hiding a good amount of Emilia's emotional scenes by having her
hug someone and then showing mostly the other person's face. I can
write a whole book on Emilia's overrated acting chops but I'm not here
to do that so let me carry on with this review. If it wasn't for the
ending, where we finally learn the real message of the film I would
have ranked the film about a 6 out of 10. But halfway into the film we
learn the quadriplegic character made a deal with his parents that he
will end his life after 6 months. During the film we learn this guy is
smart and etc, etc. Someone even points out that he could go back to
work if he wanted to but this guy is hell bent on killing himself for
the simple reason of which happens to be that he misses his old life so
he is giving up on this life. And apparently that is a good enough
reason to let the man kill himself. Great message to put out there into
the world. We recently lost Muhammad Ali. We all know about Muhammad
Ali's condition and we all saw the impact he had on the world both
before and in spite of his condition. He fought until the bitter end
and became more of a legend because of it. This movie encourages people
to take the easy way out. Now, I can understand how depression can play
a role in all of this but this character is a pretty boy with a sh!t
load of money.. and on top of that he found the love of his life and
she is more than ready to be with him forever. But his reasoning is
that he would only be a burden on her living her life. So yeah, this
movie pretty much matches the materialistic and self- absorbed nature
of what these modern times have transformed into. Whatever, the movie
is a chick flick at best so I don't care. Apparently suicide isn't
frowned upon when a quadriplegic is concerned. Moral of the story, you
have nothing to contribute to society once you become paralyzed. Maybe
this movie was funded by the government as a way of reducing the cost
of people with disabilities on healthcare. Euthanasia for the win!
Frankly, a disgusting message and an even more disgusting movie.
