6
Wish It Had Been Better

A well-made, workmanlike disappointment, much inferior to Haynes's Far
From Heaven. You knew where it was going and it went there. Along the
way there are no surprises from the two lead characters. The most
surprising thing, which lifts it above Lifetime territory, is that it
does not villainize the male characters. They have the values of their
time, to be sure, but the husband and the boyfriend mean well, while
the detective and Carol's lawyer are both matter of factly
professional. Her lawyer, in particular, does an excellent,
nonjudgmental job with what looks like a hopeless case.The most erotic scene in the movie is not the consummation but rather
the first lunch date, where Carol looks ready to swallow Therese alive
and Therese seems ready to jump right down her throat. The imbalance of
power in that scene is distasteful. As I grow older, I find that love
stories of any gender between an older sophisticate and a young naif
have either a predatory or a transactional vibe to them that puts me
off. Throughout, Carol knows exactly what she wants and is cool and
composed enough to wait for Therese to figure herself out, catch up and
provide it. At its least exploitative, this kind of relationship is a
bargain, where the elder provides education in return for rejuvenation.
And since this is a Patricia Highsmith story, material concerns are
part of the bargain. Carol's standard of living makes a powerful
impression on Therese from the outset, and she quickly grows used to
what it can provide By the end, Therese understands perfectly well who
she is, and some other women can perceive it. But the ending, when
Therese moves from a Greenwich Village party of impecunious young
bohemians to join Carol for dinner at the Oak Room, is set up in such a
way that we don't know whether Therese is opting for true love or for
the bigger and better deal. I'm not sure Therese knows either. For what is supposed to be a story of amour fou, it isn't fou enough.
The basic setup is Anna Karenina, but Harge isn't Karenin and nobody
throws themselves under a locomotive. The ending is not quite a happy
ending, more like happy enough given the circumstances. That may be
real life, especially in the social circles of Carol and her husband,
but, unlike Far From Heaven, there's no pathos here and no tragedy. I
give it a B.
