7
Vikander shines but overall it didn't connect with me as expected

The new cinema year has got off to a robust start with the new movie
from Tom Hooper ("The King's Speech", "Les Misérables"). We have seen many depictions of physical torture on the screen over the
years, from the interminable teen-slasher pics, through 'that chair
scene' in "Casino Royale" to the stylized presentations of Quentin
Tarantino and Martin Scorsese in films like "Reservoir Dogs" and
"Casino". "The Danish Girl" is also in its way a film about torture,
but more akin to the mental torture seen in films like "Buried" or
"Flightpath". What must it be like to be trapped with a sexual
orientation that you feel is not your own? To possess physical body
parts you don't believe you should have? And all in a time (the 1920's)
when an exposed ankle was considered slightly daring.Based on a true story, Oscar-winner Eddie Redmayne ("The Theory of
Everything") and Alicia Vikander ("Ex Machina") play a bohemian married
couple Einar and Gerda Wegener, apparently happily married and trying
for a child in 1920's Copenhagen. Einar is a renowned landscape artist
with his wife a struggling portrait artist living in his shadow. After
taking part in a cross-dressing modelling session, strong feelings are
awakened in Einar. As a bit of a 'game' Gerda encourages him to explore
the character of his alter-ego "Lili" further: a big mistake, as Einar
is swept into a spiral of confusion and self-doubt.Eddie Redmayne is surely up for another Oscar-nomination for his brave
performance as Einar/Lili, using his expressive eyes to great effect
and delivering a truly heart-rending performance. With all this said
however, I never quite believed I was watching the character of Lili
but more Redmayne acting the character. Perhaps this is unfair, as
Einar/Lili is such a bizarrely multi-dimensional person no one could
perhaps have played him/her to my satisfaction. But I suspect
(particularly as Redmayne won last year) this won't bring Redmayne the
Oscar double. Far more impressive for me was the delicious and delightful Alicia
Vikander, once more turning in a fantastic performance as the
increasingly desperate (both psychologically and sexually) Gerda. With
Rooney Mara, Vikander must be one of the brightest actress talents in
today's cinema. Also turning in a strong performance, in what is a very limited cast
list, is Matthias Schoenaerts ("Far from the Madding Crowd") as a
Parisian art dealer with a link to Einar's past. The omni-present
(sorry, that should read "hard-working") Ben Whishaw turns up again as
a party guest with an unhealthy interest in Lili and Sebastian Koch
(most recently seen in series 5 of "Homeland") plays Dr Warnekros who
is a pioneer in the new and risky business of sexual reassignment
surgery.Another star of the film is the luscious Danish capital, filmed in
vibrant colours, as if from the artists' palettes, by Danny Cohen, a
Hooper favourite. Also a big surprise to me was the gloriously
photographed Danish countryside, seen at the end of the film, with
mountains and seascapes I never knew existed.Another Hooper alumni, Alexandre Desplat, supplies the soupy but very
fitting score.While the film features a compelling story and much impressive acting,
I never personally felt as connected to the story as I was to "The
King's Speech". This isn't helped by a rather stagy script by Lucinda
Coxon that feels lightweight at times. Perhaps its because we are in
Oscar- season but, to me, it all felt a tad pretentious and (no pun
intended) could have done with a few snips in places to reduce the
running time by 15 minutes or so. That being said, and as an
alternative view, I should point out that my wife was in tears for a
good proportion of the film and disagrees vehemently with my views. I
say "my wife", but since watching the film she's started wearing braces
and smoking cigars – so I'm rather confused as to WHAT exactly is going
on. :-)(For the graphical version of this review, see bob-the-movie-man.com.
Thanks).
