9
A disturbing psychological thriller

Enemy is the latest thriller from Canadian director Denis Villeneuve,
and it stands as a hybrid mix of David Lynch and David Fincher at their
very finest. Enemy follows Adam (Jake Gyllenhaal) on a journey to find
his exact lookalike named Anthony, a terrible D-list celebrity. As his
investigation deepens, the mystery thickens and he is thrown into a
fray way above his head. What works in Enemy is Gyllenhaal's fearless
performance as a man who is searching to find who he really is. There
are a couple scenes that he has where is truly riveting and it becomes
so hard to take your eyes off the screen. It really is an explosive yet
very contained performance that I feel needs a lot of recognition.
Enemy marks itself as a film about identity and never knowing who you
truly are and the pressures of wanting to become something you're not.
While it remains as a heavy message, it still makes for a film that
almost demands repeat viewings. At 90 minutes even, the film moves and
never slows down enough for us to even breathe. Before we can even
question what is going on in one scene, Villeneuve throws us another
curve ball to contend with. While that may bring confusion to many
people, it is very welcoming to a viewer in the mood to do some serious
thinking. Anything beyond that, it may garner some negative responses
especially if you're not paying close attention. Enemy works well as a
psychological thriller, bringing some of the most disturbing images
I've seen on screen in recent years. This film is NOT scary, but it is
extremely uneasy and very creepy, especially towards the last twenty
minutes of the film, which had me holding my breath as we finally
discover the truth of what is going on.Overall, this is one hell of a film that really does almost require a
second (and possibly a third) viewing. I highly recommend it,
especially to fans of David Lynch's Eraserhead. The images are
memorable, the performances are very well rounded and this is just a
very very well done film.
