7
Paves a Promising path for a sequel

My expectations were very low for this movie. The reviews were rotten,
I could tell it was nothing like the book from just the trailer, and it
was cut from the ugly cloth of the Lightning Thief movie, despite both
films being based upon source material with limitless potential. After
watching this movie in the theater and bracing for Logan Lerman's
flawless portrayal of dirt, I ended up getting thrown a real treat. Not to say it was a really good movie. The acting ranged from good to
sickening. The plot was already cursed to be soiled due to the the
first film's failure at adaptation. Half the characters introduced in
the first novel, but not the first movie, came up this time. It was
nice to have Mr. D and Clarisse, and even Chris Rodriguez, make an
appearance on the screen. Despite this, the script itself was full of
corny lines (mostly uttered through the mouths of Logan Lerman and
Alexandra Daddario). Some of my favorite script moments were Tyson's
little comments here and there,("At least there's no line." and when he
sings an all too familiar song...)and then Hermes(Nathan Fillion) was
well adapted and written, and also portrayed well by the actor. Another
thing to note was the film's overall humor. In the first film, the
characters took the story so seriously, it was hilarious without their
intention. In this film, the filmmakers, writers and actors, actually
intend to have fun and be ridiculous, which makes the film more
worthwhile.I can't say the visual effects were the best, but they really weren't
that bad. Many reviewers site "video-gamey" CGI. Well, if it's video
game graphics, then it's the best video game graphics I've ever seen.
They aren't super-realistic, but the special effects are decent.I have
to point out that there was an awesome scene of CGI when the Oracle
explains the story of Kronos to Percy. This scene was creative and well
done, especially with it's stain-glass window style.The film's score (composed by Andrew Lockington) was pretty epic, but
not entirely memorable. It won't get much awards, but it was really
well done and held the movie together.Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters only settles for being an "okay" movie.
There are constant deviations from the novel, only decent scripting,
acting, visual effects, good music, and mixed acting. However, it is
not a waste, especially for fans of Percy Jackson. I enjoyed the movie,
and The Sea of Monsters is my favorite book, despite changes. Now that
many characters and plot points have been set into place after being
shattered y the first film, the makers of this film have paved a
promising path for another film that may be even better than the first
two.
