1
Awful! Worst! Not because it is pretentious and totally stupid. Because it is 150 mins of utter bore!

After reading all the negatives reviews, I still went to watch (in 3D!)
this superhero battle thinking it may not be the critics' film but at
least it would be some spectacular mess offering some guilty superhero
fun. (Short answer: No. Not fun. Not even spectacular. Just long boring
mess!)First things first! There is not much of a "battle" (physical or
psychological) b/w Batman & Superman! They just fight once, and it goes
exactly as anyone would have expected! Batman trying somethings - boom
boom - which doesn't work and then hint: Kryptonite!It's not even like cinematography or awesome background music is taking
the film forward (like say Zack Snyder's Sucker Punch) to keep you
rooted! It just keeps on going taking. Taking itself seriously. And
then keeps on going even longer!Essentially what happens is a guy does some hocus-pocus and creates a
monster and these three super-things kill it. And just so that you know
this is actually the whole movie for you. There's actually no role of
wonder-woman in this film other than that shown in the trailers.
Nothing! She shows up a few times and bam! directly at the final fight
which was quite lethargically choreographed to say the least. Batman is
loosely played by Ben Affleck wearing his famous scowl, but I wouldn't
blame him as there is actually not much for him to do. Script has
snatched away from everyone of any possibility of giving any good
performances. Lois Lane is always the damsel in distress saved by
Superman! Superman plays superman doing nothing at all. And there's
much time given to their romance which nobody cares about. And if you
have noticed even I have been writing this long about nothing but
ranting my frustration because there's, as you guessed right, nothing
concrete to criticize about in this two and a half hour long alarming
amount of pretension on the name of a battle! And at last Superman is
dead and all you are left thinking is "I don't give a f*** about it!"
