4
Vapid sequel that raises serious questions about the point of the first film

If you're a teenager looking for some adventure that isn't all "dark"
and "gritty" - the buzz words of films nowadays - then you may enjoy
this. If, however, you can't stop asking WHY? constantly, then you'll
most likely end up hating it.The Maze Runner wasn't a very good film; in fact, I only watched this
because I was in the room with somebody who wanted to see it, so I gave
it a chance just to see if an explanation for the first film came
about.The surviving teens from the Maze Runner link up with kids from other
Mazes, and the first one of them to arrive at the prison-like complex
shows Thomas, the film's hero, enough to make him question a conspiracy
against the teens... that soon leads to them making an escape.With zombie-like creatures beyond the complex, the teens go from out of
the frying pan into the fire, as they discover that they are immune to
the virus, which is why the were sent to the mazes in the first place.Okay, so if they're immune, why did one of them get infected? No,
that's not a spoiler, it's actually what we all expect to happen given
the amount of zombie films we've all seen, but if you can let that go,
you can carry on.The teens then reach a settlement and decide that they want to hook up
with the resistance, because The Hunger Games are so popular. I mean,
there may be another reason, but in an apparently hopeless world, one
would imagine that their best bet would be to seek out land to
cultivate and become the new leaders of society... after all, isn't
that what the Glade was preparing them for? No, it wasn't. In fact, the motives behind the first film are never
explained, but instead just become more and more ridiculous as the plot
plods along, cliché and cliché. Let's face it: if Wicked already has
medicine but requires the immune teenagers to obtain it, why stick them
all in Mazes around the world to watch them get killed off? If you can get past that, the end is another big cliché that absolutely
no-one will ever see coming (irony), and then Thomas stands up, gives a
speech and we can expect the decimated "resistance" to rise up against
the evil enemy who doesn't seem to use lethal force against them,
despite them using real bullets on Wicked's troops, in a third
installment.I bet you can't wait for it.
