10
Perhaps a Perfect Film

I think the wrong way to view the new film, Saving Mr. Banks, is as the
making of Disney's classic, Mary Poppins. Saving Mr. Banks is really
about storytelling as both truth and escape, as well as a film about
fathers. The film tells the true story of how Mary Poppins author, P.L. Travers,
came to Disney Studios for two weeks in 1961, as Walt Disney and his
ace crew of creatives tried to convince the ill- tempered Travers to
allow them the rights to make Mary Poppins. I think it's safe to say that we all know how the film ultimately ends,
but how we get there is such an emotional journey that it is worth
embarking upon. Emma Thompson portrays P.L. Travers with enough emotion
buried within the subtext of her words that we care about this woman
who is not all that immediately likable on the page, and in lesser
hands the role would have been just that. Meanwhile, Tom Hanks plays
the part of Walt Disney himself, with a twinkle in his eye, and yet he
also manages to bring his trademark everyman quality to old Walt
himself and make Walt not seem as if he's some myth, but rather a real
man. However, the big mistake that many seem to be making with this
film is that it's a movie about Walt Disney, and while Disney is a very
important character in the film, this is P.L. Travers' story.Through flashbacks we witness Travers' childhood in Australia and her
relationship with her alcoholic banker father, Travers Goff, who was
the inspiration for Mr. Banks in Mary Poppins, and is portrayed in this
film by Colin Farrell with a charming, yet tragic likability. We
witness how much of Travers' childhood went on to inspire Mary Poppins,
and it's through these flashbacks that Saving Mr. Banks finds its
heart. Without us seeing what P.L. Travers went through, it's hard for
us to understand why she is so against Disney transforming, what is
essentially, her own past into a film. This allows us to relate to this
hard to relate to woman, which is the brilliant stroke of director John
Lee Hancock and screenwriters Kelly Marcel and Sue Smith. As a matter
of fact, if there is one word to describe Saving Mr. Banks for me, it
is brilliant.It is rare to see a film made by a major studio with this kind of
thematic density, and that is why this is such a brilliant motion
picture. There is an honesty to the way the film deals with the idea of
fathers and that while they may not be infallible, they can still be
saved. Then there are the thematic ideas of storytelling that ring so
true to me as a storyteller myself. Whether we realize it or not, the
stories we tell are reflections of ourselves and our own lives. Walt
says it best late in the film when he points out that the true power of
imagination and story is to lend hope, and I think that is why anyone
deep down tells a story, and I think that idea sums up Disney's entire
career.There just aren't that many kind of films like Saving Mr. Banks in
these cynical days, but if you allow yourself to feel, you will be
swept away. This is a Disney movie, through and through. There are
laughs and moments of soaring emotion throughout, and I wouldn't want
anything different from a film made by Disney. Every time you hear,
"Let's Go Fly a Kite," your spirit soars and as you watch the film, the
song begins to take on a whole new meaning that makes it an even more
life affirming song than you perhaps ever thought of it as before. It's
not merely a great toe-tapper that closes a film, it's a song of hope.I just can't say enough about Saving Mr. Banks, I loved it and I think
everyone should see this film. The funny thing about all this is, is
that without the film Mary Poppins, Saving Mr. Banks would not exist,
and yet Saving Mr. Banks is a film that manages to improve upon what is
already a near perfect classic and perhaps even best it. From now on,
every single time you watch Mary Poppins, the many events and ideas of
that film will take on a whole new meaning. In fact, I can't wait till
the next time I see Mary Poppins again to see how it may affect me more
strongly on an emotional level now knowing more of the story. Saving
Mr. Banks is just a miraculous kind of movie that we need more of. It's
classic Hollywood drama, so if you want my advice, bring a hankie and
just enjoy yourself.I give Saving Mr. Banks a 10 out of 10!
