10
Really good

Great expectations before the film, definitely, and they really paid
off. Guardians of the Galaxy is one of the best Marvel films to date,
and a really good sci-fi at that too. The film is strong on so many
levels, outstanding characters, great worlds, is emotional and
humorous.Peter Quill, or Star Lord as he likes to call himself, is a
quick-witted man of Earth thrown into the far reaches of galaxy, who
has stolen an artifact that everyone seems to want. By accident he
stumbles upon four other characters, Gamora the assassin, Drax the
Destroyer, Rocket the enhanced raccoon and Groot the humanoid tree, and
the five of them form an unlikely team. The characters are really well
presented, their emotional core is strong and back stories engaging. In
short, they're interesting and easy to like. All of them have great
moments and keep us wanting for more and more. Rocket, in particular,
steals the show with his anger management problems and bright
one-liners. It was great to see a group of people each with their own
agenda come together, this dynamic worked really well. Star-Lord
carried a lot of this weight, and was very sympathetic.The film doesn't take itself very seriously, which was refreshing to
see after also great yet darker themes of Thor and Captain America 2's.
Guardians has a lot of laughs, witty dialogue, characters rub off on
each other (and the audience), writing is perfect. The film is so
entertaining, non-stop adventure but also knows when to balance with
more dramatic themes. Scenery and worlds are spectacular, visual
effects top notch. As a reader of the Guardians comics it was great to
see some smaller motifs thrown in that may not be necessarily caught by
regular viewers, but which the comic book readers will definitely be
thankful for too.All in all, Guardians of the Galaxy was an awesome watch. Amazing
characters, vivid cinematography, great dialogue, lots of humor,
soundtrack was nice, story exciting. This wonderful adventure and its
captivating characters will be in mind for a long time.
