4
Clown has a unique premise, but its execution leaves a lot to be desired.

Even if you aren't bothered by clowns, you have to admit that a killer
clown is a pretty creepy idea. I mean clowns are always around
children, they have a pale face, goofy hair and bright welcoming
colors, masking the homicidal tendencies underneath. I always thought
it would make a good movie idea, and Clown is about the closest we get
to that. It's less of a killer clown story as much as it is a
possession movie. This particular clown suit does not come off. If
someone puts it on, it fuses with their skin while the demon slowly
possesses them. The demon is a cannibal and only eats children. 5
children to be exact: one for every month of winter, or so the lore
goes. It's an interesting take on the killer clown notion and I usually
like Eli Roth so I was excited to see this movie. Unfortunately, Clown
misses the mark in almost every way.It's an Eli Roth movie so of course there's lots of blood and gore,
which is fine. Eating kids is also inherently disturbing, even though
the killing is not shown on screen you do see a lot of children's guts,
blood and body parts. The thing is, it doesn't really add anything to
the movie. That's mainly because the movie doesn't build up much
tension in the first place. It's slow to start - the dad is the one who
puts on the costume to surprise his kid at his birthday party, but he
falls asleep in it and when he wakes up, he finds that the wig infused
with his hair and the costume is indestructible. The psychological
aspect of this is interesting for a while, but it never goes the extra
mile. Everything we see here has been done to death already. Just
because the premise is cool doesn't mean cheesy dialogue and
inappropriate jump scares get a free pass. They're still annoying as
hell, and sadly they are littered throughout the entire movie.This movie has every horror cliché in the book. The jump scares in
particular really detract from the movie's atmosphere. It sets a dark
tone at the beginning, and even more so when the psychological elements
start dripping in and the dad questions his sanity as he discovers more
about the suit, but every once in a while someone will pop up behind
someone else and the music will be LOUD for a second as if it's
supposed to scare us. No, it doesn't work like that. All the good build
up in the first two acts are dampened by these cheap scares - they give
no time for tension to build before throwing another one at you, and
it's just annoying after the first couple of times. The dialogue
doesn't help either. Neither does the acting. Peter Stormare is great
as usual but he doesn't get that much screen time. It's mainly the
female lead and her reactions to her husband turning into this monster,
and let me tell you, she is a terrible actress. There are also a lot of
kids in this movie and kid actors are almost always terrible. You just
don't care about any people on screen, except for the guy being
possessed but even he is only in the first half of the movie. We're
just stuck following a bland wife and her bland kid trying to stop the
evil clown from killing other bland kids.The clown itself does not disappoint. It does look genuinely creepy,
and the costume and make-up are very well done, but sadly that doesn't
make up for a bad script and poor direction. It just has no style. It's
really by-the-numbers horror with an Eli Roth tinge. The worst part is,
it isn't even scary. If you're a fan of Eli Roth then you might get
some enjoyment from this, but if you aren't a horror fanatic then don't
bother.
