1
Reprehensible

** SPOILERS ** Woof...what a dog. This movie should exist only as a
teaching example to young screenwriters and directors on everything NOT
to do when constructing a movie.First off, why bother? This franchise was played out back in the 80s
when the infamous Cannon Group tried to make a go of milking it for
dollars. The original Texas Chainsaw Massacre is an icon in horror
cinema, and for good reason. The utter simplicity of it's story and
approach, matched with a lightning-in-a-bottle performance by a cast
that was literally being driven crazy by director Tobe Hooper in 120
degree Texas heat, pulsates with a gritty realism that is hard to
shake. The moment you slick things up and start noodling with the plot,
the whole mess is going to collapse like an over baked soufflé.The Michael Bay reboots had a certain something about them that made
them watchable--even enjoyable--but this hackneyed attempt is rotten to
the core.In the featurette, producer Carl Mazzocone confesses that his plan was
to reacquire the rights and create a 6 movie franchise like Saw. If the
trajectory of that arc starts this low, somewhere around #4 they won't
bother to make a movie, they'll just throw you down a flight of stairs
when you show up to the theater.Mazzacone is just thinking dollars, and it shows. His reverence to the
source material only goes so far as to use a ton of it in the opening
credits and give Gunnar Hansen (the original Leatherface) a cameo.The script is everything I hate about current Hollywood storytelling.
All the characters fit a type and never veer from it, never speaking or
behaving like normal people. Every action they perform is in service of
forwarding the plot. There's nothing organic or believable about a
single person in the whole film, and thus: who cares. It's all just
meat being carved up. And you can pour as much blood on it as you want,
it doesn't make me care, and it doesn't make me scared.I don't know how much to blame the director for my next gripe, because
I suspect this has more to do with some arrogant producer forcing his
creative input into the editing: for horror to work, it needs to
breathe. Horror is all about the build of tension and the release. MTV
style hyper editing will kill any and all suspense instantly. This film
is in such a hurry it never pauses to let the audience bask in
suspense. But it will hang around for 10 minutes at a stretch while it
dolls out it's convoluted plot.Yes, and lets talk about the horrible plot. When the idea of turning
Leatherface into the hero at the end and having the main girl turn out
to be his long lost cousin came up in early creative meetings, someone
with half a brain should have spoke up and nixed it then and there.
Just bad, just horribly horribly bad, and completely miscalculated.But then this is the creative crew team that thought having lead
Alexandra Daddario blatantly running around in a belly shirt the whole
movie would be sexy, not completely awkward and distracting. Or, when
Daddario gives Leatherface back his chainsaw so he can dispatch the
corrupt mayor of the town and says "Do your thing, Cuz" that the
audience would cheer in appreciation, not nearly kick in their flat
screen in frustration.To surmise: attractive actors are wasted on hack writing, decent
cinematography can't make up for a director that doesn't know how to
tell a story visually, a greedy producer dreams about franchise money
and skips the whole part about making a movie worth watching. Awful,
terrible and a total insult to the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre.
