9
The event that shaped our world...

Few directors have such a reputation that the release of their new film
is an event and Christopher Nolan is one of those and Dunkirk is
certainly an event. Based on what had the making of a military disaster
the Allies are cornered on a beach in Dunkirk with the Germans drawing
in and massive Allied casualties followed by the invasion of Britain
almost inevitable.Initially focusing on one soldier, Fionn Whitehead, who joins the
thousands of British troops trapped on the beach waiting to be
evacuated the film opens out into three distinct areas, The Mule,
essentially a pier where the massed troops wait to board naval ships
overseen by Kenneth Branagh's naval commander , The Sea, which focuses
on a small leisure boat captained by Mark Rylance and his two sons who
cross the channel in their bid to help with the evacuation and The Air
where spitfire pilot Tom Hardy and two other pilots attempt to shoot
down various German Luftwaffe planes intent on bombing the rescue ships
at sea as well as the troops on the shore line. Each story ties in with
the other and Nolan's script cleverly shows the same moment from the
three view points usually with a dilemma within each.It's a credit to the cast that despite the paucity of dialogue all are
uniformly good. Fionn Whitehead is a unifying thread throughout the
film as he lurches from one life threatening crisis to the next.
Rylance & Brannagh are stoic & brave each aware of the desperate
situation they are in and poor old Tom Hardy, much like Bane in 'The
Dark Knight Returns', spends the film with his face covered by a pilots
mask with only his eyes to convey the ever worsening situation he's
facing. Even little pop moppet Harry Styles acquits himself well.Nolan handles all this brilliantly but what really takes this into
another league is Hans Zimmer's music. Relentless, it compliments the
action ratcheting up the tension to a nerve shredding crescendo. This
is so brilliantly done that certainly the film feels like one long
frighteningly real action scene albeit a true one. Nolan, together with
Zimmer and his Editor Lee Smith, have put together one of the best
Summer blockbusters this year made all the more extraordinary by having
almost no dialogue but letting the pictures paint the scene. Shot in
Imax 70mm its certainly worth seeing it this way as its immersive
nature takes you headlong into the action which will have your heart
beating as loud as anything in the film with its all too real
explosions and its terrifying fighter plane engines screaming as they
hone in on the exposed troops. If there's any justice at next years
Oscars then Nolan, Zimmer and Lee should, at the very least, be
nominated.This is an extraordinary film of a moment that was far from the
military's finest hour and though the soldiers are the first to admit
that, 'All we did was survive', it's a tremendously patriotic film
about the courage, not just of the soldiers, but of the civilians who
selflessly took their own boats across the channel to rescue thousands
and thousands of troops. This is a testament to the courage of the few
for the many and is sure to feature in many top ten end of year lists
and rightly so.
