5
Disappointed

I was curious as to how this movie would play out. I enjoyed the film,
but I was disappointed with the ending. With a different ending, I
could have overlooked a lot of the other flaws. (Obviously this will
include spoilers).The story is somewhat basic--two operatives on a mission fall in love
and get married. Then, one of them is revealed to be a spy for the
Germans, though a reluctant one at that. Half of the film is devoted to
developing Pitt and Cotillard's relationship. It starts with a
thrilling mission in Casablanca and ends with their eventual marriage,
birth of their daughter, and Pitt's humdrum life as a desk officer in
British intelligence. The second half of the movie revolves around Pitt
being briefed that his wife is a German spy and that he must cooperate
in a "blue dye" operation to know for sure. Over the course of three
days, he must act normal and go along with the operation. Pitt is told
that if she is found to be a spy, he must execute her immediately, or
they will both be executed. But he loves his wife and he wants to prove
her innocent, so he goes to great lengths to get information ... only
to find out that she is indeed not the person she claimed she was. But
she loves him and she was only cooperating with the Germans out of
coercion. Pitt decides to spirit his family out of the country (in a
single engine plane that couldn't have taken them anywhere useful,
except maybe Ireland) but they are stopped and Cotillard, knowing her
husband won't pull the trigger, shoots herself after confessing her
love and telling Pitt that he must take care of their daughter. The end
of the film is the verbal reading of a letter Cotillard wrote on her
last day with her family (she knew she'd be caught). This ending really left a hollow feeling in me. It would have been
better if Cotillard had somehow been saved. Indeed, there is historical
precedent that the movie ignored.The whole "you must execute her on the spot!" thing was contrived. The
British routinely turned German agents into double agents. Only the
most hardened of spies who refused to turn would have been executed,
and even then, most were imprisoned. Cotillard would have eagerly
agreed to work as a double. It would have been a nice ending if she
passed fraudulent reports to the Germans in the lead-up to D- Day, thus
"saving the day."In reality, by the time D-Day kicked off, all of Germany's spies in the
UK had been rolled up (either executed, imprisoned, or turned), so the
whole notion that Cotillard's character would have been working for a
German network is pure fiction.It's also fiction that Pitt (who is in his 50s) would be a "field man."
At his age and with his rank, he would have been a senior officer
working out of England, not parachuting into Morocco. And if Cotillard was suspected as a spy, Pitt would have also been
investigated. He would not have been told to go along with this scheme.
Why? Because of what we saw in the film. He would have been emotionally
compromised. Therefore, the first Pitt would have heard of this would
have been when she was arrested and he along with her. They would have
interrogated him and ensured that he wasn't a witting accomplice.It was later stated in the film that the ambassador they assassinated
in the beginning of a film was actually a dissident whom Hitler wanted
killed. If so, Hitler would have just recalled the man and executed him
in Berlin. He would not have allowed some long-odds intelligence
operation to go forth in which he'd lose a number of SS and Abwehr
officers. In short, there would be easier ways to get an agent into the
British network.Anyway, I wanted to like this film better. If they had given it a
happier ending, I would have. I thought the whole "Allied" title might
be a nod towards how a husband and wife are allied together.
