8
An old fashioned good quality movie

When a movie still haunts me, days after watching it, I know it must
have been bloody good and this was the case with The Meyerowitz
stories. Dustin Hofman is one of my all time favorite actors but I
wasn't prepared for him to play such an obnoxious, selfish character.
For a great part of the movie, he is lying in a hospital bed having
some life threatening condition. He comes out of it and STILL is the
same obnoxious selfish man he was before...LOL. Although he doesn't
change, his children do.The story is told through these children, all grown up and with their
own emotional baggage. The Adam Sandler part is touching, albeit a bit
long in comparison to the other. In fact, the part that's about the
sister is just a disgrace and doesn't learn us anything about her -
it's merely a reason for the brothers to bond.Now Ben Stiller is really good in this film, he plays the successful
brother. The patience he has for his father is amazing and their lunch
date is just so relatable and bittersweet. It made my toes crawl
because I could just feel his inner struggle between staying polite and
patient and just losing it completely. His character changes the most
in this film and I really liked how constrained and calm he acted. It
seemed he, as the youngest, becomes actually the leader of the
siblings, the one they look up to. And no longer because he's obviously
their father's favorite, but because during this ordeal he really
proves himself as the smarter, more responsible one. Like fi. when he
learns his brother and sister to take notes by the hospital bed.I liked the relation between Adam Sandler and his on-screen daughter at
first. But when she's off to college, she turns from this down-to-earth
girl into a exhibitionist movie maker, making egocentrically porn and
selling it as art. Maybe she really WAS the one and only true successor
of her grandfather, and she may just turn unto the same unlikeable
person he is. Just thinking about that as I write, I might have missed
that point when I watched the film...Greatest disappointment was the role of Emma Thompson as Meyerowitz's
4th (?) wife. Her character was also very unlikeable - even in the
scenes with 'son' Ben Stiller. I couldn't imagine her being a wife or a
mother. She was just wacky and weird and her body language reminded me
a lot of the character she played in the Harry Potter movies.In all, the female roles are just bad and not as nearly as important as
the male roles, but I guess this is due to the fact that Harold
Meyerowitz's character is so dominant, all females are automatically
put in the background. The sons are divorced or in the middle of it,
and their ex-wives are only mentioned briefly and surely never seen.Nevertheless, I couldn't stop watching. The dialogues are so important
in this film, they are quick and witty (like the old movies with Cary
Grant). Scenes are long and filmed from the same camera point, so this
is very different from other movies where everything must go fast and
flashy. For some this might be boring, but I liked the slow speed and
the time that is spent on the scenes.Highly recommended.
