1
Are you kidding me?

Absolutely abysmal. Virtually nothing made sense. The characters had no
original distinctions. I agree with most here that the acting was top-
notch but for what? Crazy Heart was pretty solid, if a bit overrated. I
always thought it was a tad..off though and I couldn't put my finger on
just why. I get it now. While it had some terrific scenes and Jeff
Bridges turned in another powerful performance, it just didn't seem to
jive with the salt-of-the-Earth country genre folks depicted. Like, the
young woman's obsession with an elderly singer, despite his prior fame.
And now, after watching OOTF (quite an appropriate acronym for this
piece of crap), it all makes sense. Scott Cooper has no business
telling stories about this particular group of Americans. He may have
been born in Virginia but so little resembles reality, in my opinion.
Forrest Whittaker's character is just weird, with an unsettling voice
and cadence. Casey Affleck made decisions that made no sense. After
begging low grade fight organizer John Petty for a chance to scrap with
his New Jersey connections he goes up there and immediately acts like a
complete, rude a-hole. For no reason. But perhaps the stupidest scene
is the meth buy. Somebody on these boards already described why it was
so bad but no drug transaction in the history of the controlled
substance has ever gone down that way. "yes, Mr. Complete Stranger,
I'll sell you a fairly good amount of this very illegal and federally
targeted drug and when you are a jerk to me I won't mind and when you
refuse, twice, to even sample the product so I can be sure you're
legit, I don't mind. Then, when you forget the baggie I'll run it
outside to you." So &%$* stupid it still upsets me as I think about it.
There was no mystery, the tension died as soon as Affleck's corpse was
found. For some reason the police decided not to pursue a capitol crime
they had audio taped evidence of. This is the biggest waste of talent
and anger-inducing film I've seen since Prometheus. Who read this
script and thought "hey, good flick!"? It truly had to be a literal
moron.
