10
They are the Turtles - what more needs to be said

Heroes in a half shell....(wait for it) TURTLE POWER! TMNT: Out of the
Shadows is awesome, just plain awesome! Okay, I am slightly biased. I
have been a fan of the four, shell laden mutants since I was 4. However, the first movie disappointed me. It lacked that little
something, flavour possibly? Earthly comedic value? I don't know, but I
didn't come away from the showing feeling like I had seen something
that was justifiable to the franchise. This movie was different! It is childish with an adult feel. The script
is well prepared and executed. Cinematography and special effects are
on a par with brilliance. What makes this movie great is the paid homage to old characters that
we have come to know and love. Bebop, Rocksteady, Baxter Stockman and
Krang - are all introduced in this sequel. The writers have really
thrown their eggs into one basket and it worked. So very often, screen
time and plot can suffer because of character introduction and the
subsequent make up of their involvement within the walls of the story.
However, this did not hinder the movie one bit. The characters were
introduced and spaced well. Dialogue was fluid and the script flowed
well enough to keep my attention. Fox was her ever sexy, sleuthy self as April and the Turtles were, well
Green and Mean. (Michaelangelo is still the steal of the performances).
The story is thick with old and new method, it is great for the older
fan of the franchise and superb for the new fan. The action is mixed well with underlying emotional out play. The one
liners are directed well and the overlay of tense if predictable
moments are enough to make you want TMNT OFTS play on. If there was a "bad" egg in the movie, it is Stephen Amell who plays
Casey Jones. It is not that I think he is a bad actor, but he isn't
Casey Jones. He seems stiff and unresponsive to the rest of the cast, I
wasn't feeling that old Casey Jones appeal with his portrayal. Elias
Koteas encapsulated the essence of Casey in the very first live action
picking way back in the early 90's. It was his feverish, awkward charm
and humour that worked well with the lovable vigilante. Amell just
didn't portray that. He wasn't endearing enough - hopefully this may
change if they do number 3. Overall though, the movie is well worth a scope. Yes, it is ridiculous.
Yes, it cannot be taken seriously. Yes, it is about 4 mutant turtles
saving the world from a giant pink piece of hubba bubba. But it is the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. The movie itself does not
take its own self seriously. It is alive with humour, fast action,
gizmos and gadgets, sci-fi aliens and ships, April O' Neill, one liners
and all the turtling you can handle. It is a must see. I dare you not to enjoy it! A rare movie that fits
into the category of Sequel being better than Original. This should
have been the first movie in the rebooted franchise.
