5
Begins well, but like its protagonist it soon falls apart

Davis Mitchell (Jake Gyllenhaal) is a successful investment banker
working for his father-in-law's firm. Tragedy strikes for Davis when
his wife Julia (Heather Lind) is killed in a car accident. Shortly
after his wife is pronounced dead, Davis has a problem with a vending
machine and writes several letters of complaint to the vending machine
company, which leads to Davis striking up a friendship with Karen
(Naomi Watts) a customer service representative at the vending machine
company who is touched by the content of his letters. Davis, with the
help of Karen, goes on a voyage of self-discovery after the death of
his wife, but the unconventional methods he employs to deal with his
wife's death don't meet with approval for those closest to him.Presumably, Demolition is intended as a character study and I can see
that an interesting film could have been made out of the character of
Davis - he's seemingly an emotionally-retarded man incapable of showing
emotion or grief in the conventional sense of the word. In the opening
segments of the film, his wife criticises him for not really paying
attention, but later in the film we can see that he is actually
observant and fairly regimental when going about his daily routine. To
me though, it seemed that he only focuses his attention on what is
important to him and isn't really interested in what is important to
anyone else. The film suggests (as far as I could gather) that there
may have been psychological issues with Davis - him being unable to
emote or show concern over his wife's death and I really wish that
these psychological issues would have had more bearing on the story.Davis' unconventional method of dealing with his wife's death is
interesting in its early stages; his desire to open everything up and
see how it works may have been a metaphor about his own existence -
essentially stripping everything away about himself and rebuilding
himself possibly as a better person. As things progress, Davis gets
worse and worse and the moment he pays a group of builders to help them
knock a house down is the point where we start to learn that Davis is
deeply troubled. This aspect of the story is quite interesting and fun
to watch (for a while), but once we get to this point there isn't
really any further development of Gyllenhaal's character and at this
point in the film it goes from being fun and interesting to being
tiresome and repetitive.As well as Davis' own life struggle the film has other threads such as
Karen's marital problems and her son Chris and his struggle with his
sexuality. These themes are littered throughout the film and are
covered in dribs and drabs, but never really to an extent that you're
able to become emotionally invested in these themes or in the
characters. Admittedly, the former thread isn't that interesting, but
the latter theme is and perhaps could have been expanded further. I
think this is part of the problem with this film in that it has lots of
ideas and themes, but at 98 minutes long it perhaps doesn't have the
running time to develop all of its ideas and as a result it comes
across as being a bit muddled and cluttered at times.Still the acting is pretty good and it is interesting in its early
stages and despite some of its problems it never falls into the realms
of being unwatchable, but at the same time it's never as interesting as
it could have been and when the film ended I felt as though I knew as
much about Davis at the end as I did at the start. In my book,
Demolition is something of a failure, but it is, at least at times, a
moderately interesting failure.
