1
Horrible Movie

This movie had a 5 million dollar budget, and I feel like 1 million was
spent on the movie and the other 4 spent on fake reviews on sites like
IMDb. This movie was one of the largest pieces of garbage I have ever
seen.*Spoiler*Nothing comes at night. If you read the positive reviews for this movie
they like to pretend you should imagine what would come at night. I did
not pay $13 a ticket to imagine anything. On top of that, one of the
main characters is left tied to a tree through a night or 2 and guess
what... Nothing comes to eat him, make him sick, or even tickle his
toes. We saw this movie at the Alamo Draft House and I was very
confused when they started handing out checks as that usually happens
after the climax of a movie, and this movie never had that. To sum the
movie up, his grandpa is put down like a sick animal at the start of
the movie then nothing happens for about 20 minutes. Some guy shows up
at his house by breaking in, they go to pick up this guys family and
some goats. While on the road, they run in to a couple of guys who they
beat up and kill. At this point, they lead you to believe the guy who
wandered up to his house knew the people in the forest, but they just
ignore that and bring the guys family and goats home. Then you spend
another 20 minutes with nothing happening and then the dog runs away.
What did the dog run away to chase? You never find out. The dog shows
up sick a few nights later and some how this "door that only the dad
has a key to gets unlocked". How did that happen and why did everybody
blame the kid when the dad has the only key? Well, if you asked that,
you will never find out because they just go "Oh well, lets all go to
our separate rooms". While in their rooms the mom hugs and kisses her
kid, the kid who touched the other little kid. Why did the kid die at
the end from the disease and the mom not die? How is the disease
spread? Nobody took proper precautions to prevent the spread of a
disease. Putting a mask on for a few minutes doesn't protect you if
it's airborne as you are all still hanging out together. Hugging and
kissing your kid who may be infected is also an easy way to get the
virus, disease, whatever it was. Save your money, this movie is full of
plot holes, almost no story and just plain sucked. I am disappointing I
didn't go see the house instead. That one got bad reviews, but at least
I would have known that going in to it and wouldn't have been lead to
believe this movie was going to be good by a bunch of lying hipsters.
Seriously, read their reviews, this movie is not "profound" or even a
movie you need to "think" to understand. It's a piece of garbage, low
budget movie that was passed off as a blockbuster with a bunch of fake
reviews.
