6
Loud, dumb but executed with enough flair and momentum not to bore, this 'Hitman' reboot is a passable diversion

Anyone who's ever harboured the dream of seeing Singapore feature
prominently in a Hollywood movie will certainly be pleased with
'Hitman: Agent 47", which features iconic landmarks such as Gardens by
the Bay and Marina South in their full glory. A pivotal supporting
character is seen admiring the orchids in the Gardens' Cloud Forest
dome, before taking a stroll along the OCBC Skyway. The headquarters of
a sinister group known as the Syndicate Organisation is situated right
in the heart of Marina South, against the backdrop of the Marina Bay
Financial Centre and Asia Square towers. And last but not least, there
is even a full-scale shootout in broad daylight along downtown Robinson
Road, which probably has never seen and will never see as many Comfort
taxis at the same time.We're not sure what it took to convince the producers and filmmakers of
this video game adaptation to bring part of the production here, but
hey it is one of the few thrills in an otherwise loud and dumb action
thriller. To be frank, we weren't expecting much from this reboot of
the earlier EuropaCorp film starring Timothy Olyphant in the titular
role of a chrome-domed, genetically engineered, emotionless contract
killer from not so far back in 2007; after all, if there is one
demographic that it would try to please, it is the video-gamers who
adore stepping into the shoes of the cold-blooded assassin to kill off
his enemies while wrecking maximum carnage in the process, which was
probably in the one-line brief that Fox gave to veteran commercials
director Aleksander Bach here.Hamstrung by a muddled script by Skip Woods (who also wrote the earlier
'Hitman' movie) and Michael Finch, Bach falls back on a breakneck
pacing and flashy visuals to gloss over the film's obvious storytelling
flaws. Yes, despite an intriguing first half-hour that teases the
characters' motivations, the rest of the film is unfortunately as
straight-forward as it gets in plotting the cat- and-mouse game between
Katia (Hannah Ware) and a certain John Smith (Zachary Quinto)
dispatched by Syndicate HQ. Katia is the crucial link to the Agent
programme's lead scientist Dr. Litvenko (Ciaran Hinds), whom the
Syndicate's head honcho Le Clerq (Thomas Kretschmann) needs to restart
the programme. Another organisation however has sent Rupert Friend's
Agent 47 to prevent Katia from falling into the hands of the Syndicate,
though it isn't quite clear what they want from her.The less you think about the plot, the more you are likely to enjoy the
visceral pleasures that the film offers. True to the spirit of its
source material, the action here is brutal and pulsating, with heads
blown off, bodies sucked into giant jet engines, limbs slashed and
blood basically splattering everywhere (and for those who are
wondering, much of the bloodletting takes place in interiors rather
than exteriors, so don't get your hopes up about seeing all that
happening along our streets). Bach choreographs and executes the action
with gory flair, and fans of the IO Interactive game will be glad to
know that he makes the effort to retain its aesthetics. Yet no matter how diverting the shootouts or fisticuffs may be, there
is no hiding the fact that the characters are under-written. Though
Friend makes for a surprisingly good Agent 47 – and we are not just
talking about his looks – the actor best known for his supporting part
in 'Homeland' is shortchanged by the script's reluctance to develop
fully the theme of choice versus blind obedience. Ware makes a
sufficiently harried female protagonist, but Quinto is utterly wasted
in a role that doesn't quite know what to do with him after it is
revealed that he is actually working for the Syndicate. Veterans Hinds
and Kretschmann have even more limited roles, but their natural
gravitas elevates their presence just ever so slightly.Of course, you'll probably should not expect a film like 'Hitman: Agent
47' to be moulded on an intricate plot or deep characters, and true
enough, it isn't. Rather, it takes its action seriously, which is what
its target demographic is likely to assess it on anyways – and in that
regard, it succeeds as a fast-paced thrill ride all right, even though
it is equally mind-numbing. That said, there is greater relish watching
some of the action unfold in our very own backyard, no matter that the
reasoning for re-locating the action from Berlin to Singapore midway
through the film is tenuous at best, and the novelty in watching the
sights we are familiar with within a big-budget Hollywood action
thriller makes it slightly more enjoyable.
