4
I really wanted to like it, but....

I really wanted to like "into darkness". I'm not a die-hard trekkie,
but I like original series/movies well enough, and I really enjoyed the
entire original Khan storyline. As soon as I heard the Khan rumors, I
was both excited and anxious. Unfortunately, I think the anxious side
won out.Don't get me wrong. It's a solid action flick, and the acting by pretty
much everyone is fine, and Cumberbatch is amazing. But it's not star
trek, and it especially is not wrath of khan, no matter how much it
wants to be. Other reviews have focused on the good, so I'm going to
focus on the bad (as I see it).First, in the originals, Khan is from central Asia and was played by a
Mexican. In this movie, Khan is as English as the queen herself.
Cumberbatch's excellent performance notwithstanding, why is he called
"Khan Noonien Singh" if he's Engilish? The time travel event in the
first movie would not have caused a fundamental change in Khan's race,
accent, etc. It's a minor point, I know, but it really dragged me out
of the movie.Second, key parts of the plot are uncomfortably repetitive of the
original, with special effects added for the sake of hyperbole and all
of the thoughtfulness of the original removed for simplicity. Though
Kirk's journey into maturity is obviously meant to be introspective, it
couldn't have been less subtle with a sledgehammer, particularly at
certain key points in the plot. Parts of London and San Francisco are
destroyed just to make the effects and reinforce what a bad guy Khan
is, but the consequences of the horror go unrealized. Khan himself is
the mechanism of a really cheesy reincarnation that follows a really
cheesy exploitation of the original film.Third, although the acting by the crew is fine, the dialogue is
sophomoric and obvious. McCoy is meant to be the conscience of the
crew, the thoughtful one holding everyone back from rash decisions.
Here, Karl Urban is given nothing but shoddy one-liners. Simon Pegg and
Anton Yelchin are similarly disused.Abrams thankfully doesn't use as much camera shake as last time, but
there are still plenty of lens flares, fast zooms, and weird angles, as
well as nods to star wars. They're cheap, hack, and do nothing to
advance the story. As a fan of both franchises, I hate that they will
all soon suffer from these faults. Cut the redundancy and hack
cinematography and try to come up with some creative original plots,
JJ!
