1
Another title that makes you sad to review

Alright, so there goes another pile of SFX done by people who do not
know ANYTHING. Yeah, you get to see outposts/giant ships in the sky.
You get to see flying things. You get to deal with another
relationships drama. Yeah, you get to see another non-Russian looking
actress who pretends to be a Russian. But this is where the good things
end. Hollywood! STOP RECYCLING THE SAME IDIOTIC GARBAGE! MOST OF THE
MOVIE VIEWERS ARE NOT AS STUPID AS YOU ARE! Do not get confused by all
those 10-star reviews. Most of them are done by paid "reviewers". This
movie is wrong tactically. Every tactical aspect is wrong and stupid.
STUPID. Should I even attempt to mention the tactical flaws? a) No
camouflage is used by the main character. He can be seen from miles
away. b) Why the concept of helmets is lost so completely? The main
character does not wear a helmet even when he rides a dirt bike (a
white dirt bike). c) A huge, long WHITE-colored rifle will get in one's
way most of the time. Did anyone notice any spare mags? d) What is the
story with the rifle-mounted flash light? Don't they have any NVGs or
light-amplifying sights? No camouflage + bright flashlights? Do they
want to be detected by anyone from miles away? e) The main character is
constantly exposed, because he ridiculously works alone. There is no
one to spot for the guy who does repairs and therefore cannot watch his
6 o'clock. He acts as though he is alone on the entire planet, although
he is so obviously not alone. f) No body armor?! Why? The main
character is evidently challenged by various opposing forces, but he
has no ballistic protection (see the part b about the absence of
helmets). g) If, or rather, when that flimsy flying machine brakes, the
main character will be stuck in the middle of radioactive no where. I
would not take this job. e) Since the flying machine is not a
helicopter, then why does it have a large tail with a fan? A tail rotor
is only used on single-rotor helicopters. The flyer in the movie is a
heavily thrust-vectoring machine with two engines. So, the tail with a
fan becomes utterly useless, obviously. Also, whatever kind of concepts
they employ are WAY OVERUSED! Crushed Moon, crumbling Earth, robots
getting out of control, clones, Earth invasion, ruined Manhattan, etc.
Whiskey, Tango, Fox is wrong with you, Hollywood? You people keep
releasing piles of the same nonsense again and again and again! Also,
all this sentimental BS is tiring. Just to make the movie appeal to
love-starved house-wives, the producers had to add tons of boring
"feely" sentimentality and unappealing "romance". I do not even feel
like reviewing such pile of garbage. No, I did not finish watching this
movie. I got sick of all the silly nonsense. Thank you, Hollywood.
Please, keep making the 100% recycled post-consumer sort of movies, so
that more people can learn to appreciate and to watch the old classics
more often! At least I know for sure that the old "dream factory" is
totally ruined now.
