8
Nuns and priest discover secular love

Why film a ribald Boccaccio romp now? There's absolutely nothing at all
even remotely like it in the multiplexes now. Everything today is
Current or Special-Effect Future. So why not a little dabble in the
historic. For a change. That's reason one, and a hint at writer-director Jeff Baena's
willingness to take a risk. In the film biz, remember, sequels and
rehashes are the sincerest form of flattery — not to mention the safest
investment. This film, though, is a unique riff on the medieval not a
rip-off.It's also an interesting experiment. Can you set a story in medieval
Italy but keep the dialogue contemporary colloquial (e.g., one nun's
"Shut the f— up!"). Spoiler alert: yes, you can and it works with
refreshing brio. After all, Boccaccio didn't write in any archaic lingo but in his
period's colloquialism. That's what Baena does here. The apparent
anachronism is true to the original's currency. Its the quote may
suggest, it's also great fun.Which is another reason to revive Boccaccio today : to spring
delightfulness upon the dour. In one plot line a handsome young servant escapes a sadistic lord's
revenge for sleeping with the lady of the house. In the other he
pretends to be a deaf mute so he can secure work in a convent, where
the ladies have vented their frustration by tormenting the male
gardener. At the end three nuns rescue their man from the lord's
dungeon and return him to his manifold functions at the convent. The fired priest and the mother superior resume their enriched love as
well. Amor vincit omnia. Love (secular, that is, really) conquers all.
Especially the cold-hearted prigs. That bawdy folk-tale works as a corrective to the stolid religiosity of
the Dark Ages. One fruit of the Renaissance was to recover humanity and
the values of earthly existence, responsibility and pleasure from the
repressive throttle of the medieval church. The archbishop here represents the period's religious orthodoxy. So in
his own service does the presiding priest. But the latter is
distinguished by his humanity, his instinct to forgive, and his
capacity to love more fully than in the ethereal abstract. And that is what makes this medieval joke so bitingly current. Reviving
a Renaissance ribaldry suggests we have yet again the need to fight off
the Dark Ages. The monster is back so we need to revive its opponent.
This hearty embrace of love and individual liberty implies today's need
to deflate an unsympathetic, repressive, non-compassionate religiosity.
Of the latter, examples in the Trump presidency abound. This film
summons Renaissance humanism to fight that monster again.
