10
Me and Earl and the Dying Girl: Proof That Laughter Can Help Ease the Pain of Dying

Me and Earl and the Dying Girl offers a very accessible, honest, and
humorous look at not only how someone deals with being diagnosed with
cancer, but it also turns the clichés of the coming-of-age story on its
nose, and the people behind this film are able to do that by finding
the perfect balance between drama and comedy within this unfortunate
tragedy. Me and Earl and the Dying Girl centers around Greg (Thomas Mann), a
very sarcastic and self-loathing high school student going into his
senior year. Greg believes that if he shuts everyone out of his life so
that he won't have to deal with anything, then things will be okay, and
this gives him a sort of self-gratification. So to uphold his
philosophy, he doesn't try to be friends with anyone, but makes sure
he's on low-key, good terms with everyone in his school. However, he
does spend his time with his co-worker/"friend" Earl (RJ Cyler) making
parodies of classic foreign cinema together. However, when Greg learns
from his mother that a childhood friend of his, Rachel (Olivia Cooke)
is diagnosed with Leukemia, Greg begins a blossoming friendship with
Rachel; a friendship that would take him through the best of times, the
worst of times, and eventually shape him into the person that he will
become. While this film definitely shares characteristics with 2014's The Fault
in Our Stars (which is a pretty good movie in my opinion), this film to
me is more heartfelt and inventive than TFiOS ever was. And most of
this has to do with the brilliant screenplay written by Jesse Andrews,
who happened to write the book that his film is adapted from. The way
that Andrews addresses how to deal with this sickness is wonderfully
human and clumsy; whether through comedy, wit, or drama, Andrews finds
a way to make the whole scenario relate in some way, shape, or form to
anyone and everyone.The direction and cinematography are absolutely incredible. Alfonso
Gomez-Rejon, who is known for his work on American Horror Story, and
was a personal assistant to Martin Scorsese, shows not only his
inventiveness, but his quirkiness as a director on this film.
Gomez-Rejon shows his talent with stop motion animation, long panning
shots, flashback sequences, and some very long takes that really allow
the actors to give the best performances possible. There are even times
when this feels like a Wes Anderson film, and this can also be
contributed to the gorgeous cinematography. Chung-hoon Chung oozes with
style behind the camera, and ultimately the film has a very vibrant
look that gave the story being told so much life. These people tell
this story with so much care and thought, it's evident that the
filmmakers truly respected Andrews' work on the screenplay and wanted
to do it the justice it deserves. And thankfully, we got it here.The performances in this film are all magnetic. Every single one of
these actors were able to hold their own on screen. The parents in the
film, played by Molly Shannon, Connie Britton, and the always
delightful Nick Offerman, all do fantastic work. Their relationships
with their children are all very grounded in reality and realistically
portrayed. Jon Bernthal is incredibly funny as Greg's history teacher,
and is able to depict the "generic cool teacher who understands the
main protagonist" in a different, refreshing light. However, the three
leads all steal the show. RJ Cyler serves as a foil to Greg's
character. Instead of BS-ing people in order to avoid any direct
confrontation, Cyler's Earl is very frank with his language and
emotions, and gets right to the core of the problem with Rachel. Olivia
Cooke gives a very heartfelt and understated performance in this film,
and watching her suffering through this sickness that's eating her up
is truly heartbreaking to watch. However, the whole film rides on
Thomas Mann's shoulders. His detached performance, and the way he
handles Rachel's sickness is so realistically somber. His character
actually reminds quite a bit of the characters Anthony Michael Hall
played in older John Hughes films. He does a fantastic job with the
darker comic moments in the film, and the way his character develops
throughout the film is nothing short of stellar. This film won both the Grand Jury Prize and the Audience Award at the
Sundance Film Festival this past January, and it's not hard to see why.
Me and Earl and the Dying Girl is a film filled with heartbreakingly
realistic performances, quirky direction, gorgeous cinematography, and
spectacular writing. Whether your an art-house fan, a fan of cinema in
general, or just the casual moviegoer, there's something in this film
that everyone can relate to. It's in wide release right now, so do
yourself a favor and go see it, because it's one of the best films of
the year.
