8
We Work in the Dark to Serve the Light

Besides a few yearly sports titles, I don't find myself enamored with
any single video game series. That is, besides the Assassin's Creed
games. The film definitely captured the game's tone, even if it
sometimes makes frustrating plot choices.I'm not willing to say Assassin's Creed breaks the video game-movie
"curse" if you will, but it may be the best adaptation in years. Of
course, that's not saying a whole lot, and there's still so much room
for improvement. Where many films these days have way too many
exposition-heavy scenes, Assassin's Creed needed a few more. If you
haven't played any of the games or are not familiar with the lore,
there will be more than one time you'll be saying (in the words of
Callum Lynch) "what the f*ck is going on."And frustrating or not, this story isn't necessarily structured like
the games. The games are roughly 75% past and 25% present day balanced.
But the film flips that into 60% present and 40% past. I'm not sure if
it was budgetary reasons or the filmmakers just didn't think 15th
Century Spain would be interesting to viewers, but this isn't a film
about that particular time-frame. For better or worse, this is Callum
Lynch's story. If that's the reason you'll dislike the movie than
that's fine, but I'm not sure what the film chose not to set focus on
would be the reason I would tear it apart for. Instead, the film is at
its weakest when the present-day plot takes itself too seriously or you
just don't fully understand certain character's motivations (i.e.
Marion Cotillard).To me, however, because of how much this film encapsulated the feeling
of the video game, I thoroughly enjoyed my time at the movies. Although
used sparingly, Aguilar (Lynch's ancestor in 15th Century Spain), is
awesome. I would have liked some more development between him and
Maria, a fellow assassin, but the action they took part in is some of
the most thrilling this year. If this film makes money, I sure hope the
filmmakers decide to cut down on the shadowy and smoke filled action,
because when you can see fighting clearly, is when the film succeeds
the most.I can't deny that this film can be pretty confusing, especially to a
casual film-goer, but if you're a fan of the game I can't see you
walking away disappointed overall. There are certainly some things that
need fixing, but if Fox takes a leap of faith (ha, see what I did
there), this could be quite the franchise.+When the film focuses on the past+Fassbender+Action replicates the game's aesthetic-Needed some more exposition-Some characters are underwritten8.0/10
