2
Good Concept ... But Fluffy Execution and Bad Hollywood Ending

This would have been an interesting 30 minute Twilight Zone episode
(Writer creates character that comes alive. Are they real?) ... but the
way they stretched this into a full length movie, is like turning a
good burger into dinner for four (all the 'answers', were like
Hamburger Helper).Stop reading if you do not want a Spoiler ... since the flaws of this
movie destroy it.Writers create characters everyday, but those characters are frozen in
time. They never age. They never change. Next time you pick up the
book, they are the same. For some reason, Ruby wants, and this movie
allows her, to change herself?His relationship with Ruby was 'perfect', until he stopped expressing
his devotion to her via writing. When he tried to script her via human
interaction, they failed as a couple. Good Writers, do not always make
good Directors ... but once he realizes this, the writing 'genius'
tries to fix her, by writing short sentences. A writer creates a
character with pages, and chapters. This renowned Writer tries to fix
their problems with Tweets?The biggest problem ... the Hollywood ending. It destroyed the entire
concept. She should have disappeared, when he closed the book (set her
free). Them meeting a year later, and her memory of him being erased,
made no sense. She is reading the story of herself, but does not
recognize the story, because he changed the characters name and her
description? How screwed up is their relationship going to be, based on
the lie (again) of him creating her. How do you explain her to your
family? 'Here is Ruby. She does not remember me, and she is the girl I
created in my second book ... but don't tell her?', and if they are
able to carry that deception off ... How screwed up will she be, when
she realizes all her memories are fake? Can you see her at her High
School reunion? What do you do, tell her everyone has amnesia of her?
LMFAO!Maybe it is a generational thing, and relationships are now expected to
be fixed with Tweets ... but that lowered this from an 8 to a 6. The
'romantic' ending, that would be a disaster it reality, and made no
sense ... lowered a 6 to a 2.
