6
The name is JOBS  steve jobs

It is somewhat ironical that the man who always signed his name in the
lower case 'steven p. jobs' has the movie in his name titled in capital
JOBS. For me this was the most awaited movie of the year, more so
because of having read the biography a couple of times. The ironies
however does not end with the case of the font but the perfectionist he
was, I am sure if among us today he would have wanted some (major)
iterations in the movie before his actual story came out to the public.
A movie reaches out to a much wider audience exponentially than a book
and those of you who have read the book should agree with me that movie
did not do complete justice to Jobs biopic.Joshua Michael Stern who is known for directing dramas, has
concentrated more on the dramatic side of Jobs rather than the genius
his was. He has failed to explain the reason behind his outbursts, his
mad passion for perfection, and the primary reason for the personality
that was the Steve Jobs. I would not dwell into the particular events
but Stern could have shown the cause and consequence for the milestones
he achieved. Whether it was shortage of time or bad script writing the
movie would fail to connect with audience who do not much about Jobs.
Moreover, important events which made Jobs what he is like the creation
of NeXT, the buying of Pixar and his fight with cancer are completely
missing.Ashton Kutcher has come a long way from portraying the stupid kid in
That 70's show to portraying one of the geniuses of our generation. He
is eerily similar to the original Steve Jobs and full marks to him for
taking on the nuances, the body language and the talking style of the
Apple founder. The jaw line was perfect and as a young Jobs he was
flawless. The script could have given him more to showcase his acting
prowess but sadly the whole movie cracked around there. I am sure Jobs
family would also share the view of Kutcher doing a brilliant "JOB".The only other character worth mentioning is that of Mike Marrkula
played by Dermot Mulroney a brilliant actor with an equally brilliant
performance. Matthew Modine, James Woods, John Getz and others are just
supporting the main man as the in his real life it was all about
himself. The music is good and you get to hear some famous Bob Dylan
songs in the movie, as Steve was a big Dylan fan all this life.Even though for me Steve Jobs life has been a 5/5, I had expected a
much better product from the production and so would have Jobs. A 3/5
from me sadly for the movie and for all the Jobs and Apple fans this is
a must watch. However I would suggest you read the book before going to
the movie. Alternatively, if you have seen the movie and not the read
the book, now is the time to pick it up and do it.
