8
Packed with wit, imagination and thoughtfulness, this lovingly rendered stop-motion animation is one of the best of the year

A word of caution for parents with younger tots – 'Paranorman' might 

not go down too well for the faint of heart. But its deliberately 

mature- skewing approach is also the reason why this is one of the most 

unique animated movies we've seen this year, the latest feat of 

stop-motion animation from the same Laika studio artists who had 

conjured up the similarly bewitching 'Coraline'.



Both have at their heart titular characters who are outcasts in their 

social circle. For Norman, his ability to see ghosts have made him a 

pariah among his schoolmates – and the worst of the lot is a 

pea-brained nose-picking bully named Alvin (Christopher Mintz-Plasse). 

Home is not much better. His dad (Jeff Garlin) is none too pleased he 

claims to be speaking to his dead grandmother, his mother (Leslie Mann) 

dismisses it as a phase, and his bimbotic teenage sister Courtney (Anna 

Kendrick) just can't be bothered. 



The film's writer is Chris Butler - a storyboard artist who honed his 

skills on Tim Burton's 'Corpse Bride' and Henry Selick's 'Coraline' - 

and his experience with the contemporaries in quirky animation has 

served him well in creating a lovable adolescent misfit in Norman. 

Before Norman is even confronted with the challenge you know will turn 

him into the unlikely hero, you've already fallen in love with this 

sweet unassuming kid with the rectangular quizzical eyebrows and a head 

of vertical brown hair. 



Instead of sugar-coating the reality of Norman's social life, Butler 

states the truth as it is – 'You can't stop bullying – it's part of 

human nature," says Norman's chubby buddy Neil (Tucker Albrizzi), 

similarly ostracised in school on account of his size. The honesty is 

refreshing, and so is the plot that follows, involving a 300-year old 

witch's curse that invokes half-dozen zombies to rise from their graves 

and terrorise the local townsfolk of Blithe's Hollow. 



A twist late into the tale on the witch's identity makes this an 

unexpectedly moving and thoughtful parable on acceptance and empathy, 

two morals which tie in beautifully with Norman's own story of 

rejection. Along the way to the surprisingly intense finale, Butler and 

his co-director Sam Fell inject a veritable sense of fun into the 

proceedings which unfold like a roller-coaster ride into a haunted 

house of terrors, made all the more enjoyable by Norman's motley crew 

comprising of Alvin, Courtney, Neil and Neil's jockish older brother 

Mitch (Casey Affleck). 



While distracting the younger ones with a cornucopia of visual gags, 

Butler packs bits of surprises for the adults in the audience. You'll 

chuckle along with the bits of deadpan humour – "Do you think they'll 

eat our brains?" Alvin screams in fear. "Yeah, you'll be safe," Norman 

replies – as well as the 'blink and you'll miss' tributes to horror 

classics from 'Halloween' to 'Friday the 13th'. These will be lost on 

the kids, but what parents should really take time to explain is 

Butler's message of embracing those who are different from us, a lesson 

all too precious in today's increasingly xenophobic world.



The same attention to story and character has also gone into the 

lovingly-detailed animation – while at first sight cruder looking than 

today's more commonly seen computer-generated visuals, the distinctive 

stop-motion rendering is nothing short of gorgeous, and one truly 

marvels at the amount of effort that has gone into the individual 

action-oriented sequences that have so much going on at the same time. 

The technique has also allowed the animators to sculpt finer detail 

into each of the characters, which come to life in a certain pop-up 

fashion that fits perfectly in 3D. 



Using the traditional narrative of a misfit turned unlikely hero, 

'Paranorman' weaves a fantastically dazzling, consistently engaging and 

surprisingly touching story that qualifies it as one of the most 

original and certainly one of the best animated movies of the year. 

Yes, it isn't as family-friendly as something you might expect from the 

usual Disney or Dreamworks fare, but you'll appreciate the level of 

maturity and wit that has gone into this impressive stop-motion 

animation. 




