9
It's November 1st, 1971, I'm sitting here with Carolyn Perron, who with her family, has been experiencing supernatural occurrences.

The key with The Conjuring is not that it has freshness on its side, as
evidenced by the ream of horror fans arguing on internet sites about
"nothing new on the table" , but while those fans will be going hungry
for a very, very long time, The Conjuring does everything right for the
splinter of horror it deals with.There's a lot to admire about a horror film that in this day and age
stands tall and proud against the ream of remakes, sequels and teen
friendly slashers that "haunt" the multiplexes with all too much
frequency these days. Free of gore and sex, this was automatically
going to alienate a good portion of the lustful members of the horror
fan base, but for those who like their horror served with appetising
scares and a cauldron of suspense, then this delivers plenty to your
particular table.Forget the "based on a true story" tag, since it's kind of irrelevant
in this new technological age, it's a selling gimmick that actually
means "this story might be true and we might have played with it a
bit". Regardless of hoax charges and embellishments, just buy into the
premise, commit to it as a scary story in the same way as director
James Wan has, for then the rewards are there for the compliant.Story essentially is based around an investigation in the early
seventies by paranormal specialists Ed and Lorraine Warren, who aided
the Perron family as they were victims of dreadful supernatural events
at their Rhode Island home. Wan builds it deftly, letting us into the
Perron families lives as they move into what they believe to be a dream
home. Then things start to happen, but again Wan builds it in slow
instances, creating a palpable sense of dread, his camera work
intelligent. So when the big moments come they have maximum impact and
have us also yearning for the Warren's to get involved.There is no over killing of the boo-jump scares, they are placed with
care and marry up superbly with the mounting tension. Naturally all the
cliché conventions of the haunted house movie are here, strange smells,
creaky doors, ominous cellar and etc, yet these are supplemented with
Wan's talented knack for a good scare and a very effective production
design. From mysterious bruises and literal leg pulls – breath holding
games of hide and seek – to bona fide pant soiling moments, The
Conjuring is a lesson in sustained unease until the big finale is
unleashed.The script is devoid of cheese and pointless filler, itself refreshing
in a horror sub-genre that suffers often with these problems. Joseph
Bishara's musical score is an absolute nerve shredder, and again it's a
refreshing accompaniment because it doesn't resort to telegraphed
shrieks to tell us to be afraid, it never overwhelms a scene. John
Leonetti's cinematography has Gothic textures, both in the house and
outside of the lakeside farmhouse, while the strong lead cast of Vera
Farmiga, Patrick Wilson, Lili Taylor and Ron Livingston come up trumps
for sure.Met with critical and box office success, The Conjuring justifies its
reputation as a superb haunted house movie. 9/10
