1
Star Trek: Into Bad Fan-Fiction...

This would give Prometheus a run for it's money, but at least Star
Treks plot made sense. Only problem is it was really reaching to
connect the dots. So much that if Gene was alive today, it would have
killed him.In fact I'm calling out anyone attached to this movie as to really
being a Trek fan. Star Trek isn't suppose to be about Halo firefights,
starting wars, and building warships. It's suppose to be how we as
humans came together as technology on earth advanced. Then traveled the
stars sharing our wisdom to civilizations who were just like we once
were.If anything this movie is a reflection on today's society and it's
sickens me. When the original TV showed aired it was during troubled
times ( I'm only 37, but I learned all about that stuff from The Wonder
Years). People 30 and under had little hope for the future.Wars, Cold Wars, Nukes, Political Corruption-- No one at that time
thought we as the human race would live to see the year 2000. Then came
Star Trek. It showed a future where mankind put its differences aside.
We worked together for a common goal. We seek knowledge through
exploration and looking back at our own history. And not only that, but we were the conscience that helped others see
the wrongs they were committing. Star Trek gave young people hope.THEN THERE'S THIS MOVIEExplosions, Loud music, Gun Fights, Fist fights, head squashing,
jumping, running, explosions, explosions, explosions. Did I mention
Explosions?!! I'm not sure because this movie probably had more
explosions than TOS and TNG combined.This is an insult to what Trek once was. It pisses on what Star Trek 2
was really about-- The man who never faced death, but stared it in the
face-- Only in this one he dies and is brought back to life without a
sequel. It crapped all over Kahn as well, who was in essence a remnant
of who the human race was in the late 20th century. NOT A FREAKING
SUPER SOLDIER WHO JUST MURDER-DEATH-KILLED FOR NO REASON.AND ABOUT THAT PLOT.Kahn was a one man army in this movie-- So one would think if he
defrosted his people, all 72 of them, they'd be unstoppable-- Instead
he puts them in Torpedoes to ruin Robocops plan of starting a war with
the Klingons to defrost them later...WHAT THE AM I TALKING ABOUT I
DUNNO BUT THAT WAS THE PLOT!!This movie is for morons who couldn't get into the original Star Trek
because they probably see it as old, boring, and full of bad actors.
Let's not forget the pride of TOS was the fact all 80 episodes were
well written.Something Into Darkness isn't. This isn't even good fan-fiction. This
is an embarrassment. It cost millions to make, it will make over
billion at the box office.Like I said, this is more of a reflection on our society in general and
it disturbs me that Star Trek as turned into a mindless 2 hr romp and
not a beacon of hope for the future of mankind like the original series
did.The only HOPE these JJ Treks bring is the Star Wars movies he'll make
will be just as mindless, which fits perfectly for Star Wars, not for
Star Trek.
