9
The Theory of Everything - While there is life, there is hope.

"There should be no boundary between human endeavour," Stephen Hawking
explains during a press conference. It is this line that strikes a
chord at the very centre of James Marsh's incredible biopic on one of
the most brilliant scientists of our time. The Theory of Everything is
not just a story about the science behind the beginnings of our
universe, but the science of love; and how life's challenges that we
face everyday, shape who we are and what we achieve. Eddie Redmayne and
Felicity Jones turn in phenomenal performances as the revolutionary
Stephen Hawking and his former wife Jane Wilde. Eddie's mentally and
physically challenging role, displaying Hawkings brilliance and motor
neuron disease, are extremely commendable and impressive (a sure fire
for a Best Actor nomination at next year's Oscars). On the more
sensitive side, Felecity displays the endless love and powerful fight
Jane brought to the Hawking household. As the years pass, their lives
are changed tremendously in very profound and heart-wrenching ways. The
movie does not shy away from making Hawking a complex character, as
well as Jane, showing both their positive and negative sides. I really
liked that the movie was able to shape them into fully well-rounded
characters despite the "romance" aspect of it. The score for the film
is tremendous.. absolutely outstanding! It hits all the right marks,
brings upon emotions right when you are on the verge of tears, leaves
you in awe after a beautiful monologue, and finishes with a melancholy
but very fitting tone. The script and directing were top-notch.. right
up there with the best... and the cinematography? give that guy an
award already! A masterpiece to watch. While some critics may be quick
to judge how the film focuses more on the romance rather than the
science that made Hawking so renowned, I believe that the love is what
made him who he is today. Human endeavour is endless... Stephen never
gave up hope, nor did Jane... and though their lives ended up in
different places, it was their years together that displayed to us how
a little bit of hope can go a very, very long way.Verdict: A beautiful story that shows how time and love are
limitless... no beginning, no end (despite his earlier hypothesis).
*****In Theatres: November 7th, 2014 (USA), January 2, 2015 (UK)
