6
Too Much Style, Not Enough Content.

Want to see a film about Spring Breakers turning into hard core gangsta
b*****s? Right, neither did I. And yes, the slang spelling of gangster
is totally mandatory in this situation.If you haven't heard of Spring Breakers, I'm sure you will soon largely
due to the hype it's generating because of its cast. Spring Breakers
follows Vanessa Hudgens, Selena Gomez, Ashley Benson, and Rachel Korine
on their spring break in sunny Florida. In order to get there, the
girls rob a local restaurant and the trip that follows is a bit more
outrageous than the girls expect. Yes, it contains your typical 'spring
break' parties, but along with the drugs and alcohol, the girls find
themselves in the company of a local arms dealer (James Franco). The
path that follows isn't what the girls had planned, and may be a little
too much for some of them.Now, I wanted to like this movie. Honestly, I really did. But there
were too many things I couldn't quite handle, like a strange musical
moment where Franco serenades the girls with an oh too popular Britney
Spears song. Yes, that did happen, and no I will not get back those 3
minutes of my life.I will give the film credit in a lot of areas. Personally, I found
Director/Writer Harmony Korine unique and the film pushes most of the
cast members (Hudgens, Gomez and Benson in particular) out of their
stereotypes, and in a strange way, that worked. The problem was I
wasn't sold on the plot. As the girl's 'adventure' with Franco
continues, I lost interest. Yeah, I could buy the coming of age bits,
but the whole 'party girls turning into James Franco's hardcore gangsta
b*****s' bit was too ridiculous for me. I understand that there are
probably a lot of 'deep' factors in this film that a lot of critics are
going to obsess over, but personally, I couldn't overlook the
ridiculousness of some moments enough to appreciate that other side of
the film.Basically, if you want my advice, this movie isn't for your average
film goer. If you want something you can sit and enjoy, skip this in
theaters, and ignore it by the time it pops up on Netflix. And if you
were curious about it because your buddy told you Vanessa Hudgens boobs
are in it, you were lied to my friend. Completely lied to.For more Reviews, check out http://meetmeinthebackrow.wordpress.com/
