4
An annoyingly dull remake which I'd hoped would be much better.

I'm a big fan of the original Robocop but I try to approach films like
this with an open mind and I ask both "does it work as a movie on its
own merits?" as well as "does it work as a remake". And the reason I'm
saying "remake" and not "reboot" is because that's what this film is.
It follows the same set up and plot from the original but with a few
tweaks whether SONY want to admit that or not. I was really hoping this film would surprise me because I'd started
hearing pretty favourable reviews for it so I went into it not really
knowing what to expect. I went into this thinking if it's good, rock
on, if it's bad, I'll at least get some fun out of it because how can a
film about a cyborg super-cop not be fun? But I was personally shocked
how dull this was in its execution.Forgetting about comparisons, as an innocent harmless little science
fiction action movie on its own, it's really boring. In an attempt to
justify remaking the classic, change is made for changes sake which
means we've got a really awkwardly put together script and this
completely lets the movie down. The most glaring problem is Alex Murphy AKA Robocop. Joel Kinneman, who
I'm sure is a good actor, brings no personality, enthusiasm or
authority to the character. There's no effort put into his physical
performance and he just looks uncomfortable in the role. But the real
problem is that the script gives him nothing to work with. Robocop's
whole "regaining his humanity" character arc from the original is so
sloppily and horribly done here. At one point he's ordinary Alex Murphy
in the suit, then he's a robot when in combat and a human every other
time, and then they f*ck with his mind so much that he becomes the
Robocop that we know from the original - PROBLEM IS they've spent so
long wasting time not being able to decide what they want this guy to
be that by the time he's finally normal Robocop, we're over half way
through the film so he only remains this way for about 10 minutes. Then
after one stop at his house, he's back to being human. I was STUNNED
how awfully this was done. This film seems so distracted with its own meaning and subtext that
instead of trusting the audience to catch on and figure it all out
themselves, while giving us a thrilling story with fun characters, it
spends its whole run time having Robocop's brain and system being
messed around by scientists, while he just stands in a lab not being in
control of the situation and every other character around him just
explains to the audience what's happening and the philosophical
implications of everything they're doing to him. It's SO boring.And instead of exploring these ideas, the film just kinda goes "Oh hey
Corporations are bad aren't they? Oh hey they're messing around with
his mind that's kinda unethical isn't it?".And the film doesn't even come to a conclusion on what it all means or
what Alex Murphy gains from this experience, if anything. After having
his brain messed around by a bunch of people, he kind of just snaps
back into humanity, kills the bad guy and that's kind of it, the end.In this film Murphy becomes Robocop in a different way and you don't
need violence to tell this version of the story so the loss of the R-
rating doesn't exactly hurt the film per-say, but the lack of a clear
villain really does. Instead of giving us charismatic, memorable bad
guys, the film just kind of points fingers at people that MIGHT be bad
like the employees of Omnicorp, one guy that seems like a Clarence
Boddiker type character but we find out nothing about him and a few
thugs that Robocop takes out like it's nothing so I guess they're not
important.It's also unclear as to whether Omnicorp are behind Murphy's accident
or if it was just some random thug in the street that felt like bombing
a car. I'll give credit to the filmmakers for at least ATTEMPTING to recreate
the social satire from the original where this time they're going for a
more Fox News type of thing, but where in the original they have a
sense of humour with it and trust you to catch onto the propaganda
yourself, this one just has Samuel L. Jackson yelling at the camera
being so obvious and humourless that it misses the entire point of it.The family focus really should have been where the reboot got its feet
off the ground, to actually say "this one explores something different
from the original, and it's done well" but nothing interesting is done
with it.This film is just so unfocused. Without any clear idea of character
arcs, story, or themes, and horrible pacing, it doesn't so much play
out as it does feel like a list of things that just keep on happening.
It lacks those natural story beats that carry an audience through a
film. "Robocop" could have excelled as an actual reboot where the concept was
taken in a different direction, where someone creative saw an
opportunity to tell a fresh story and took it. But as it stands, as a
movie on its own it's awkwardly boring and dumb and as remake it pales
in comparison to the original. And Considering this is the more serious
and humourless version of the original, that's just boring in and of
itself.
