8
Overall, Iron Man 3 will divide many avid comic book fans, but is still a fun, exciting, and damn entertaining conclusion to the trilogy.

Heres the story; playboy billionaire industrialist engineer Tony Stark,
aka Iron Man, is recovering from his battle in New York against aliens
with the help of the Avengers, Marvels cannon of action-prone and
muscle bound heroes. He's previously rebuilt his body after being held
captive by Middle eastern extremists, in the process created a metal,
enemy pulverizing suit, equipped with flying jets and energy blasters
of course, defeated his crazy competitor, a vengeful, bird loving
Russian, and now an alien race. Bottom line: the man's had his fair
share of ass-kicking. This understandably, is beginning to effect him.
He's having anxiety attacks and the fact that a supposed terrorist
labeled the Mandarin is targeting civilians, and maybe even some
friends of Mr. Stark, isn't helping. Sure enough as the story
progresses, his pals, president, prodigy, love, and life are on the
line. With out giving away many of the films twists and turns, Tony
ends up somewhat back where he started and must find the tools to save
his fate before time runs out and you know the story. Or do you...? The good: Iron Man 3's action sequences dazzle with "Marvel-ous" (sorry
couldn't help myself) visual effects, but the real show stealer is the
films extremely clever, frequently hilarious, and awesomely self aware
humor. Shane Black peppers the script with so much chewable wit and
varying, unexpected twists that you can't help yourself from having a
great time amidst the violent chaos, even though some may find the
jokes distracting. I beg to differ. RDJ owns the role and steals the
show as Iron Man once more. Per usual, he adds in his perfect mixture
of narcissistic snakiness with evolving dramatic struggles, but never
takes it all to seriously. Not only does he do well, but the entire
cast all are fairly strong and add their fair share of laughs,
deliciously evil or humorously likable moments, and seem to be having a
good time as well. The story is thick but presented in a well paced and orchestrated
fashion and it strings together the explosions in a clean juxtaposition
(oxymoron?) with it's reveals and character developments. The special
effects are top notch and immerse the audience into the fast paced
action sequences, and they also carry the torch on from The Amazing
Spiderman in which the SFX are a slight notch more realistic and
crisper than previous Marvel outings of the past 3 years. And now for
the direction, while Shane Black doesn't completely steal the show
visually, he sure as hell puts his personal stamp on the film, and I
welcome it. He has taken the previous material and blended it with his
different style and humor and created what I believe to be a more
unique and quirkier superhero flick that delivers much of what it
promises, but surprises as well in areas you wouldn't expect. Many die
hard comic fans will be angered or even infuriated by the liberties
Black takes with the source material, but again as a non-comic book
reader, you won't hear any complaining from me. I love his ambition and
some of the daring choices he makes along the journey. In conclusion I
think that he has tied an equal parts goofy but still satisfying bow on
the explosive trilogy, and has made me excited for more Marvel outings
to come. As a side note, go into it with an open mind, stay after the credits,
you won't be disappointed!
