6
Not great...but not horrible either.

Despite the fact I haven't been impressed with much of their work
lately, you can't deny the fact that Sylvester Stallone and Arnold
Schwarzenegger are the grandfathers of the action genre. So what's it
like when you put the two of them together in a film (which should have
happened a long time ago) and it's not one of those "Expendables"
movies that play out like a bad fake, fan-made trailer on YouTube?
Actually, you get a fairly decent film.I wont' play coy here; "Escape Plan" isn't completely spectacular. The
film has its problems. For example, Vinnie Jones is in the film and
he's just lethargically playing the same character he's been riding on
since his Guy Ritchie days (only, he's lost the unique wit and humor he
had in those days) but at least he's not playing the Juggernaut in this
film because that was just embarrassing for all of us. Secondly, the
movie shifts tones during the climax and it was slightly jarring. The
film goes from a movie about guys sneaking out of an inescapable prison
to guys just deciding to shoot their way out. It goes from interesting
to "eh, let's become a generic action film" very quickly. Finally, the
movie has some unresolved plot threads towards its end and it make a
mad dash like a demon is on its tail to try and get them resolved
before the credits decide to shut the whole thing down. However, despite the problems, the movie has its elements working for
it and makes it a watchable film and something destined to be played
numerous times on FX or Spike. Stallone and Schwarzenegger are terrific
together and are giving performances that are probably the best they've
done in the last decade. Plus, it's very clear Arnold is having a blast
with his role and it was sorta infectious. Finally, Jim Caviezel is a
decent antagonist as the film's evil warden to the high tech
prisonthat is, when you can hear him. Caviezel really enjoyed
whispering all his lines."Escape Plan" may not be the most memorable film of either Stallone's
or Schwarzenegger's career but the movie is mildly entertaining and
worked for what it is.Hi! My name is Rev. Ron and I love movies! So much so that I write a
blog where I review whatever film I am currently watching (Old or
new!). You can read a more in-depth review of this film (and others) at
revronmovies.blogspot.com.
