7
An entertaining, but not totally satisfactory, political satire

The election period in the United States has traditionally been a
fountain of humorous material exploited to the maximum by the
comedians, most of them on TV, but also in cinema, as we can see this
year in the film The Campaign, directed by Jay Roach, whose filmography
includes some excellent comedies (the Austin Powers trilogy)...and
other deeply irritating ones (Meet the Fockers, Dinner for Schmucks). I
would also like to point out that The Campaign isn't Roach's first
incursion into the political field, because he also made the TV movies
Recount and Game Change, which both made a brilliant work in portraying
the pressures and vices from a presidential campaign from a serious and
(more or less) impartial point of view. Could The Campaign achieve the
same but in a humorous context? I don't think so, but I can't deny I
found the film entertaining nevertheless.I think there's an excellent political satire hidden in some place of
The Campaign. The general premise of an inept lout who is transformed
into a charismatic candidate manipulated by the economical elite is
very interesting; and even though it's not completely original, I think
it's appropriate to occasionally remember it in order to recognize it
whenever we find it in the real world (something which undoubtedly
happens with a sad frequency). However, the few intelligence from the
screenplay is diluted by the coarse and vulgar humor employed as
vehicle of the message. I have to admit I laughed in various occasions
(specially during the "Our Father" scene), and I definitely found some
ingenuity in the creation of absurd but credible situations (at least
in the filthy context of contemporary politics)...however, for every
scene that works, there's five or six which only provoke whining,
specially due to the tendency the actors show to "play the fool". I
think this is a very subjective point in any comedy; but in my personal
taste, the humor always works better when the actors take their roles
seriously and let the comedy to naturally flow from their attitudes and
reactions. When they try to force the laughs with a physical or verbal
affectation, they lose spontaneity and, specially, destruct the reality
of the characters in order to transform them into caricatures.And besides of that, I found the screenplay of The Campaign too
innocent and predictable, taking a safe route until leading to a happy
ending. So, I guess that not all the political satires can be as subtle
and effective as Wag the Dog or In the Loop; however, I can give a
moderate recommendation to The Campaign as an entertaining comedy,
despite not being very memorable.
