6
entertaining  enough to be worth watching  but the 2 guys were like cardboard and i hate to say it but Blake Lively is terrible in it .

It was OK enough---it was definitely well directed--but the film
would've benefited a lot from three better actors in the central roles.
Don't get me wrong--its not that Taylor Kitch or Aaron Johnson aren't
decent enough--both play their roles with exactly the same kind of
stiffness that i guess suit their characters' circumstance but neither
really add anything beyond what the screenplay has already provided
them.. like if this were made say 10-15 years ago and you'd of had
Steve Zhan and Ben Affleck in it i'm not saying it would've been batter
but the two of them would've made you care for what might happen to the
main characters a bit more i feel like. I'd rather not get into the
lack of any kind of convincing emoting from Blake Lively here--- (She's
supposed to be afraid for her life here--and somehow its like she's
barely miffed---its as if instead of her life that's being threatened
its her wi-fi connection.) having read the book this was based on--the
character O in the story was a lot more resourceful and a lot more
crazy then Blake Lively ever suggests in the two hours of running
time---would that they had cast literally anybody else in her part,just
off the top of my head would Lauren Ambrose from six feet under have
been considered too old??? would Krysten Ritter??? would Kirsten Bell??
hell Alexis Bidel might of been able to pull this off better (and as
much as i love Rory Gilmore emoting was never exactly her strong suit)
at least Blake Lively's narrating was OK...i just really wish they
could've found someone who could have really put this movie over the
top here. God again if this was made like 10-15 years ago--imagine what
a younger Juliette Lewis or a younger Illeana Douglas could've done
with this.That's really all i actually wanted to say cause everything else was
fine enough--i was kind of expecting it to be more over the top if
anything given that its Oliver St one's first crime film in a little
while but its definitely over the top enough to satisfy anyone looking
for an over the top crime movie. Its good enough that it overcomes the
somewhat major obstacles in its path to keep you watching and keep you
entertained but again with a little different casting--this could of
been first rate.
