5
One of the biggest disappointments of the year.

The Counsellor is easily one of the biggest disappointments in film all
year. It just sounded so promising; extremely capable actors, an
inventive director, and what seemed like an intriguing story to top it
off. So why did it fail so miserably?The answer lies within the screenplay. Written by Cormac McCarthy (who
wrote the novels The Road and No Country for Old Men), The Counsellor's
screenplay was absolutely brutal. Sadly, it wasn't even lazy writing
that ruined it, it was the fact that it was essentially written as a
novel. Let me explain.Now, I haven't read McCarthy's novels. However, it's very clear that a
novelist wrote the screenplay for this movie. The entire movie was
essentially what could be looked at as a word for word adaption of what
an imaginary "The Counsellor" novel could have been. The awful,
unrealistic lines that came out of the character's mouths didn't fit
the role they were portraying at all. Sentences such as "the truth has
no temperature" were cringe-worthy to hear, especially out of the mouth
of the very capable Cameron Diaz. There were too many examples of such
lines to write out here, but the majority of what came out of
character's mouths were very similar. It just...isn't what people would
say, unless maybe they worked on a set of a Shakespearian play. And when the lines don't work, neither do the actors. Everyone
(exluding possibly Michael Fassbender, who was given much less hollow
Shakespearian lines (lets call them McCarthers), just acted hollow and
rigid. Rightfully so too, as their characters were given no more
substance and therefore the actors had nothing to work with. Did we care about any of the characters? No. Did we understand why The
Counsellor wanted in on the drug trade even though he was already rich?
No. Did we get any character development throughout the near two hour
film? No. Why did The Counsellor even enter the drug trade, knowing that his wife
could wind up becoming a target if things every turned ugly? It was
confirmed later in the movie how much he truly loved her, obviously
more than any money he would earn, so why put her at risk for a few
extra bucks you don't already have? His motivations made no sense. The plot itself was fairly straightforward, except leaving the theatre
I found myself alarmingly confused as to what happened because there
was so many tasteless McCarthers being stuffed down the character's
throats to try and figure out why the characters were doing what they
were doing and what they were going to do.The Counsellor wasn't bad in all aspects, though. The cinematography
was very good, as was the editing and sound editing. The sound of
bullets being shot on a desolate road was chillingly real, as was the
sound of those who had their heads removed. Visually, the film pretty
much hit the spot. The actors did what they could with the script too,
but I doubt anyone could have really done any better.It really seems like the team behind The Counsellor went into it
wanting to turn a drug trade plot into something Shakespearian and
hollow in the sense that it's a tragedy. For a good example on how to
do this, watch the entire series of Breaking Bad. For a good example on
how to try to do this and fail miserably, watch (or try to watch) The
Counsellor. It's so sad to see so much talent and money go to waste,
but sometimes these films are important to have so the generation of
emerging new filmmakers know what not to do when crafting their dramas.5/10
