3
Pretty Dull

Well, he we have another film that looked vaguely interesting on the
trailers but turned out to be really boring. Well, there must have been
quite a few people wanting to see it though because there were a number
of sessions at my local cinema that had sold out, and I ended up
purchasing the ticket the night before so I didn't have to waste my
time walking all the way to the cinema only to discover that it had
sold out again. Well, I didn't waste my time in that regard, but I do
feel that I did waste my time sitting in that cinema for two hours
watching a film that I really couldn't get all that excited about.The story of Tarzan was the creation of Edgar Rice Burroughs, and is
about a man who grew up in the jungle among the apes, went back to
civilisation, hated it, and returned to the jungle. When he was first
in the jungle, and the main reason he returned to civilisation, was
because he met and fell in love with Jane. This film, however, begins
after he has returned to England and settled down. However King Leopold
of Belgium is bankrupt and is looking for ways to get so money, so he
sends this guy to the Congo to establish an ivory and diamond trade.
The catch is that in doing so he is going to eventually destroy the
Congo.There are a number of flash backs to when Tarzan was first in the
jungle, and how he eventually meets Jane (and also how he became
Tarzan, namely that his parents were killed by apes, but he was rescued
as a baby). We also discover that he has made some enemies, namely
because he killed the son of a tribal chief so as to protect his ape
parents. This all comes together to a grand finale when a horde of
wilder beasts run through a Belgium sea port and they eventually drive
the Belgians out of the Congo.As I said, the film was pretty boring, and Tarzan himself was actually
really annoying. In fact I really couldn't stand the character – it
just seems to be an excuse to have some guy swing around the trees on
vines, and run around bare chested. We also had to have the token
American Negro (who, if he had fought in the civil war, would probably
be in his fifties by the time the movie was set, and he certainly
didn't look all that old). Obviously, this was all about how he had
come here to expose Leopold's crimes in the Congo, and to also free the
natives from slavery.No doubt this film touches on a lot of issues – such as the rape and
pillaging of the Congo by the Western powers. Even though it is a
sovereign country, it is till one of the most dangerous places in the
world, and that is if you stay inside Kinshasa – out in the jungle it
is even worse. The film explores ivory trade, western imperialism, and
of course the exploitation of the natives. However it also has this
hero – Tarzan – come swinging out of the trees to save everybody. In
the end this film was pretty dull, and I think I'll just go back to
watching the Avengers movie.
