2
Done

OK, that did it, I'm Done with watching Transformers movies at the
theater. I will just wait until the next movies are on video or ready
to stream. I am a huge Transformers fan and I know the mythology well
but this movie takes the mythology and flips it upside down and
backward. As a movie on its own, it is a hot mess of bad writing,
editing, and pacing. BUT Michael does know how to shoot a "scene" but
they are strung together incoherently.So What I Liked were the music and the effects. That's pretty much it.
Steve Jablonsky's score was over 100 times better than this movie
deserves. I really like how he brought back some of the original themes
but made them the sound of desperation. The confusing climax had this
mellow desperate theme (you hear in the trailer) that in a better movie
would have worked very well but it does nothing for you because whats
on screen is in the way. The two tracks that are worth noting are
"Sacrifice" and "We Have To Go". Just listen to those tracks and if you
have a filmmaking state of mind you can imagine a better movie with
those tones. Also, the special effects were well done compared to AGE
OF EXTINCTION's hammy job. I know it's all CGI that we have seen before
but the imagery that was composed is awesome to look at especially the
climax with the parts of the planet hanging down and "scraping" earth.Now What I Didn't Like (Got Time? then read on) #1 the editing. This is
by far, to me, the worst edited movie in history. Like I said Michael
Bay films the scenes very well (like the opening battle) but when they
are put together you have no idea what the hell is going on. And then
the noticeable aspect ratio. So nobody in the editing room noticed that
different shots had black bars at the top and bottom disappearing then
reappearing. This happens because some shots were shot in IMAX. I do
defend Michael Bay because I do think he is a better director than this
(The Rock, Bad Boys, Armageddon, Pearl Harbor) but he really dropped
the ball on this film. He knows how to shoot a sequence but that's all
it has going for it. If you watch a couple of shots on YouTube before
seeing the movie you would be like "wow that looks like a good movie"
NO it's just a good shot and sequence. And supposedly they had a
writers room come up with a plot by using Transformers mythos, HUH?
Well, a lot of things irked me. Without giving away any spoilers I'm
gonna name the mythos they got wrong (if you are a Transformers fan
then you'll know what Im talking about)...Nemesis Prime, Bumblebee's
Abilities, Hot Rod, Megatron/Galvatron, The Quintassons, Cybertron,
Barricade???,The Ark, and a very important evil transformer that I will
not give away the name because it is a spoiler but once you find out
what his alternate mode is your gonna flip and wanna walk out of the
theater.I am so glad that Michael Bay is going to step down as director of this
series because obviously, he does not care about the problems these
films have. I say hire an up a coming director who gives a damn about
making a good movie and not in it for the cash grab. But as for now, I
am done spending my money in hopes of a great movie experience. Want to
see a good Transformers movie, then go see the animated "The
Transformers- The Movie"
