8
He will find you

After being stuck in development hell for almost two decades and facing
several false rumors about the production start that led to severe
frustration, the wait is over as the Creeper returns in the
long-awaited "Jeepers Creepers 3." I never thought I would get to say
that. For those expecting a sequel to 2003's, "Jeepers Creepers 2,"
you're in for a surprise because this picture is actually a direct
sequel to the original film.It's about a shell-shocked, Sgt Davis Tubbs (Brandon Smith) who
reluctantly joins a group of hunters, led by, Sheriff Dan Teshtago
(Stan Shaw). While the Creeper wrecks havoc on a local farming
community, a shattered woman, Gaylen Brandon (Meg Foster) discovers
something buried on her property of extreme importance to the beast.
The Creeper fights back when its enemies get close to discovering it's
closely guarded secrets.Set between the first two movies, how they tie it all together is
unbelievable which means the Creeper doesn't die. That's Correct. To be
honest, it's not as scary as the original, as expected, but I would go
as far as to say it's the best entry in the franchise due to the story
being intrinsically well written with plenty of clues about the
Creepers origins to keep you entertained and thinking.Picking up right after the first film, Sgt Tubbs and his officers find
the Creepers Truck outside in the parking lot and realize it's
booby-trapped with spikes that shoot down for anyone stupid enough to
stick there head through the back door. It drops explosive bombs that
act as homing devices and it's bulletproof. Sheriff Teshtago arrives
and explains to Tubbs that he saw the Creeper 23 years knows about the
beast. A tow truck hauling the Creepers truck turns deadly when he
drops on the back, severs the cables and makes his appearance on top of
his truck sporting a snazzy new red shirt and his axe.Gaylen Brandon is one of the interesting characters. She is the
grandmother of, Addie (Gabrielle Haugh), who is a character that has a
dark and sad history as she lives with her grandmother on a farm, on
the verge of insolvency. Gaylen routinely shouts at a ghost only she
can see, who turns out to be her son, Kenny (Jordan Salloum). If you
remember in the original movie, he was mentioned along with his
girlfriend, Darla at the beginning. He warns her that 23 years before
something happened and before the Creeper could find something Kenny
found and stashed away, he was killed and the Creeper ran out of time
before he could find it. Gaylen, needing to know what her son was
killed for digs up a relic and discovers the secret behind her son's
death.A lot of fuss is made about the relic buried on Gaylen's farm and
serves as the second act of the picture while the Creeper terrorizes
the local townsfolk. The relic suggests that we will get to learn the
dark secrets about the Creeper and provide some information on how he
came to be or what he is. Well, we don't find out anything actually;
not even a glimpse of what happens when two characters touch it and
fall back into a white-eyed trance. This might upset some fans but it
gives you a strong sense of danger and evil when one of the characters
who touched the relic acts mysterious when he says "It's ancient." Like
he saw something truly evil which works as a strong buildup and it
gives you the idea that the Creeper is much bigger than we think and it
serves as a ruse for when we do find out what he is, it will be a
shocking revelation.Most of the movie has the Creeper running around in the daylight which
brings out some flaws but that does not mean the movie is bad, not by a
long shot. For one thing, we should be grateful we got the film at all
and that means more than the Creepers wings having a few holes in them
because the budget is lower than the previous pictures. The Creeper's
wings are CGI in some scenes but it's not terrible CGI. Nearing the end
of the picture, one of the characters, who spends most of the movie in
the back of the Creepers truck hiding is discovered and she manages to
outsmart the beast and escape. For those expecting a huge showdown,
you're not going to get it. Sheriff Teshtago puts up a strong fight and
the Creeper has his way with pretty much everyone except for a few
stragglers but we see another side of the Creeper when he finds what he
is looking for but also finds something left for him that seriously
pisses him off and we see the beast scared as he squeals and crows
starting dropping dead around him. Maybe this means something?A lot of the film is fun, exciting and forgivable because we get to
explore the monster's romp from 23 years before and with all the clues
and the ambiguity left at its peak, it sets up for "Jeepers Creepers 4"
being the final installment and when we do find out what he is, it
won't be a boring revelation since we are left to wonder so much from
this picture and that is more effective than a simple "This is what he
is and this is how we kill him." like most stupid horror movies do. In
the end, someone from the past returns to set up the fourth movie and I
don't think we are going to have to wait almost 23 years for it. For
what it's worth, "Jeepers Creepers 3" beats the Hollywood garbage we
have been seeing for many years and it is well made and enjoyable. If
we get "Jeepers Creepers 4," it will be a thrilling conclusion.
