1
This Is 40 is horrible from the minute we re-meet Debbie

"Marketed as a comedy this is film just try's to be a moving drama
about a very unlikeable couple that make no sense about the actions
they do and the conclusion of the film made no sense to what the aim of
the film was" In 2007 Knocked Up was released and like most people I found it
enjoyable so with this film Judd Apatow decided to take two characters
from that film and stretch them out to try make them more fuller
characters. Pete (Paul Rudd) and Debbie (Leslie Mann) are both
celebrating their 40th birthday's in the same week even if Debbie does
not want people to know her real age. During this week we see their
daughters who tend to scream at them a lot as well as both Debbie and
Pete's businesses failing and neither one of the two able to be true to
themselves blaming everyone else for their problems.This film from minute one was insufferable for me because of how
annoying Debbie was as soon as she was on screen. She seemed to act
insane about being 40 which is not that old but that is just how the
character is written to be. The film is way too long for the story that
is being told because two and half hours is way too long for a comedy
that is set in one week as we see all these events happen in the main
characters life's. The film talks about the family having many problems
so them spending money on an expensive trip makes no sense to the
story. The ending of the film was not a good conclusion to the story
because so much stuff in the film did not get a full story but also
Debbie and Pete staying together made really no sense to how the two
had treated each other throughout the whole film.Leslie Mann plays Debbie and Mann as an actress just cannot act in my
mind. In almost everything Mann has done she is trying to make me like
her but I just do not because she never really stretches herself. The
character she is given is horribly written as a shrill women who
complains so much that I do not know why anyone would like her. Mann
try's to be dramatic with a blank stare on her face and I could not
help but laugh at how unbelievably bad she was in every scene. Paul
Rudd plays Pete and he has been great in small smarts but even though
he is not as bad as Mann he is not much better then she is. His
character is also written badly but at least Rudd knows how to play
this man because he always plays the same character which is fine but I
wish he would try at least shake it up. These two are the only leads
and there are way too many supporting characters by some of my
favourite comedic actors who are wasted and when some are given funny
lines they got no laughs from me at all.The film tried to be funny and heart warming but nothing that the film
did worked for me at all. The female characters in the film were very
one note and even Mann's character was written badly as if no women had
any input into the female characters. The film did not seem believable
to me because this couple just did not belong together which made me
hate this film even more then some of Apatow's produced efforts which
are so much better then his directed/written films.MOVIE GRADE: F- (MVP: Paul Rudd)
