1
Just plain awful

If I had to summarize the review of this film into just two words,
those words would have to be, "Gawd Awful" or "Pure Stupidity"; both
statements equally and eloquently captivate the essence of unbelievable
stench that this film exudes. Written and Directed by Andres
Muschiette, it's actually quite comical to count how many times both he
as his wife Barbara's names appear on the screen during the film's
opening credits. Rated PG13, this film is further justification as to
why you should not bother seeing horror movies geared toward younger
tween audiences.The film centers around two sisters, Victoria and Lilly. After their
father shoots and kills his business partner and their mother, he flees
the scene of the crime with the two siblings in tow. High speeds and
icy roads lead to an auto accident in the middle of nowhere. This
motley crew is able to find shelter in an abandon house in the middle
of the woods; however, with no food or water, Jeffrey decides to shoot
the siblings. Before Jeffrey can pull the trigger of his gun, an entity
(Mama) sweeps into the house and whisks Jeffrey away to oblivion. In the five years that follow, Jeffrey's brother Lucas is still seeking
closure to the events which occurred has hired trackers to comb the
surrounding woods in hopes of finding his lost brother and nieces. The
trackers stumble upon the abandon cabin, where the two sisters (more
animal than human) still reside. The authorities are notified, and
after a lengthy child custody hearing the two siblings are placed with
their Uncle Lucas, with visitation rights granted to his sister-in-law
Jean, and child counseling sessions arranged with Dr. Dreyfuss. As you
may assume with a film of this nature, the Mama entity is not eager to
lose her two adopted children, and thus follows them to their new
dwelling. Also the Mama entity is just a tad bit jealous, so in an act
of rage she inadvertently throws Uncle Lucas down a flight of stairs
putting him into a coma This action brings us to Lucas' wife, Annabel,
played by Jessica Chastain. Receiving incredible accolades for her role
in 'Zero Dark Thirty', I can only imagine the horrors that must have
been racing through her mind when she heard the studio decided to move
up the release timeline for this film to capitalize on all her new
found fame.Anyways, to make a long story short, it seems the Mama entity is
destine to remain on Earth until it can right its wrong. In this
particular instance, she is trying to find her lost baby. Forced to
jump off a cliff with her child in her arms when she was alive, she was
separated from her baby in the fall. If the movie would have followed
the rules that it established, then the film may not have been better;
however, it would have at least made sense. In the films climatic
conclusion, where Mama entity and dead baby carcass are finally
reunited, the heavens should have opened up, and the two should have
ascended into eternal bliss but did this happen???? Oh no, that would
have made complete and utter sense to this completely ridiculous film.
Instead writer/director Muschietti decides that the Mama entity should
leap off the cliff with her new improved living daughters.This is definitely one of those films in which you have to ask
yourself, "Well, what happened the following day?" In the span of
twenty-four hours, Dr. Dreyfuss, sister-in-law Jean, and youngest
sibling Lilly are all dead, only Lucas, Annabel, and Victoria know what
happened and that a vengeful ghost was the culprit. So as they are
explaining all this to the police, do you think that they would get
prison or psycho-ward?This is truly a horrendous film and a total waste of Hollywood
resources. To even associate Guillermo del Toro's (Pan's Labyrinth)
name to this project is insulting and misleading. I cannot recommend
seeing this film. You would be best serviced to avoid seeing this film.See more of my reviews on FB @ "The Faris Reel"
