7
Cults de Chuckies

Nice to see the series' second reboot cult up the previous attempts.While I am a Chucky fan to the end, there are less great ones than even
good ones. I'm stuck in which is my favorite: Bride of Chucky or the
original and incredible Child's Play. What horror fan could deny Andy
and Chucky's first experience wasn't masterful? But, to me, the oh-so-
meta, Bride, made my heart soar for the series again with good kills,
great laughs and the wonderful addition of Jennifer Tilly. So, while the Child and the Bride duke it out for the top spot, Cult of
Chucky is certainly my 2nd or 3rd favorite of the seven films.** - Cult is 2nd best if #1 and #4 are a tie.While I appreciated sixth entry, Curse of Chucky, as trying to get away
from the humor of #4 and #5 and get the series back on a horror track,
it was rather dull for me. It wasn't terrible, but it was just "eh."
(Still, better than numbers 2, 3 and 5.)Cult is a direct sequel to Curse and ties in the entire series with the
exception of Glen/Glenda that even Chucky wants to forget. So, before
seeing this, you definitely need to see the so-so Curse. Actually, it's
not wrong to see them all, but in all honesty, you really only need to
see 1, 4, 6 and 7…and I wouldn't even recommend 6 if this wasn't so
tied to it.Spoiler (for 6): Chucky's real-life daughter in and out of the movie
(more meta?) reprises her sentenced role for having to take the rap of
Chucky's murders in #6. She's in a mental ward with Dr. Not-Dr.
McDreamy when several Good Guy Dolls show up and it's on. You know the
rest, but now Chucky has friends. Sorta.Oh. And sorry Jack, Andy's Back! #Coolbeans!While there are enormous plot holes (just ask yourself where Perez
Hilton got those screengrabs?) and it's kind of incoherent with
motivations, lack of police procedures and poor edits at times –
probably too much editing as important plot points went unanswered, it
was still a ton of fun. And despite the lack of kills for the first
half, when the blood hits the fan, it's probably the most gruesome of
the franchise.Totally recommended and it's nice to see the whole gang back, I mean,
sorry, Glen/Glenda. But, we are all glad you're gone.***Final thoughts: #1 It was great to meet both Brad "Chucky's Voice"
Dourif and Alex "Andy" Vincent at a horror convention a couple of years
ago. I had heard he came out of the closet and that was awesome ~
especially since he's gorgeous. He did seem to think I was stalking him
as I happened to bump into him a few times in and outside the
convention and he kept giving me dirty looks… #2 Wow, I had a thing for
Jennifer Tilly, a girl-crush, if you will. Boy, she has let herself go
a bit, unfortunately. But, she still looks very good and always love
her voice!
