1
Terrible Script, Terrible Effects, Utterly Boring

The film is in all ways worse than literally every Alien film that has
come before it and I actually include the god-awful Aliens vs Predator
films because at least they didn't over- promise and under-deliver so
grotesquely. This film is filled with deus ex machina, clichés, bad
techno babble, worse dialogue, and overused tropes. It is not only bad,
it is laughably bad. There are extensive spoilers in this review,
nevertheless I urge you to read on so that I can save you from this
piece of absolute garbage.The nonsense begins pretty much in the first minutes of the film. A
disaster befalls the colony ship Covenant, which has stopped in deep
space to unfurl its sails to recharge for some reason. I guess the ship
runs on solar power or something because the people writing the script
figure that's how it'll work in the future, and didn't bother checking
with a technical consultant. So this disaster —a giant neutrino burst
caused by a nearby star farting or something— damages the ship's solar
sails, and causes fires to break out all over and steam vents to start
spraying steam, and most notably killing the ship's captain James
Franco whom I imagine had a larger part but saw where this mess of a
script was going and cut fence along with Noomi Rapace who really only
appears in likeness, but I digress.So the flight crew of 15 (the rest of the ship's population of
colonists are kept in hanging freezers that just kind of swing around
like they're on coat hangers) has to fix the sails. Whilst Danny
McBride is outside the ship doing this his helmet intercepts a cryptic
signal of some one singing a —I'm not even kidding— John Denver song.
Apparently only Danny McBride's helmet could pick this up because the
ship has "communication buffers" that block out communication attempts
I guess because that's how the communication systems aboard solar
powered space ships of the future will work. The replacement captain who no one trusts because he is "a person of
faith" decides to take the ship off course to investigate the source of
the transmission because it is coming from a planet that is awesome,
way closer than their original destination that is still 7 years away,
and yet that they somehow missed when selecting a planet to colonize.
Of course it turns out the planet they find is the planet that Noomi
Rapace and Michael Fassbender from the previous movie ended up on. This is deus ex machina at its absolute worst. The odds of a ship in
the vastness of space, just happening to run out of gas and getting a
flat tire in front of Planet Bates Motel completely undermines the rest
of the film, which even without this silly contrivance would have been
terrible. The colonists organize a landing party with their only shuttle, because
of course they do. They find an eerily dead world because of course
they do. Some of their number get sick on spores and end up birthing
some monsters because of course they do. Things get particularly bad
once David makes his appearance. Yes David has survived since the events of Prometheus, his hair has
grown out because I guess Weyland Corp makes androids that need hair
cuts. Some more nonsense happens — I'm not going to go into it in
detail because it is just so hackneyed and predictable. Suffice it to
say more people die. And then the first huge twist of this pathetic
film: David invented eggs and face huggers. That's right. David the
android, still doing his best Peter O'Toole impression, stranded on a
dead engineer world inhabited by monsters, decided that with all of
this time on his hands he may as well invent the alien menace because
he was mad about, I don't know, something, and wants to take it out on
humanity by inventing a penis-headed monster. Maybe because he was made
without a penis, I'm not really sure, they don't cover it. It is never
adequately explained how he even does this or what tools he uses, or
even how he knows how to do this in the first place.We stumble across the preserved and vivisected corpse of Noomi Rapace
that David has kept for some reason ala Bates Motel, as well as an art
studio filled with of creepy poster sketches David made of her — I
guess this planet had a Hobby Lobby. What ensues is a bad, nonsensical,
utterly devoid of suspense or tension, chase sequence with terrible
creature effects. I won't bother to tell you how it ends, it's just as
stupid and predictable as the rest of the film.To make matters worse, one of the script writers who churned out this
turd also wrote the script for the upcoming Bladerunner sequel for
which I now have absolutely zero hope. I don't know what is wrong with
Ridley Scott. He keeps working with absolutely terrible scripts. Does
he read this garbage beforehand? Does he show up on day one of shooting
and just say "to hell with it, let's get this crap in the can"? Maybe
he is just taking these projects on in order to set up trust funds for
his kids — I don't know where the budget for this film went, it looked
like it could have been filmed for less than a quarter of what went
into it. Skip this film. And just to be safe skip any other films that
happen to follow it. Nuke the whole god damn mess of a franchise from
orbit. I can only hope this is the final nail in the coffin of this
series I once loved.0 Stars
