2
Should be Titled  "13"

So what happened? 1. The first problem with this film is the script. The writer Tony
Kushner is a Pulitzer winning theater writer, but other than "Munich"
he hasn't done any motion pictures. The long drawn out dialogue between
Lincoln's cabinet and the lengthy parliamentary congress sessions might
play well on Broadway, but they linger on screen. It wasn't just
Kushner's fault. Spielberg is one of the few directors who has final
cut on anything he does, so ultimately it's yet another vast
mis-judgment by the best known director and one of the wealthiest
filmmakers in the world. He's currently slated to direct Indiana Jones
5, so I guess that tells you where his judgment is. We're all waiting
patiently for him to retire with some dignity, but he's just Brett
Favre'n it all the way. It was a huge mistake for Dreamworks when deciding on the story, not to
include Lincoln's childhood, his struggle with schooling, the severe
poverty he faced growing up on the western frontier, and how he had to
teach himself how to be a lawyer, family roots, his political career,
and ultimately, his assassination. It's very clear from the beginning,
that this film is not about Lincoln's life, but a very specific part of
his presidency,(The Emancipation Proclamation). 90 minutes of this 150 minute film was spent on the 13th Amendment. So
much so, that every single member of congress when voting, had their
own screen time to voice that vote. It should have been called,
"Emancipation" or "ep13", but not "Lincoln." Do not go into this movie
expecting to learn about Abraham Lincoln's life. You will be hugely
disappointed.2. There was no sense of space. No aerial shots of Washington DC in the
1860s... no city shots showing how life was back then... just interior
scenes, a few battlefield scenes, and a few outdoor speeches. And this
coming from one of the greatest special effects pioneers of the medium-
lame.3. No secret service. The Secret Service was created by President
Lincoln on April 14, 1865, the day of his assassination. Don't you
think that would be an interesting thing to showcase in a movie titled
"Lincoln?" One third of the US currency in circulation was counterfeit
at the time. There was no mention of it. And also, at no point did you
see ANY security around the president except for a few soldiers around
him in wide shots. It just made it seem even more like a filmmaker
trying to tell his own pretentious tale of history instead of what
really happened.4. To much cabinet delegation and congress discussion; not enough
"Lincoln." Sure, the film made an attempt to show his affection for his
son Todd, and you did see some private moments with his wife Mary, but
it was all put there in a disingenuous way because the story wasn't
about his family. It was hammering the 13th Amendment down our throats
the whole film. Did the NAACP make this film? Lol. 5. The cast was too big. There's over 120 speaking roles in this film.
120! That's insane. Daniel Day Lewis was dazzling- his eyes just
penetrated you, as usual. He projected the essence of Lincoln (at least
from what legend suggests) through an indirect manner that can only be
witnessed to understand. He will get the Oscar nomination for this, no
question. My prediction- he will win the best actor Academy Award.
Everyone else was very good, a few were great- Holbrook and Stratharin
especially. Sally Field was good, but not great- and Tommy Lee was his
old self- always brilliant, but never stretching beyond his usual.6. The ending. Instead of showing the horror of what happened the night
of April 14, 1865, Spielberg decided to leave out the Ford Theater
altogether and instead show another theater during another play, in
which a man comes on stage and makes an announcement that Lincoln was
shot. Then Lincoln's youngest son Todd, who happens to be attending
this "other" play, looses it. And that's it. Not only do you have to
sit through 2.5 hours of boring film, but there is no pay off at the
end (because we KNEW this ending was coming). To show it like they did
was almost as tragic as the event itself. I'm not saying show the
bullet rip through his skull, but show us the event as it unfolded-
don't deny the audience of that emotion.I understand not wanting to glorify Booth. I get that. But this is
history now. It happened almost 150 years ago. And Spielberg didn't
think twice to show civil war soldiers being brutally murdered in the
beginning of the film, why not show the murder at the end and
DE-mystify it for all of us? And if his argument is that this film
isn't about that, then why even show that part of his presidency at
all??? Why not end the film with Lincoln still living... insinuating
that his efforts and spirit still live on? This Jewish filmmaker can
make a film about Oscar Schindler and show atrocities of monumental
proportion... he can make a film called Saving Private Ryan and re
define brutality, but he can't show the death of our most beloved
President from Lincoln's perspective? - there may not have even been a
holocaust if Lincoln had survived. So Steven, please don't give me the
"we can't show that" line because you showed it a hundred times in
Schindler's list and you won an Oscar for it.It saddens me a great deal to write this review. I never would have
dreamed that I would be giving Steven Spielberg's "Lincoln" a 2 out of
10. My advice: Watch this film for a clinic on acting and
cinematography- but wait for it on video. I might buy the DVD as a cure
for insomnia.
