10
An intense emotional roller coaster film about the firefighters that battled the Yarnell Fire.

Only the Brave is a great emotionally driven drama film about the
Granite Mountain Hotshots firefighting crew that battled the Yarnell
Hill fire. Well, the film is great. Director Joseph Kosinski did a
great job in keeping up the pace from the intense fire battle
sequences. Joseph Kosinski tackled the big budget visual effects flicks
like Tron Legacy and Oblivion. Seeing him take on a smaller budget
drama film was well handled. The film follows Eric (Josh Brolin) who is trying to get a crew of
firefighters together. He convinces the town mayor to help get them
evaluated. He recruits a young pothead Donut (Miles Teller), who gets
high all day and finds out his ex girlfriend is pregnant. Then, there
is Eric's former crew of Jesse (James Badge Dale) and Chris (Taylor
Kitsch). Donut is trying to take responsibility and wants to better
himself by supporting his girlfriend by giving her baby supplies with
the money he makes. Meanwhile, Eric's wife Amanda (Jennifer Connelly)
has been struggling with their marriage, as she wants a family. But
Eric is too focused on his fire crew and away all the time battling
fires. But the event that will test them is when a wildfire in Yarnell
storms out of control. It is a great film. Yes, if you know the story you will know how it
will end. But the build up with every character that are so distinct
from each other. Seeing them bond and form a family friendship is what
hits really hard with the film. You see rivals form a brotherhood
friendship. Characters making a life changing decisions to better
themselves. The character development is well done in the film. The
plot is one of those inspirational stories of seeing these heroic
firefighters crew battling through hell with these wildfires. They are
like the brute force that goes in with only certain amount of gear with
their chainsaws, digging tools, and their safety gear. It has a huge cast ensemble. I am sure, there are familiar faces with
the fire crew and some that wont have enough screen time. Josh Brolin,
Miles Teller, James Badge Dale, Taylor Kitsch, and Jennifer Connelly
all did great. The director managed to keep the intensity on the fire sequences. When
the climax arrives. The ending does become a little emotionally
difficult to watch. But it does pay a great tribute to the hardworking
firefighters that battled the Yarnell fire and all the firefighters
around the world. Overall, Only the Brave is a great drama action film. The cast ensemble
was great. The plot and characters were great and inspirational. It was
never slow or boring. The direction was great as it captured the
intensity of these fire crew battling with the wildfires.I rate the film 5 out of 5 stars. I definitely recommend seeing the
film on the big screen.
