1
A movie that shoots itself

I have never been a fan of Quentin Tarantino, but I know that other
people think he's great so I decided to give him another chance and
actually paid $3 to see "Django Unchained." I was surprised to find
that I liked the first part of the movie. It was interesting, funny,
suspenseful, and actually seemed to have a point. Some of the story
strained credulity (look it up), but it stayed within the bounds of
believability... until the German bounty hunter shot DeCaprio. Then
believability went out the window.The movie didn't even make sense within itself. The entire film built
up Dr. Schultz as not only a great shot, but also an extremely cunning
strategist. And yet, he shot DeCaprio and then just stupidly said, "I
couldn't help it!" and stood there waiting to be killed. (Which he
was.) But his derringer had two barrels, which presumably means two
bullets, so why didn't he whirl around and shoot the guy who was
standing there with a gun?He could have, but then there wouldn't have been the bloodbath that
follows, which I guess is Quentin Tarantino's "signature." The movie
quickly degenerates into a stupid, pointless bloodbath. White guys come
out of nowhere to be shot, blood gets spattered everywhere, and so
what?Then the film gets even worse! The black guy who killed so many white
people is in the hands of his oppressors, yet instead of torturing and
killing him, they decide to send him off to a (allegedly horrible)
mine, thus giving him the opportunity to escape and wreak his horrible
vengeance. Does this seem believable to ANYONE? After that, it's completely predictable. I don't need to tell you what
happens because you can figure it out for yourself. But think about
this: the movie makes a big deal about how nobody in the South back
then was used to seeing a black person on a horse. For most of the
film, the white Dr. Schultz accompanied Django and helped smooth the
way. But at the end of the movie, Django and his (black) wife ride away
on horses -- in Mississippi before the Civil War! So they'll just
wander through the South to freedom? Really?? What a great happy
ending! I could criticize this piece of sh*t on many more levels, but
I've wasted enough time on it.I actually liked the first 3/4 of this film. I absolutely HATED the
last section. And ultimately, Quentin Tarantino's popularity says
something troubling about the state of American culture.
