8
Johnny is a joker....

So going to see Birdman the night after it's just won the Oscar for
best movie has to be a bit of a gamble hasn't it? After all, there's
nothing that Hollywood likes more than something that sucks up the
juices and shows it how it really is. And we all must know already that
Birdman was the reason why our hero had been famous previously and is
now trying to capture something of that lost fame and glory right? Well
yes, as far as it goes, that may be true. Yet despite my slight
trepidation at what was to come, I have to say that I was very
pleasantly surprised this evening and walked away feeling quite
content.This tale takes you centre stage to a quite wonderful turn from our
slightly saggy, slightly down at heel Micheal Keaton as the eponymous
hero, aka Riggan. We are given to understand from the off that the star
turn may be experiencing some kind of psychotic episode, although this
is never really confirmed either. Hey, after all, this is the movies
isn't it? Except that it isn't, it's the thrill of the greasepaint and
the creaking of the boards. And that's what scares him. Why's he doing
this? It's not at all apparent that he even knows. Except that he's put
everything on the line for a Raymond Carver play.His ally Jake is impeccably played by Zach Galifianakis, with a quite
beautiful mixture of encouragement and fear. Emma Stone does the moody
daughter to a tee, sparky when required and distant for the majority.
And Andrea Riseborough as the pregnant (or not) passionate partner
outdoes herself in my opinion, really solid in her screen time,
probably slightly overshadowing Naomi Watts into the process. As for
Edward Norton, he nails it as the method man whose priapic ways on
stage are in stark contrast to his troubles off. Our Lindsay Duncan
does a great star turn as an embittered critic with unwieldy power.If you've heard about the continuous shot style, then enjoy it, as it
adds a layer to the movie, both stylistically and chronologically, that
impressed me greatly. We're mainly stuck inside the twisting confines
of the theatre and at times one can feel lost as to precisely where we
are. Which probably isn't something that's happening by default, but
rather by design. The script is excellent, many laughs to be had, and
some real scenes of tenderness too, which is quite a trick to pull off
I feel. The plot shifts along effortlessly, never feeling like you're
watching a two-hour production. And the score is to die for, it almost
felt like Whiplash Redux.Worth the Oscar? Who cares, all I want to know is, did he fly?
