8
"Captain America: Civil War" Pits Two of MCU's Biggest Heroes in One Epic Confrontation

The Marvel universe gets tenser with the most-awaited "Civil War". For
what fans clamor to be a storyline that the MCU is building towards,
here comes a showdown of Marvel's biggest properties."Captain America 3" starts off where "Avengers: Age of Ultron" ended,
when the New Avengers, led by Steve Rogers/Captain America (Chris
Evans), are cornered by international concern in response to continuous
collateral damage. As a result, a governing act is proposed to the
Avengers, fracturing the team to two sides, one led by Rogers and
another led by Tony Stark/Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr.). But when a new
threat is on the horizon, the team has to face the repercussions of
their brawls.It is a huge help that the Russo Brothers returned to hold the weights
of Marvel's Phase Three, after their spontaneous effort in "The Winter
Soldier". Though "Civil War" may not be as solid as its predecessor, it
is still a worthy addition to the Avengers storyline and Captain
America's saga. Yet, it excels for taking a mature route that brings a
compelling character study, a token from the first Avengers movie. Out
of such character study is the major theme of vengeance. I am not going
to give any more details about it. It is best to be seen and be
enamored by how such themes are delivered with an affecting yet
entertaining vibe.Kudos to the cast ensemble that all brought their A-game, even though
some characters are not that fleshed out, or feeling shoehorned. Evans
is at his most moving as the fading patriot who wishes the best for his
team and loved ones. Downey Jr. is still what we expected from RDJ.
Scarlett Johansson as Black Widow has a neutral but affectionate
presence, despite her rather little involvement. The rest of the cast
is great to see, with notable breakout performances from Paul Rudd as
Scott Lang/Ant-Man/Giant-Man, Chadwick Boseman as T'Challa/Black
Panther and Tom Holland as Spider-Man/Peter Parker. And Daniel Bruhl as
Helmut Zemo is a better addition to Marvel's lacking lineup of
antagonists. But despite the cast's collective efforts, there is an
obvious battle for screen time with all characters. Thankfully, it was
all salvaged as the two parties brawl in a cleared airport, in an
exhilarating action sequence that will surely make every audience
member cheer.For all the makings of a summer blockbuster, "Captain America: Civil
War" gets it all started right. Besides being a loyal companion to the
comic book storyline, it is a worthy setup to Marvel's other properties
and one that truly can hold on its own, courtesy of its consistent
superhero action scenes, the Russo brothers' tense direction, the
excellent cast, its thought-provoking themes and its exciting story
with its signature Marvel snappy dialogue. Let us hope for the best for
MCU's future, including Tom Holland's "Spider-Man".
