5
A Clash Of Too Many Tones

I'm all for unique and different when it comes to filmmaking, but when
a unique film doesn't do anything to intrigue its audience, aside from
a consistent tone and setting, then it's not really all that impressive
in the end. Suburbicon is George Clooney's latest attempt at direction,
and I feel pretty much the same about this film as I did about many of
his other works. A tone, story, and time period is all set up, but the
way each of his films play out have seemed to leave a lot to be desired
in my opinion. That is once again the case with Suburbicon, being a
little too confident in itself when it came to presenting a powerful
story. Here is why I think you could probably skip this one in
theatres, but the effort put into it may warrant a rental if you're
looking for something new to watch. Gardner's family is tested when a group of men invade his home, killing
his wife and leaving only his son and sister-in-law alive. Falling for
his wife's sister and becoming a complete psychotic and uncontrollable
man, this film quickly spirals out of control into a farce of random
occurrences. Throughout the first act of this film, it seems like it's
going to be a satire that won't hold anything back in terms of
wackiness, but that's very quickly thrown out the window, compensating
with many subplots of murder and conspiracy. I found myself taken out
of the film when the tone would shift this often, making for a very
off-putting viewing experience. Throughout the majority of this film, you're asked to accept the
horrible things that the main characters are doing, or just connect
with Gardner's young boy on an emotional level, but he's not quite
present enough in my opinion. Not until the third act do you really fin
yourself caring about some of the characters, which was too late for
me. This movie tries far too hard to be clever, funny, and surprising,
that it just comes off as forced more often than not. You will find
yourself along for a ride of random events and you won't really know
who to root for. I may seem to be ripping this film apart for being un even, but for
throughout all its flaws, there are actually quite a few great aspects,
especially the sequence involving an appearance by Oscar Isaac. There
is a lengthy scene when secrets are revealed and characters begin to
evolve and Oscar Isaac elevated every moment of this portion of the
film. Up until that point, there really weren't any characters to grasp
onto, but the environment around them, along with the sets and the
score, always helped to make the film feel more authentic than what its
screenplay was presenting. This may sound confusing, but that's due to
the fact that this is a very confusing watch, and I feel that many
people will agree with me on that account. From being written by Joel and Ethan Coen (who's recent track record
hasn't really impressed me recently), to being competently directed by
George Clooney, to having racial undertones to help give the film
depth, to showcasing some great moments of comedy, Suburbicon just
feels like a huge missed opportunity, due to the talent involved. Matt
Damon and Julianne Moore deliver solid performances here and the score
by Alexandre Desplat is definitely what sucked me into this movie, even
throughout the moments that annoyed me. In the end, I feel as though
the positives slightly outweigh the negatives, so I can generously give
it a pass. This is about as average as you can get in terms of having a
clever setting and premise, only to never fully deliver on either
front. Suburbicon isn't quite worth seeing in theatres, but it may
please hardcore fans of the Coen brother's past work.
