1
*** SPOILERS*** A dreary, morose Close Encounters

The aliens have arrived. And they are – Holy Calamari People, Batman!
– giant squid. The giant squid communicate in writing by shooting
magical retractable ink out of their tentacles onto a transparent wall.
It's up to linguist Amy Adams to decipher their communication before
the other crazy countries in the world try to blow up everything.The Calamari People, who float in a room of steam, write in circles
– which is apparently how they experience time. Without a beginning or
end. They can see their lives in their entirety. And the Calamari
People are here to give humanity a gift, we find out: Once you unlock
their language and become fluent, you will experience time in the
circular way they do. It's a lot like becoming fluent in French and
suddenly realizing why the French love Jerry Lewis so much.From the lack of character and character development to the way the
story unfolds, the movie is like watching a real-time long shot of a
grave digger digging a grave on the grayest of all days. It's morose
and filled with dread. Monotone and monotonous. Shovel after shovel
after shovel, and he never seems like he is getting anywhere.The entire pic is filled with "music" that is just a bunch of low hums
that underscore the dread and monotone. It doesn't give us a clue to
how we should be feeling. And that's why I go to the movies, to feel.
How about awe at seeing the spaceships? The joy and celebration of the
first breakthrough of communication? Nope, we get tedium and low bassy
hums.Jeremy Renner plays a physicist who doesn't do any physics, and he
nicknames the two Calamari People we see Abbott & Costello. Although
you can't tell them apart, Abbott becomes my favorite character in the
movie because he gets to die midway through and doesn't have to suffer
through the rest of the film. Lucky Abbott. Throw in voiceovers and flashbacks that we find out are really
flashforwards because time is actually circular to Amy Adams, and you
have a film that yearns to be so much more than the real-time
gravedigging than it is. It's the type of intellectual pretentiousness
I thought only the Nolans could put on the screen.
