8
Positive evocation of Dracula and other period Hammer films

Creepy and off-putting, The Woman in Black really is a terrific
thriller. It's intended to shock, and in many scenes it is successful.
It's a moody, psychologically scarring throwback to the old Roger
Corman movies based on Edgar Allan Poe stories, with an amazing adult
performance by Daniel Radcliffe as a young lawyer out of his depth. Arthur Kipps (Radcliffe), a down-on-his-luck attorney, is asked to
travel to a remote village and find out if a recently deceased woman
has left any heretofore unknown wills. It's Kipps' last shot at
success, his employer sternly warns him. His journey to the village is
eerily similar to that undertaken by Jonathan Harker in Bram Stoker's
Dracula. Something's not quite right with the town, which clearly
doesn't want him around, something to do with children being murdered
and people blaming a dead woman. You know how it is.Kipps' sleuthing leads to more and more questions. Who was the woman
(ostensibly, his client), really? What relationship did she have with
the town? And what of those treacherous marshes, and that long and
winding road to the main house that is impassable when the tide is in?
Why is it that every time Kipps turns around, a shadow darts away?
Understanding that these are all staples of the great horror movies of
yore doesn't mean that this film is stealing; it is merely
authentically replicating the desolate atmosphere, in which a whisper
can signal death.I entered the theater knowing very little of the movie's content. Was
it to be a mystery, and we'd find out who the titular woman was at some
point? It is, and we do, but that is only part of the puzzle. The best
horror movies, in my opinion, are the ones that build just the right
amount of suspense and then pull the rug out from under the viewer. A
slow buildup must have a satisfying payoff. Showing the evil the lurks
in every other scene dilutes the fright quotient. This movie doesn't do
that. It pulls no punches to our psyche. It is so closely shot by Tim Maurice-Jones, who's best known for his
work with Guy Ritchie. Maurice-Jones' style here is to capture almost
every shot from Kipps' perspective, thus bringing the audience that
much closer to the terror he's supposed to be feeling. Radcliffe, to
his credit, never comes off as some innocent lad who's just starting
out in the business, and although Kipps is perplexed - much like Edward
Woodward's character in The Wicker Man - he is determined to see things
through, even though he has strayed a bit from his original mission. Something is definitely wrong here, and it involves the children. Are
they to blame for the nefarious goings-on? Are their parents? No one is
saying anything. To make matters worse for Kipps, he has a young son of
his own, whose mother died in childbirth and who is coming to visit
Kipps in a few days. The grief felt by the parents of the fallen
children only heightens Kipps' own fears. There are several moments that, on the Internet, would be called shock
videos. Everything seems normal, and then BAM, something pops out of
nowhere. In lesser movies, this might be seen as a crutch, a way to
stun your senses to get a particular reaction, but here it all fits in,
and it conveys mortal terror. The Woman in Black's identity is revealed
very early in the film, so the mystery isn't who she is but why these
events keep occurring. Is it all superstition, or is there something
more to the spiritual aspect of the plot?The ending is tidy and satisfying, but it is by no means conventional
or predictable. In fact, it opens up even more questions. But more
importantly, director James Watkins and screenwriter Jane Goldman
(based on a book by Susan Hill) do not take the easy way out. People do
not necessarily live happily ever after. Story threads are not
necessarily sewn up tight. It is a riveting film steeped in a macabre
atmosphere teeming with the potential of death with every slow approach
to a corner or a locked door.
