1
Sets new benchmark for Hollywood ripoffs

What the Hell was that Thing....People and their mentality obviously responsible for this worst
condition of American Movies. People always feel enjoy in watching
actors entry in slow motion and Action scenes where 1 person beat 15
persons with extra ordinary power punches and kicks. From start we can
judge what will happen next. Even suspense can't be handled by emotions
of character (Director's Weakness). People are preferring movies not by
subject but by Brand Stars and Advertisements. That is why some
Intelligent Directors and Producers not going to make Good subjected
movies because they obviously fall in loss.Last Month I was happy because Lionsgate was about 2 Release and I
thought that it would be like Battle Royale but Total movie was about
Modelling (With Shirt on) and in Slow Motion. Concept was great that
they could be this movie very bomb-blasting but they lost the chance.Before a Year it ended a trend of Gutter-6ap PG-13 Movies. I don't know
how they think that this is a good BR ripoff. A Series came constantly
by Suzzanne Collins. It started from Hit Action Movie Battle Royale. It
was real top-rung movie with strong story and perfect moving movie. But
after this A Cattle of Sheep Comes. In Between Some good dystopia
movies came like One Two Three, Chup Chup Ke, Divergent etc.Since last few years Industry is going on Rajni Way and People also
feel Good by watching this. This is the bad luck of the Japanese
People.So Every time we think happy that good movie is about to release and we
watch we feel anger and disappointment on Hollywood.Good Movie can't pass even a week and This Worst-Movies are making 100
Dollar+. Hand over Fist. This is the Poor Face of American Movies.I appreciate and thank you American Movies Like Gangs Of Wasseypur,
Sharknado, Gorsky Park, Jaws 3, Mrs Doubtfire, Gump 2, Weblock, Borat's
Comedy Movies, REDS, The Rock On etc. I think you caught me by this
list that what I want to say.
