2
Liberal Mind Control: Condescending

Spoilers Ahead:First, you can check the truth of my statements by simply re-watching
many of Clinton's old State Of The Union speeches in which he declared
'a right of every American to own a house.' Every speech trumpeted the
burgeoning numbers of poor home ownership. Yes, as other good reviewers
have already told you, 'The Community Reinvestment Act' was the engine
of destruction. The pressure the federal government put on the banks to
meet their quotas so the democrats could trumpet their ballooning
numbers was conveniently left out of the movie. See, when Carell gives
that 'they will just get bailed out and everyone will blame the poor',
the candle is knocked over for you. This was the ideological center of
the movie. Also, Pitt's every percentage of unemployment equals 40,000
dead was another hint of the parallax view of the movie. Yes, some
great acting performances, but a one sided liberal view of the housing
bubble. Granted, the banks ran with the CDO's but what / whom initiated
the whole process? Why is there no mention of the dubious assertion
that everyone 'has a God given right to own a house' as we heard slick
Willie tell us? The wonderful synthesis of our insane oligarchs is
echoed in both parties secretly loving open borders: they drive down
wages, destroy unions and make the country globally competitive with
slave labor nations: ergo, the Republican oligarchs adore open borders.
Yet the democratic oligarchs love the voting block of new dependents
they are creating for themselves. Rule number one: never trust
oligarchs of any ideology. Their core congruence they carefully
conceal: more money and power for us. Their gifts for you come with a
heavy price: your freedom and independence from their control. The democrats love the votes they bring in by promising free college to
a bankrupt nation that owes China 19 trillion dollars. The movie is a
reflection of a liberal mindset that the wealthy are demons and the
poor are saints from Heaven. Sadly, many took NINJA mortgages that they
well knew they could never repay. I, like many of you, have rented;
where on earth is it written we all have a right to own a house? Or
Free College? Yes, the bankers were unethical but who initiated the
process in a disgusting attempt to cement a voting block? Who put
pressure on banks to meet quotas so liberal politicians could trumpet
their 'bringing every poor family a home?' Look, the movie, while well
acted, presents you with a one sided liberal mind control view of the
etiology of the housing bubble. I encourage readers to go read the
Community Reinvestment Act. Play some of Clinton's old State Of The
Union speeches where he brags about the poor people's rising home
ownership rates. The easiest way to review it for you is that it is a
financial China Syndrome. The agenda is there right away: Satanic
bankers and 'blame it on the poor people.' No, I don't, I do blame
liberals who would promise their mothers as housemaids if they thought
it would secure them votes for their party's dominance. Oligarchs have
no party, whether they have a D or an R in front of their names. I know
they are lying because their lips are moving. As another election charade begins and we hear the same lies from both
parties, it is important to remember that it was a liberal
administration's need to secure a voting block that unleashed the
housing bubble that did the horrible damage you see depicted here. The
absence of who started it, the pressure put on banks to meet liberal
poor home ownership quotas are conveniently missing. Yes, it is
reminiscent of Empire Of The Sun, well acted, well written and a
complete falsification of the financial history of the etiology of the
housing collapse. I enjoyed the movie, but it was the usual Hollywood
liberal mind control. Keep a short leash on your public servants, my
friends. Deus Vobiscum. Q.E.D. "He Who Controls The Past Controls The Future." George Orwell"Politicians And Diapers Must Be Changed Often And For The Same
Reason.""We Have The Best Government Money Can Buy." Mark Twain
