9
Sets a new high-water mark for the franchise.

After the disappointing and directionless X3: The Last Stand and the 

abysmal X-Men Origins: Wolverine, prospects for the continuation of the 

franchise had gone from great to grim in just a few short years. 

Desperate to breathe life back into the series, 20th Century Fox turned 

to director Bryan Singer to help right the ship, and although Singer 

didn't return to the director's chair, he oversaw production of X-Men: 

First Class, an origin story centered on the friendship between Charles 

Xavier (James McAvoy) and Erik Lensherr (Michael Fassbender) in their 

early years.



A critical and commercial success, First Class set the stage for an 

expanded X-Men universe featuring younger versions of the mutant 

superheroes, but many fans still clamored for more adventures featuring 

the original cast. With Singer back at the helm, X-Men: Days of Future 

Past aims to balance precariously between the two, giving the original 

on screen mutants one last chance to shine, while simultaneously 

pushing the younger generation forward, and fixing a few glaring 

continuity errors along the way.



The film opens with a tremendous action sequence in the near future, 

where an army of mutant-hunting robots called Sentinels have driven the 

X-Men underground. This sequence of events was set into motion some 50 

years earlier, when Mystique (Jennifer Lawrence) assassinated Bolivar 

Trask, a military scientist and anti-mutant activist whose experimental 

Sentinel program would only be accelerated by his untimely demise.



With only a handful of their kind remaining, and their numbers 

dwindling seemingly by the second, the elder Xavier (Patrick Stewart) 

and Magneto (Ian McKellan) discover that Kitty Pryde (Ellen Page) has 

the ability to transport a person's consciousness into their younger 

self. It's a painful experience, one that Xavier is far too fragile to 

withstand, but thanks to his innate healing ability, Wolverine (Hugh 

Jackman) is the perfect candidate to be sent back to alter the events 

that led to the destruction of the mutant race.



Waking up in his 1973 body, Wolverine is tasked with tracking down and 

reuniting Xavier and Lensherr to stop the assassination of Trask. Easy 

enough, right? Unfortunately, Xavier has become a bitter, reclusive 

alcoholic, wasting away in his mansion with his only remaining friend, 

Hank McCoy (Nicholas Hoult), while Lensherr is incarcerated in the most 

secure building in the United States after being implicated in the 

death of President Kennedy. After all, as Xavier puts it, "who else 

could curve a bullet?"



Getting Lensherr out of trouble is a seemingly impossible task, but 

Wolverine knows a guy. That guy is the young Pietro Maximoff, better 

known as Quicksilver (Evan Peters), and his handful of scenes are some 

of the most entertaining moments in the film, particularly an escape 

sequence that conveys his super-speed abilities by shooting at 3000 

frames per second. There have been glimpses of this moment during the 

film's trailers, but the scene as a whole is staggeringly beautiful, 

and the character's bizarre sense of humor provides a sense of joy and 

playfulness that are noticeably absent from the rest of the film.



That's not to say X-Men: Days of Future Past is not enjoyable - on the 

contrary, it's a thrilling experience from start to finish, with plenty 

of emotional resonance to go along with all the action and special 

effects. Jackman's performance is less growling menace and more wise 

mediator, adding yet another dimension to an already complex character. 

McAvoy and Fassbender still have remarkable chemistry, but the film 

truly belongs to Lawrence, whose ability to emote through layers of 

body paint and prosthetics makes Mystique more relatable than ever 

before.



While it's a shame that most of the original X-Men cast are relegated 

to cameos, those minor appearances tend to come during jaw-dropping 

action scenes. The futuristic battles between the Sentinels and the 

last remaining mutants are a joy to behold, with Iceman (Shawn Ashmore) 

finally using his abilities in ways that fans have always wanted to 

see, and newcomers like Blink (Fan Bingbing) and Bishop (Omar Sy) 

getting an opportunity to kick ass alongside the veterans.



There are also plenty of references to the previous X-Men films, as 

Days of Future Past attempts to bridge the gap between the original 

trilogy and the reboot. William Stryker (Josh Helman) is a looming 

presence throughout the film, with his work evoking images of the 

Weapon X program, and the final moments are full of fan service cameos 

that effectively close the book on the original characters. For the 

most part, it succeeds, and while there are still a few questions 

remaining, there's so much to love here that the minor details no 

longer feel relevant.



X-Men: Days of Future Past is a return to form for Singer, whose 

directorial efforts since the first two films have been rather poorly 

received. His emotional connection to the material and his love for the 

characters has never been more evident, and the X-Men have never been 

more compelling or entertaining. This latest installment proves there's 

still plenty of life left in the franchise, and we can't wait to see 

what comes next when the mutants return in 2016.



-- Brent Hankins
