10
Excellent to expose the stupidity of biblical literalists

I'm giving this film a 10, not because it's an excellent movie (it's a
good movie, though). I'm giving it a 10 for the courage of its makers
to deviate from the biblical narration, although it could have been an
even looser interpretation of the Exodus story, since it never happened
in reality.I'm at the same time amazed and amused by the many negative reviews
given by angry religious people who are mad at the film makers for not
sticking to the "historical facts". Are you kidding me? These people
read a story that for centuries was orally passed from generation to
generation, until it one day, some 2,500 years ago, i.e. many centuries
after the supposed events, got written down, and they call it
"historical facts"?!It's exactly how Lewis Black (a Jew) said in one of his performances:
"These people watch The Flintstones as if it were a documentary."If this story happened the way the Bible tells it, then biblical
literalists really are worshiping a sadistic tyrant, who kills innocent
people and even children. Is this what they want?Please think: You have 400 years of Hebrew presence in Egypt and about
2,000,000 people (600,000 men + their families + a number of non
Hebrews) walking for 40 years in the desert, and despite 200 years of
intense search absolutely nothing has ever been found that shows that
this biblical tale really took place. Zero, nada, niente! Even many
Jews don't believe in it anymore. In the 1970s archaeologists gave up
searching for evidences.So, why should a film about the Exodus stick to the "facts" when this
story is not based on facts? If religious people want historical facts, how about this one: the film
makers were very kind to religious people, stating that the Hebrews had
only one God ("they had not forgotten their God"). But according to the
Jewish Encyclopedia, fact is that the Hebrews were polytheists. Only
after Moses they became mostly monotheists, not completely. For
centuries they kept going back to their other gods. After the
Babylonian exile, the prophets compelled them to stick with Yahweh, who
before was just one of their many gods.And if you think Moses was a man of God, then open your Bible now and
read Numbers 31:13-18. That was Moses! And in Deuteronomy 13:6-10 God
himself commands the Israelites to kill their own families, if they
turn to other gods.If you believe in the Bible, this is the God you are following!Anyway, a good film, interesting and with very good CGI! Christian Bale
cool, as always.
