1
Not BvS, just BS

The clue was in the title all along and I just failed to see it.It's like the studio and creative minds behind this disaster were so
stoked with the idea of having Superman and Batman fight each other,
they couldn't have a coherent thought after to come up with any form of
a story. So they let Zack Snyder make a movie to satisfy the 10 year
old in him. Major spoilers ahead!I thought there were 3 very strong, compelling ideas from the trailers,
but the movie failed to delivery on them1. Batman's aggression towards Superman. 3/4th of this movie is
dedicated to this. In fact Batman wants to KILL Superman. And finally,
when the moment arrives, Batman stops because his mother's first name
is the same as Superman's mother's. And so they become the best of
friends. Just like that.2. People of earth's distrust of Superman, due to the events from the
first movie. This too runs through most of the movie, with Superman
trying to earn some brownie points by saving a few people. The fact
that there is a public hearing against him, indicates that people are
not buying it. But in the end, after his supposed death, why does he a
get a military/hero style funeral? Why is the country mourning? Did I
miss something? Especially since there is confusion on what happened
during the hearing.3. The public hearing: This should have been a really powerful scene.
If Superman were to concede, then he'd be answerable to the people and
he would not get to be the hero we know he is. The same, if he did not
concede. I was giddy with anticipation when this scene started and was
immensely disappointed when the Senator starts mumbling. Zack Snyder
took the path of least resistance.- - - - - -I guess after the writer's gave up on the main ideas, they didn't care
about smaller plot points- Superman has no remorse for the destruction he caused in the first
movie. In the big fight he smashes Batman through a building causing
the building to collapse. Ditto for Doomsday, smashes him in to a power
plant of some sort. He is not even thinking about anyone's safety.- Just like in the first movie, there is an apocalypse level
destruction. Superman himself contributes to some of it. Thousands are
probably killed, but superman only saves Lois Lane- Superman threatens Batman that he can easily kill Batman, twice.
Sounds like a bully to me- Batman STEALING from Lex Luthor so HE gets to exact revenge on
Superman- Batman uses guns, not to intimidate, but actually kill. He even
dreams of gun battles.- The govt. has Zod's body and the ship for 2 years. Luthor comes up
with the idea that since the ship has a bio-metric security, he can use
Zod's body to gain access. It did not cross anyone else's mind- One alien craft/tech is lying in the Indian Ocean for 2 years. No
nation/military has claimed it. Local fishermen are freely swimming to
it and breaking away pieces- The all powerful Kryptonian key has no security what so ever. Anyone
can use it. Even Lex Luthor. It only unlocks EVERYTHING, why should it
be secure?- Kryptonians have banned the technology to create Doomsday. It's so
dangerous, they decide not to remove it from the system but keep it,
with so minimum security that it can be enabled with a simple voice
command by a non-Kryptonian.- There is no compelling reason behind Lex Luthor's hatred towards
Superman. How does he stand to gain or lose?- There is no villain, purpose, motive or problem to solve in the
story. Doomsday appears so that Zack Snyder can once again have a
city-leveling battle.- Why is Doomsday angry with Superman? Since he is made from Zod &
Luthor's genes, does anger/hatred towards someone pass through genes?- When Batman steals the Kryptonite, it would have spoiled whatever
Luthor had planned, but Luthor just eggs Superman to fight Batman like
they were in cahoots. How does Luthor know what Batman has planned? How
does he know about the battle royale. Has he read the comic?- Why is Batman not suspicious of the other meta beings? Why does he
think they are friendly and will help? And against what? Why does he
think he will need their help? How come Luthor is in on this?- Why does Luthor have well designed logos for each meta human? - Why was wonder woman so concerned with being exposed? According to
the photo, she had already revealed herself, in FULL COSTUME. So why
the secrecy? And why come out of hiding when she sees lightening coming
from the dome? She did not feel the need when world was practically
getting destroyed in the first movie.- Why does Luthor introduce Bruce Wayne and Clark Kent to each other?
BW is a billionaire, but CK? Why would anyone care about him?- Superman stops the car chase. Literally allowing the bad guys to
escape. He may not like Batman's methods, but he couldn't figure out if
Batman's giving a chase, he's after bad guys?!- In the midst of deafening destruction Superman can hear Lois Lane.
But his mother...his hearing, speed, x-ray vision...he doesn't even
give it a shot. And of course Batman finds her in a jiffy because he
is...... the list goes on...but IMDb has a word limit...I can't believe such a high profile movie had no thought put behind it.
Amateur hour. A total disservice to a 75 year legacy and to the fans. I
hope the remaining DC movies are scrapped or they finally pulls their
socks up.
