10
Holland in the Golden Age

Tulip Fever (2017) was adapted from a novel by Deborah Moggach,
scripted by Tom Stoppard, and directed by Justin Chadwick.The film is set in Amsterdam between November 1636 and February 1637,
during the Tulipmania period of Dutch history. The price of tulip bulbs
skyrocketed for those few months, and then crashed precipitously.
Fortunes were made by speculators. Some became rich and stayed rich, if
they were insightful enough to quit while they were ahead. Others, who
stayed in the market, were ruined.The movie shows us five people involved--directly or indirectly--in the
Tulipmania. Alicia Vikander portrays Sophia Sandvoort. Sophia is a
young woman whose entire family was saved from poverty when she agreed
to marry an older merchant--Cornelis Sandvoort--portrayed brilliantly
by Christoph Waltz. Cornelis is very proud of his beautiful wife, and
arranges to have their portrait painted by rising young artist Jan Van
Loos (Dane DeHaan). Naturally, the two young people fall in love.There's a secondary plot that is very much entwined in the primary
plot. That involves Sophia's maid, Maria (Holliday Grainger) and a
young fishmonger, Willem Brok (Jack O'Connell). Dame Judi Dench plays the abbess of an orphanage. Sophia was taken from
the orphanage to be married to Cornelis. The orphanage appears to be a
place where they grow tulips, and also certify that the tulip bulb you
are paying for is the tulip bulb you're going to get. The acting in the film is superb. (Three of the leads--Vikander, Waltz,
and Dench--are Oscar winners.) Production values are very high. I have some sense of what Amsterdam
looked like in the 17th Century, because this was the Dutch artistic
Golden Age, and many wonderful paintings display what we see on the
screen. (This includes street scenes, seascapes, domestic scenes, and
tavern scenes.)Tulip Fever has been scourged by the critics. The reviewer for USA
Today criticized the film on many levels. For example, it was badly
marketed. That may be so, but that doesn't affect the quality of the
movie.The leads had no chemistry. Wrong--I don't know what film he saw, but
it couldn't have been this one.The film had too much nudity, or the trailer promised too much nudity.
This is an R-rated romance. Did he expect to see the young couple just
holding hands or playing Monopoly?The dialog was too plain. A lover says, "You have my heart." His
partner answers, "And you have mine." Sounds OK to me.Finally--and apparently worst of all--is that the movie was about
buying and selling tulips! What did he expect from a movie entitled
Tulip Fever? It wasn't about selling onions. It was called Tulip Fever
because it was about Tulipmania!Having dispensed with the USA Today review, I have to admit that the
film has a dismal IMDb rating of 6.3. It's a much better film than
that. I recommend it, if only to see Dench, Waltz, and Vikander act. We
saw it on the large screen at Rochester's excellent Little Theatre. It
won't work as well on the small screen, but it's still worth seeing. P.S. Alicia Vikander is emerging as the brightest new star on the
screen. I think she is our next Meryl Streep.
