4
Penn wants to be De Niro and Pacino simultaneously, but instead emerges ridiculous.

When it stays light and adventurous, "Gangster Squad" has its minutes
of spirited entertainment. But too often it attempts to mimic other
films while pulling back the reigns of exuberance for a much darker
approach. Zigzagging between callous seriousness one minute to comical
zaniness the next, the film offers a mishmash of tones, styles, and
gangster movie clichés. Consistency is not its strong point. By the
third time slow-motion shootouts and glamorous dames awash in billowing
cigarette smoke give way to tedious villains and brooding montages, any
sense of direction vanishes - along with the fun.It's 1940's Los Angeles and power-hungry mob boss Mickey Cohen (Sean
Penn) begins a relentless quest to take over the entire city. In order
to stop him, Police Chief Parker (Nick Nolte) tasks gung-ho Sergeant
John O'Mara (Josh Brolin) with creating the "Gangster Squad," a secret
group of unorthodox officers who will stop at nothing to bring Cohen
down. Quickly becoming as ruthless as the very thugs they're assigned
to apprehend, O'Mara, Wooters (Ryan Gosling), Harris (Anthony Mackie),
Kennard (Robert Patrick), Ramirez (Michael Pena), and Keeler (Giovanni
Ribisi) begin destroying Cohen's empire one operation at a time. But
when Wooters falls for Cohen's girl Grace (Emma Stone) and the gangster
discovers the identities of his adversaries, the battalion must prepare
for a war that will determine the fate of the city."Gangster Squad" doesn't know what it wants to be. As eclectic as the
colors are in the movie (though certainly not as extreme as "Dick
Tracy"), so too are the continually shifting tones and styles. The end
credits appear as pulpy vacation postcard illustrations (the last of
the unexpected fluctuations in imagery) which sharply contrast with the
initial scenes of ultra bloody violence (featuring a man being torn
apart by vehicles, a la "The Hitcher," which seems like a goofy
execution in the face of serious villainy), the later moments of
romance, and the climactic showdown in the Plaza Hotel. It's all as
hodgepodged as last year's "Lawless," continually trying to impart
severity, attraction, adventure, and even comedy at different moments,
but forcing the wrong emotions. Several scenes of action will likely
garner eye rolls, while elements of brutality will evoke laughter
unintentionally (the incredibly high rate of gunfire is hilarious in
comparison to stricken targets, especially as enemies unleash
machineguns against pistols and still hit nearly nothing).Penn wants to be De Niro and Pacino simultaneously, but instead emerges
ridiculous, forgetting his accent and tripping over his unnatural,
obligatory mercilessness. The language, hats, coats, dresses, flasks,
guns, cars, and cigarettes all bring momentary authenticity, but
they're no match for the exceedingly contemporary camera angels
(zooming through car windows during breakneck midnight chases), high
definition slow motion, and overly apparent special effects, which take
every opportunity to pluck audiences from their suspensions of
disbelief to draw attention to the technical methods. There are
junctures of fun, however, in the guerilla warfare tactics, battling
crooked cops, assembling a dream team (not unlike "The Untouchables" or
"Ocean's Eleven"), and the Wild West, loose cannon, one-liner gun show
that is Robert Patrick. But O'Mara's confidence and "bull in a china
shop" approach to law enforcement is frequently too generic and
consummates in dead civilians, revenge attacks, and massive shootouts
in which participants stand like stalwart statues in plain sight while
bullets whiz around them, making contact with every prop in the
background. Few viewers will be seeing these ideas for the first time.- The Massie Twins (GoneWithTheTwins.com)
