2
Carol Disappoints: Empty and Mundane

The movie "Carol," a lesbian romantic drama that is based on the book
"The Price of Salt" by Patricia Highsmith, is getting named Best Film
of the Year by just about everyone, it seems, and making all the award
short-lists. And Helen is Highly disappointed. Let me add up front that
the film was costumed by Sandy Powell, art directed by Jesse Rosenthal,
and filmed by Edward Lachman, who will all likely (and deservingly)
receive awards for their work here. But I have issues with director
Todd Haynes and screenwriter Phyllis Nagy. I saw "Carol" at the New York Film Festival, where just about every
film was more interesting than this gigantic slice of Boring. After
watching the film, I assumed most people would dislike it as much as I
did, so I was shocked when I did a quick Google search and saw the
Variety review pop up saying "High expectations don't quite prepare you
for the startling impact of Carol, exquisitely drawn, deeply felt…" No
way! My first order of business is to change Variety's intro line:
"High expectations don't quite prepare you for": the slow emptiness of
this mundane, overly precious, pointlessly detailed movie.Listen, I adore Cate Blanchett as much as anyone. And no one can say
she is not gorgeous. At one point in the film – at a party, her
estranged husband concedes to her that she is the most beautiful woman
in the room. Well, that never changes. She is the most beautiful and
the best dressed and best groomed person in every scene. So, let's all
agree to put Cate Blanchett's face in the dictionary under the word
Perfection, and then we can all go home and save ourselves two hours of
lifeless artifice. And if Cate were selling lipstick, or stockings, or
fur coats, I would buy them all. But I would not recommend this movie
to anyone. I'm happy for Cate that she got such a glamorous star vehicle in which
to show off. But why is no one else stating the obvious – that this is
essentially a vanity project for Cate Blanchett? Unfortunately however,
in this movie, we cannot see Cate's rich inner life through her the
heavy cover of makeup and fur. Remember the episode on "Mad Men," where
Don Draper is trying desperately to find the ideal, alluring model to
put in his fur coat ad? Todd Haynes' Cate Blanchett should get that
job! She is precisely what Don was looking for – an impossibly
beautiful fantasy of aspirational glamor and exquisite opulence. Women
want to be her and men want to have her exactly because she is so
flawless and empty; you feel nothing for her as a character – no
complicated emotions to ruin the high-gloss illusion. And honestly,
Cate, you are better than this; you don't need to advertise your
quintessential (surface) beauty. That Don Draper gig, and this movie,
are beneath you; you can act. This brings me to the lesbian theme of the story. Helen Highly objects
to the portrayal of Carol and her younger lover (played by Rooney Mara)
as a Hollywood male fantasy of woman-on-woman sexuality. Due to Haynes'
decision to maintain the look-and-feel of a 1950s flick, the movie
refrains from overtly explicit sex scenes, but still it has the tone of
cheesy pin-up porn – made for men, and not about real-life women who
have ambiguous thoughts and difficult feelings. Highsmith's 1953 book,
"The Price of Salt," became a lesbian-romance cult-novel, due largely
to its being the first authentic expression of lesbian love that did
not have the punishing ending that was prescribed by 1950s morality.
Highsmith was a lesbian herself (a fact she denied throughout most of
her career), and this story is semi-autobiographical, telling the tale
of when she was a shop girl who fell into a romantic obsession over an
older married woman who was a customer at the store. But let's stop
there for a moment. (Well, there's not much else to tell; the movie
mostly repeats variations of the first scene.)So many people are eager to say how this film is "important for women"
– as if it were still the act of sexual bravery and social revelation
it was in the 1950s. And that is simply not the case. Today, the
storyline is outdated. The book was ground-breaking and radical; the
movie is conventional and banal. And this is the fault of the
screenplay, which does not capture the emotional intensity or poetic
eroticism of the book. The book meticulously detailed the interior lives of these two,
passionate yet confused women; the film, instead, meticulously and
ploddingly details a story that was only loosely referenced in the book
(because Highsmith was interested in tortuous desire and fearful
loneliness, not a who-gets-the-kid divorce case). In the movie that
Nagy and Haynes made, the tale becomes a simplistic, self-righteous,
politically-correct after-school-movie. Haynes attempts, it seems, to
depict the women's emotions with an endless series of long, still- life
gazes. And so it seems that Haynes cares more about his visual style
than he does the psychology of his characters. And to those who like to
say that "Carol" is comparable to "Strangers on a Train," I say: Yes,
Hitchcock and Highsmith shared an affection for frosty blonds (perhaps
Todd Haynes does as well). But Haynes is no Hitchcock. (And "Carol" is
no thriller.) Hitchcock knew how to make an ice-queen come alive on the
screen, BUT he also understood plot; he knew what was a compelling
story and what was not. "Carol" is not. So, Cate Blanchett and Todd
Haynes can wish she were Grace Kelly or Kim Novak all day long, but
she's not going to touch a hair of their blond locks with this script
and this director.
