1
It's a black eye to the fans of the original who might have given this disaster a chance

Point Break marks another blockbuster fizzer from Warner Bros., who
after several flops is now in desperate need of a major hit. This is a
useless, money-grabbing exercise that rides the name of an already
overrated cult film as an excuse to stage pointless stunts. I'll say
this once: do not waste your money on this film. If you are a fan of
the original Point Break by Kathryn Bigelow, the film where Patrick
Swayze played a bank robbing surfer who took Keanu 'I am an FBI agent'
Reeves under his wing, watch that film again. If you are in the mood
for crazy stunts and set pieces, open YouTube and watch some extreme
sports videos on there. These are comparatively sound alternatives to
this dreck, courtesy of director Ericson Core who has made his first
film since 2006. It might take another nine years and extensive therapy
to overcome this stain. The film is so bad and amateurishly composed
that it appears someone first listed off a series of extreme stunts and
told Core and screenwriter Kurt Wimmer (Salt) to write the movie around
them no matter how jarring or ill-fitting they may seem. If you're
still wondering, the stunts don't work on their own because the
script's lousiness makes them boring since there's no investment in the
one- dimensional characters and the weak performances of the actors.No thought went into planning this narrative. It starts with two
motocross riders jumping between rock faces. One of them is Utah
(Australian actor Luke Bracey), who watches as his friend falls to his
death. The film forwards seven years to when Utah has joined the FBI
and is under the watch of Instructor Hall (Delroy Lindo), who doubts
Utah's commitment and calls him son a lot. Since Utah was once a
motocross rider in the extreme sports circle, he magically has the
background information about the activity of the dangerous gang of
extreme sports criminals Hall is chasing. It's mega stupid and as
contrived as the stunts themselves. The gang, best described as a
hodgepodge of philosophers, hippies, extremists and Mountain Dew sports
stars, is performing a ritual called the Osaki 8. The Osaki 8 involves
eight different extreme sports trials, some of which are criminal
activities but others are plain stunts including surfing and mountain
climbing. The transition between these set pieces is embarrassing. When
Utah bombs out in an early surfing attempt, the gang saves him from
drowning by bringing him onto their boat. He's recognised as a famous
motocross rider from all those years ago but everyone, at least at this
point, is oblivious that this not-exactly-inconspicuous surfer dude has
been training as a cop and is allowed to freely explore the boat of the
gang leader Bodhi (Joy's Édgar Ramírez). The other members of the gang,
including Teresa Palmer as a brief love interest, barely register at
all so you won't give two hoots about them and they aren't even smart
enough to background check Utah before initiating him. More criminal
than the stunts is how Ray Winston as Utah's partner Pappas, a
potentially good replacement for Gary Busey's comic relief character,
is inconsequential through much of the film except when questioning if
Utah is overly enjoying the gang life. But since we don't care about
the other gang members, what's the point in blurring the two lines of
the law?Does every blockbuster have to be self-serious now because it worked so
well in the Nolan Batman films? Whereas Bigelow's film meshed action
and comedy, this remake doesn't have a funny side at all. Instead,
Bodhi's long, boring monologues about giving back to the earth (what?)
are serious delusions this film has about becoming meaningful. But even
watching the film solely for the stunts is futile. The film's marketing
has emphasised how the stunts are performed by actual stuntmen as
opposed to employing special effects. But given the stunts often have
nothing to do with the gang's criminal activities, like the surfing,
gliding and snowboarding sequences, we're watching a stunt showcase
that's completely aloof from the plot. Similarly, the apparent realism
of the stunts is malarkey since some are about as plausible as a Looney
Tune's cartoon. Driving down mountain slopes ahead of an avalanche,
through a dense forest on bikes and climbing mountains with just his
bare hands will make you think that the FBI has really intensified its
training or Utah has spent a lot of time with the Avengers. The only
good things about the film are its brief reference to the bank robber
masks of the original and that this boring pile falls under the two
hour mark. It's a small victory for anyone who is foolish enough to pay
money to see it. I lied and will reiterate: don't pay money to see this
because you're only encouraging movies like this with boring action and
such carelessness towards the story. It's a black eye to the fans of
the original who might have given this disaster a chance.
