10
Among One of the Best Films of The Year

Brawl in Cell Block 99 is the long awaited sophomoric effort from the
brilliant S. Craig Zahler, the director of the 2015 surprise hit Bone
Tomahawk. Brawl in Cell Block 99 tells the story of Bradley Thomas
(played by an unrecognizable and equally amazing Vince Vaughn), a
former boxer whose life is in a bit of a downward spiral. After he is
let go from his mechanic job, he comes home to find his wife carrying
on an extramarital affair. After dismantling her car with impressive
accuracy, Bradley makes up with his wife Laura (Jennifer Carpenter) and
the two decide to continue their marriage but Bradley wants to dabble
into the criminal underworld in order to provide his future family the
life they deserve. Fast forward a couple months, Laura is pregnant and
Bradley is a drug runner. When a deal goes south and forces Bradley to
get arrested and lose the shipment which results with him getting a
light prison sentence at a cushy prison. After being visited by a drug
czar's henchmen, Bradley is told that Laura and his unborn child will
die if Bradley does not kill an inmate in Cell Block 99. Without giving
too much more away, Bradley then becomes a one-man wrecking crew that
is willing to do vile and brutal things to ensure the lives of his
family are safe.First off, this film is violent...and I mean, REALLY violent. Bone
Tomahawk is a great companion piece to this film. It is very similar in
the set up and the pay off is much the same but prolonged for this
film. The film takes a good long while to kick off but when it does, it
turns into one of the fastest paced action thrillers I've seen in a
long time. It is almost as if it is two different films. The first part
of the film is very grounded drama with crime elements within it. Then
after Udo Kier's character leaves, it is like a storm erupts. This
storm brings brutal violence, extreme gore and Vince Vaughn's
impressive fighting skills and puts them on display for everyone to see
in its uncensored glory. This film is amazing by every stretch of the
imagination. It takes it's time with the story and immerses us within
this world that Zahler carefully crafts with his script, production
design and actors. We slowly become a part of this world which bodes
well because I can't imagine this world going over well with someone
just dropped into it. To quicken the pace would be to cheapen the work
here. I'm a huge proponent of a lean running time but I was able to
overlook the seemingly bloated 132 minute run time because everything
was so damn well done, it didn't feel long at all. Furthermore,
Zahler's love of one take fight scenes really shines here and it really
gets the blood pumping. Seeing a quick edited action sequence up
against something like this? There is no comparison and I wouldn't be
surprised if more action directors take a page out of Zahler's vision. Overall, Brawl in Cell Block 99 could have me going on for days upon
days on how much I enjoyed it. It is a perfect balance between realism
and pulp fiction, drama and brutality, production design and overall
direction. It feels like a better movie than it will probably get
credit for and showcases Vince Vaughn in a career changing performance
that is bound to leave your jaw on the floor with how amazing he is in
both a dramatic and physical sense. I can't recommend this movie enough
especially if you're a fan of action films. It is far and away one of
the best films I've seen this year.
