7
The Man from C.O.O.L.

I had heard of the 60's television show "The Man from UNCLE", but like
most of us under the age of 60, never got the chance to see an episode.
I know, I know, there have been countless re-runs, it just never
grabbed my attention. All I could go on were the words from my wise
mother who stated, "I used to watch that show when I was a kid back in
the 60's. It starred.....oh what's his name.....Robert Vaughan." She
couldn't remember the other actor that starred along side Vaughan but I
was guessing she was just thrilled to have something from her childhood
reborn into the 21st Century.Let me start by saying, this is a good movie. The star of the show is
undoubtedly the director, Guy Ritchie and like most film buffs, was
more curious than excited about U.N.C.L.E.'s arrival. I was curious to
see what Ritchie could do with a television program that has been dead
and buried for over fifty years. Was he going to modernise it for the
21st century? Was it going to be a serious take on the lighted-hearted
spy genre? Who was going to be in it? I am really glad I am getting the
chance to review one of Guy Ritchie's films because I am a fan. I
enjoyed Sherlock Holmes and his gritty London underground films but was
I going to enjoy this. He seems to be the go to director when Hollywood
needs a relic dug up and brought back to life.Guy Ritchie's trademark is everywhere on this film, from the stylish
sets, to the retro fashion. The catchy score, the swagger, and the
witty banter, all are part of the Guy Ritchie experience. His ability
to take the audience back to the 1960's was a master stroke and will
keep UNCLE unique when compared to the many other spy franchises that
hit our cinema screens all too often. Ritchie was able to find the
right balance of subtle amusement, keeping true to the television show,
without making it into an obvious comedic sketch. It was an
entertaining, fun ride that engrossed the audience from start to finish
with enough action to keep the doubters glued to the screen.We are introduced to the two protagonists, CIA agent, Napoleon Solo
(Henry Cavill) and KGB operative, Illya Kuryakin (Armie Hammer), who
team up against their wishes to foil the attempts of a mysterious
organisation to produce and profit from nuclear weapons. Set to the
backdrop of the Cold War, the two secret agents must rely on the
daughter of a German Scientist, Gaby Teller (Alicia Vikander) to
infiltrate the organisation. But is she more than just a mechanic? The
three stars are evenly matched throughout the film, each getting their
chance to shine in the spotlight but if there is a standout performance
it would have to be Ms Vikander who dazzles in a mesmerizing array of
1960's fashion. She looks the part and plays the part perfectly of a
seemingly innocent and sweet young woman tangled up in the world of
espionage.Guy Ritchie has taken a gamble on his two leading men with both heavily
criticised in recent big budget roles but it pays off as Cavill and
Hammer look comfortable in their roles with neither outshining the
other. The two agents continually strive for superiority, mimicking
their own countries need for supremacy in the volatile world of the
1960's. Hammer's short tempered psychopath is perfectly balanced to the
cool, slick ladies man of Cavill. Elisabeth Debicki is chilling and
cold as the she-devil villain and the big goof, Hugh Grant is used to
perfection by Ritchie who gives him a nice cameo. Grant adds a bit of
star recognition to the film but comes across as rather likable with
well timed appearances.This is a film to be enjoyed for what it is.....a fun ride. Taking it
too seriously will damage the experience.
