7
One of the better comedies to come out recently

When I first looked at the cast to this movie, it was a guarantee for
me to see this movie. The premise maybe a rehash of Bruce Almighty but
considering the Monty Python team, Robin Williams and Simon Pegg among
others... Yeah, I was going to see this and the trailers unlike every
other comedy that's come out in the past few years looked pretty
promising.The plot, aliens find a satellite of Earth from 1972 giving them a
run-down of humanity. So they decide the best thing to do would be to
order a destruction on Earth considering they think humanity is stupid
and has no idea about anything in comparison. However, according to
intergalactic law the only way to fully determine this is to give any
random person the ability to pretty much do anything, ANYTHING they
want. However, he slowly learns that it frequently has monkey-paw
twists depending on his wording.My biggest problem with the movie is while this is frequently funny,
you do have to wait about 25 minutes before this gets good and being
that it's 80 minutes, it doesn't leave a lot of room to make this funny
considering the part near the end when some of the things that's done
comes back to bite him on the ass and destroys his social life. With
all things considered, it's within reason.With that said, now to bring on the Bruce Almighty comparisons, the
dramatic part is better and a lot less forced, which is much better but
I'd also say Bruce Almighty said he can't mess with free will and here
they do this all the time. To me this makes the movie a little...
creepy. I hate romances like in Bewitched (2005) and I don't know what
else where the romance blooms from mind-control and to me, that creates
a huge disconnect. But I will say unlike other comedies the character
of the love interest isn't just a blank slate but I think it would also
be a much stronger ending if he instead learns to live with the
mistakes he made with all this and grows more-so as a person then he
did.Onto what I did like. There were some funny parts, I would argue after
he accidentally resurrects everyone on the planet as zombies, every
joke seems to hit with me... for the most part. The stuff at the
beginning while I admit was slow it does get a few chuckles. I'd even
say if you don't think about the messing with free will thing, it is
pretty harmless as a comedy.I'd say, this isn't really as funny as I would have liked considering
the cast and if you're a fan of some of them like I am or have seen
them in roles you think are hilarious then I'd recommend lowering the
expectations. I'd say it is worth it and be patient with it at the
beginning.
