1
Want to lower your IQ? Watch this.

It's troubling that a movie can be singularly focused on loud
explosions and violence with no plot, dialogue, or character
development, yet receive widespread critical acclaim. This is the first
film I've ever seen that actually reminded me of the type the populace
in Idiocracy would find enthralling. To be clear, there are no redeeming qualities about this film. None.
And I went in with pretty low expectations, figuring this would be some
fun, mindless entertainment i.e The Expendables or any Jason Statham
movie. The first few minutes weren't too bad: it looked cheesy, but it
had potential. But then I realized that this movie is one long (boring)
car chase...and that's it. Really. I mean it really was boring --
exactly what an action movie should not be. The car chases are all one
and the same. After a few minutes, it just isn't exciting.There is no story. The two leads drive to the middle of nowhere, then
turn around. That's it. Two of the characters mention they are "looking
for redemption" or some other trite nonsense, but the audience is never
told why. Not that they'd care. Is the story about survival? At first
you'd think so. Max mentions in the opening credits that he is a man
reduced to one trait: survival. Yet at the film's end, when he finally
has an opportunity to survive....he chooses not to? What? The movie was
bad enough until this. Actually I forgot, there is an incredibly forced
romance between two side characters that does nothing to further the
story. This is a B movie with a big budget.Likewise, there is essentially no dialogue, save a few grunts from Max
and cringe-inducingly awkward lines from the rest. There isn't any character development, but then again, the characters
themselves resemble video game characters. There are no characters to
develop, just two-dimensional avatars used for an excuse to show
explosions. So what is this film's targeted demographic? I'm not sure. I can
imagine that if you are a 13-year old boy, really into
cars/trucks/slipknot, pretty redneck, and probably a little slow, this
movie may seem pretty cool. I mean it does have ridiculous cars/trucks
outfitted with lots of weapons, spikes, flame-exhausts, (breast-milk?)
and guys playing "cool" guitar riffs for no apparent reason. There's
also lots of explosions and fighting. And scantily clad women. And
tornadoes. And skulls. On top of all that, there is no need to pay
attention to petty plot lines or dialogue in order to enjoy the film.
Hell once they reach the desert, the movie repeats itself as the leads
drive the truck back through the same place being chased by the same
guys for no discernible reason. The special effects aren't even that good. The whole movie looks fake.
I know they went to great measures to avoid using CGI, but honestly, I
thought I'd at least be impressed by the special effects, since clearly
nothing was spent on anything else. And I'm not the kind of person who
usually notices when CGI is used or not. Truly awful. I would rate it lower if I could. The only recent movie
that may have actually been worse that this was Lucy, which was also
mind-numbingly stupid. As the principal in Billy Madison once said, "everyone in this room is
now dumber for having (watched) it." AVOID
