8
Slow Burn

Raw (original title: Grave) is French director Julia Ducournau's
feature film debut, and DAMN it is good to see a female director rock
so hard. It has won several awards at various screenings so far, which
comes as no surprise to me. It is just barely over the line into the
horror genre, but the scenes and images that do qualify have a lasting
impact.The movie focuses primarily on Justine (Garance Marillier in what is
her own feature film debut, amazingly) as she navigates the rather
terrifying waters of starting veterinary school at her parents' alma
mater and alongside her free-willed sister, Alexia (Ella Rumpf). During
an unusually sinister hazing ritual, Justine — a lifelong vegetarian —
is forced to eat raw meat, and finds she likes it more than she
expected…** SPOILERS! **What struck me initially — and throughout the entire film — was how
different of a mood there was surrounding Justine's starting at school.
There is usually such an air of excitement, nervous anticipation, and
downright electricity when movie characters are shown going off to
school… but there is immediately a feeling of dread and sort of
half-hearted resistance. There's no doubt that while Justine is
obviously intelligent and compassionate, veterinary school — or at
least *this* veterinary school — was not her first choice. The "elders"
are cruelly juvenile in their displays of asserting their dominance and
it makes for an unpredictable and volatile experience, not knowing when
they will have another unreasonable request.The cinematography — done by Ruben Impens — is impressive from the
get-go. The shots are fresh and creative, unapologetically both raw and
genuine, stripped down at times but rich in symbolism, color
placement/contrast, and excellent lighting.Speaking of symbolism, Ducournau does a masterful job at conveying
Justine's sexual and self-awakening with the use of some primal yet
honest imagery. She spends the first chunk of the movie cautiously
bumbling through life, avoiding confrontation, dodging attention, and
being afraid to stand up for her own personal values even as they're
violated at the urging of her own sister. But after she tastes her
first bit of raw flesh, she is slowly but intensely transformed. The
scene of her covertly gnawing on a raw chicken breast from her room's
mini fridge won't stick with me nearly as long as her rhythmically
swaying and girating in front of the mirror, seemingly aware of her own
power for the first time, sneering and smearing hot pink lipstick
across her mouth.The gore is stomach-churning but well-placed. The film maintains this
eerie hypnotism throughout — reminiscent, in a way, of David Lynch's
work. There are many moments where your gut instinct is to turn your
head but something deeper pulls at your attention.It crescendos into several fantastic twists at the end, which I won't
ruin… but suffice it to say that I loved the combination of repulsion
and reuniting, the brutal and unhindered show of humanity's — and
woman's — transformation.A grisly, heartbreaking, slow burn of a film… highly recommended.
