1
Raise your hand if you were paid to provide a thumbs up!

I had high anticipations for this movie. The trailer could've won a
trailer Oscar. After it was over I was so angry that I wished I could
terminate everyone involved with this horrible movie. What a waste of
time and money. Everybody should be ashamed of their involvement. No
plot development, putrid acting performances - hey, Hugh, tone down the
roid rage or skip the gym a couple days a week! The villains were
laughable, offering wooden recitation of terrible dialog. The plot was
so full of logic holes that the focus for me became how anybody would
have thought the script was well-written and deserved funding. Somebody
- but certainly not the right person - is taking one the hard way for
this mess. I'm no Roger Ebert so pardon the lack of cinematic
dissertation, but it's not needed. This movie sucks, plain and simple,
and the parties responsible should be stripped of their profits and
made to watch it repeatedly for a month. It IS that bad.This guy nailed it better than I did so I'm going to give him a shout
out - Jeremy Jobe, USA - and try this: "I have no words for how bad it
was. I was thinking of crafting a heated letter to Hugh Jackman and
demanding he reimburse me for 2 hours of my life. It was so bad that I
used to like District 9, but my consciousness has traveled back in time
and now hates it for reminding me of Chappie. It was my personal
Vietnam set to film. Terrible plot, combined with every single actor
simultaneously putting on the worst acting performances of their
respective careers. I just ate some cheesecake to try and take this day
down a notch.I don't want to hate the reviewers that posted positive ratings before
me, but a small part of me truly does. Why, WHY would you play this
cruel joke on your fellow IMDBers? There is no way anyone actually went
to this movie and walked out thinking "That was pretty good!" How, how,
please God, why are there 10/10 reviews all over this page? When I am
80 years old and on my death bed, I will look back and wonder what I
might have been able to do with the 2 hours that I once squandered
watching Chappie."
