9
Pixar back to making top quality animated films

When I first heard about this and saw trailers, I felt like it would be
OK, a good laugh but not enough to really challenge other Pixar films.
I can safely say that I was wrong on that score, for it manages to not
only be successful prequel to the original film but also a great film
in its own right. Billy Crystal and John Goodman slip effortlessly back
into their roles as Mike Wazowski and Sully despite playing younger
versions of themselves. The other main highlight of the voice cast is
Helen Mirren's intimidating Dean Hardscrabble, who is a menacing
presence and I'm sure the design of her character was modelled on
Maleficent from Sleeping Beauty. Steve Buscemi's Randall also returns
and although I felt that he would have a stronger part in the movie,
the seeds are sown for his villainous ways in the original.What astounded me was the creativity throughout the film, the effort
that had gone into the university environment and the monsters that
inhabited it (there's one monster who has university down pat in a
hilarious moment that all students will understand!). The new
characters that become Mike and Sully's friends, the Oozma Kappa gang,
are all adorable and memorable, providing a lot of the film's humour as
well as one of its most touching moments towards the end. The film is
consistently hilarious but also remembers that it has to develop the
initial rivalry then friendship of Mike and Sulley. The world set up in
the original is also included more than I thought it would (a couple of
trips to Monsters Inc. itself) and there are some brilliant cameos from
two memorable characters from Inc.Although the friend I was watching it with said that the film was low
stakes, as you knew how it would end, I found that the film still
managed to feel fresh despite dealing with underdog clichés and the
problem of being a prequel. In a Q and A after the preview screening,
the director and producer said that this was about when your dreams
don't come true: a strangely anti-Disney philosophy in many ways but
one that is honest and teaches kids reality about the world of work,
none more so than a delightful montage of pictures explaining how Mike
and Sully ended up in their respective positions in Inc. I haven't seen
Cars 2 (not sure I want to) and although I enjoyed Brave, it is
definitely lesser Pixar fare whereas Monsters University sees them back
at the top, creating a touching and hilarious story that will hopefully
see them get back to dishing out the quality every time.I am a bit confused as to some of the critical reviews, and why this
film currently has 75% on Rotten Tomatoes is beyond me. I sincerely
hope this will go up, because it should be nearer 90. I watched Finding
Nemo in 3D in April and although Nemo isn't my favourite Pixar, MU is
easily as good as that. One critic argues that this film is too similar
to The Internship...well that's the Internship's problem, as this film
will have been longer in the making undoubtedly and judging from IMDb
score doesn't seem to have anywhere near the same creativity and
imagination behind it. This may not scale the heights of the Toy Story
trilogy but it most certainly is not forgettable and the fact that I
nearly shed a tear at one point (and it was NOT for the main two
characters funnily enough) proves that the film gives more than just
'how did Sulley and Mike become friends'. If everyone keeps expecting
Pixar to produce a Toy Story every time and if they leave a film having
not experienced that and express their disappointment/outrage as a
result, that's unfair. My favourite Pixars are Toy Story 1-3, Monsters
Inc and Wall-E (10/10), then Incredibles, Up, Finding Nemo, Bug's Life
(9/10) and I would place Monsters University just after A Bug's Life
but in many ways it's probably better.9/10 (RT had better follow suit)
