6
Fails To Plumb The Subject's Depth

A poor kissing cousin to "Stockholm, Pennsylvania," "Room" is a
backyard shed creating the world's limits to a kidnapped young woman
and her by-the-adbductor son.Snatched at seventeen, Joy (Brie Larson) is imprisoned for seven years
by a standard, un-dimensional psycho holding the power of life and
death over her. (Cross him in the least and there's no electricity or
heat.) At the start, Joy's son, Jack (Jacob Tremblay), is angry and
semi-feral yet quite content following silly rules in the only world he
knows. Their pointless days come to an end when Joy contrives Jack's
death forcing the psycho to bury the allegedly dead child.
Well-rehearsed, Jack escapes and the dominoes fall leading to their
escape to a world that has passed by Joy and one in which Jack has zero
knowledge (a first encounter with steps mystifies him).Yellow ribbons and celebrations follow. With opposite effect. Joy's
parents have divorced, high school chums have moved on. A formative
slice of high school track star Joy's life is missing. Joy's biological
dad harshly judges her; mom and daughter fight at the same level of a
rebellious teen railing against parental control.Due to his age, Jack is 'plastic', his societal integration much
easier. Soon he's knocking around a ball with neighbor kid. But, a
reporter's insensitive question causes Joy to break down which leads to
a brief institutionalization. And she's released all better.However, the treatment of an inherently dramatic subject matter of
abduction and reintegration here falls short. The sunshine and
rainbows, feel good ending, while moving, is mawkish. Everyone is
healed and the horror of what was lived through for nearly a decade is
forgotten. It is also a cheap device when children are wiser than
adults. All these problems of the script.The balance of the failure of this film rests squarely on Brie Larson's
shoulders. Her portrayal, as others, is at arms length with the
character and hit a wall keeping her from connecting with feelings.
Many crow her portrayal is spectacular. For her it is. In the annals of
effective acting it is middling. Therefore, this is her tour de force -
by default."Stockholm, Pennsylvania" took the protagonist's story to a far more
logical, satisfying and shocking conclusion. On the base, sensational
end of the spectrum, TV's "Cleveland Abduction." Find "Room" between
the two. Either a good movie-of-the-week or poor indie sidestepping,
and in some ways trivializing, a horrific subject.Watch "Stockholm, Pennsylvania" instead.
