5
A spoonful of sugar too much

Another 'inspired by a true story' movie surefiring its way to this
years Academy Awards, tells the story of the odd cat-fight between P.
L. Travers (Emma Thompson), author of the famed Mary Poppins books, and
Walt Disney (Tom Hanks) en route to the production of the live action
feature. After 20 years of constantly pressuring the author on selling
her book to Disney, Travers finally reluctantly agrees given her
financial plight. However, she stipulates the need for her to have
control over the end product with script authority and veto power. This
creates tension with the scriptwriter and the musicians (especially
given Travers is reluctant to agree to any music at all). With this
uneasy relationship slowly boiling over it seems like the picture is
destined for failure. However, the experiences of the writer bring back
painful memories of her youth, which give insight as to the origins of
her beloved flying nanny.The movie juxtaposes the prickly P.L. Travers with the overbearing
optimism of Disney and the Californian sunshine. Watching Disney
especially, presented as a jovial and considerate person, as opposed to
the troubled Travers, managed to arouse my inner grumpiness, cheering
on the Australian-born children author in her endeavour of being an
full-fledged pain in the buttocks to the animation studio and her
employees. Ultimately somewhat let down that Travers lets herself be
corrupted by the twinkle toes of Hollywood, especially with the
externally honest, internally two-faced Disney in mind. Thus, I must
admit I failed to catch on to the rampaging mirthfulness of the movie,
instead finding myself irritated by the positive light being shone on
the American way of being, as contrasted to the straight-faced jabbing
sardonicism of the foreigner.Emma Thompson remains a shining light throughout, in thick or thin, in
drama or comedy, delivering arguably the best and most complete
performance of the year (regardless of sex). Beautifully layered thanks
to her starkly English attitude as well as some very well intertwined
flashbacks, much can be forgiven and forgotten. Nonetheless, when
Disney slowly seems to be winning the fight for the heart, I found
myself pulling back emotionally at the insincere American entirety of
the movie. Especially given the presentation of Walt Disney in this
movie is a far cry from reality, sugar-coating a man who deserves no
such accolades. The internal conflict that drives the movie slowly
irritates, with the only emotional impact owing to the sidelined
back-story of P. L. Travers and exceptional acting by Thompson.
