9
It's a hard film to watch, at times, but definitely worth it.

'THE HOMESMAN': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five)Tommy Lee Jones directed, co-wrote and stars in this western/drama film
(set in the 1850s midwest) about a 'spinster' and a 'drifter'
transporting three women, driven mad by the hardships of the time,
across the country. It costars Hilary Swank, Miranda Otto, Grace Gummer
and Sonja Richter. It also features cameos by Meryl Streep, John
Lithgow, James Spader, Tim Blake Nelson, William Fichtner and Hailee
Steinfeld. The film was written by Jones, Kieran Fitzgerald and Wesley
Oliver and it's based on the 1988 novel, of the same name, by Glendon
Swarthout. French filmmaker Luc Besson served as a producer of the
movie and it also features a breathtaking music score by Marco
Beltrami. It's surprisingly dark, and extremely disturbing, but I
enjoyed it due to it's strong character development, outstanding
performances and odd beauty.Swank plays Mary Bee Cuddy, a strong and independent 31-year-old woman
from New York. She desperately wants to find a husband but can't, due
to men finding her too plain looking (I don't think Swank looks bad at
all in this movie, considering the film's time and setting). When the
local reverend (Lithgow) asks for someone to transport three women
across the country, to a church in Hebron Iowa, Cuddy volunteers. The
women (Otto, Gummer and Richter) are all mentally ill and the church
will provide the special help they need. Cuddy comes across a drifter
named George Briggs (Jones), who's about to be lynched for 'claim
jumping', and asks him for his help (in return for saving his life).
The two make the long journey together and form an odd bond.The movie has been called a 'feminist western', by many, and I'd
definitely agree it's a strong female character study, about the
hardships women faced at the time. Swank is outstanding in the co- lead
and Jones is just as classic and tough as ever; he does
(unintentionally I think) steal some of the female cast's thunder.
Jones also proves he's an equally talented director (once again) and
the movie is full of beautiful visuals, as well as haunting imagery.
For me the highlight of the film is the beautiful music and the
touching relationships formed by the movie's central characters (it
also has a shocking and unexpected twist, at the end of the second
act). It's a hard film to watch, at times, but definitely worth it; if
you're a fan of the genre or even if you're not.Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://youtu.be/1_bZp5ejQ4I
