1
James Wan fails yet again

James Wan is creatively bankrupt, and grossly over rated. I went to see The Conjuring 2 today with a friend and I was completely
fed up by the end.The movie starts off with a blatant marketing pitch for what I'm
guessing is going to be 'The Conjuring 3'. Why else introduce the
Amityville Horror at the beginning which has absolutely nothing to do
with the Enfield Poltergeist? It's just so James Wan can keep milking
his franchise like he did with The Conjuring 1 with Annabelle, and the
god awful Insidious series etc. Either that or they will make a spin
off featuring Marilyn Manson in a nuns outfit.So then the film shifts to London, with a cringe-worthy attempt of
signifying that we are now in London by playing London Calling by The
Clash. Cue stock footage of very British things and blah blah blah we
are in a school playground where we meet Janet and then its over to her
house to meet her caricature mother. The mother who has the most fake
sounding cockney accent you will ever hear. In England we refer to it
as 'mockney'. It's so over done and put on you wonder why Wan didn't
just hire an actress from Eastenders. The acting may have been worse
but at least you'd have more of a real sounding London accent. That
scene where she goes into the basement of the house with a mate to mess
about with the washing machine, I felt like I was watching a live
London stage show. Where the actors over do the acting and accent.Thankfully, I wasn't the only one in the cinema who laughed out loud at
the actor playing Maurice Grosse. Another awful, awful representation
of a real person. His moustache and hair looked glued on and again was
nothing more than a hilarious caricature. Most of the extras in this
movie (people playing the police etc) had no fluidity at all, just a
stale rigid performance devoid of anything you could relate to real
people.Every 'scary' scene is a loud bass thump accompanied by a jump scare.
This is the extent of James Wans creative vision. Mind you, I will give
him credit for the chair scene where Janet is blurred out in the
background and old Bill comes for a chat with Patrick Wilson. You can
see bills face form slowly as he talks. Thats as good as the film got.There was no tension, no atmosphere, nothing. The inside of the house
was HUGE for a London council flat. Flats like that are tiny in
reality.And the demons great plan for Mr Warrens demise was to make him fall
from the top window and impale him on a sharp tree branch below? LOL.
Come on Wan, this is something a child would come up with.The film got silly at many points, especially that cgi demon that came
out of the dog. Just degraded the movie further and was comical more
than anything.The first time BIll speaks through Janet when the press
are there in the living room just sounded ridiculous.Again, the use of religion to combat the evil just got on my nerves.
Apparently Ed Warrens cross on his necklace warded off evil spirits but
Janets room full of crucifixes on the wall did diddly squat. Any one
else getting fed up to the back teeth of good vs evil involving
religion? The acting was adequate enough but Madison Wolfe makes no
impression what so ever. The other child actors were good enough I
suppose.There's nothing here you haven't seen before. James Wan uses the same
old tedious, trite tricks and just copy and pastes from his other
movies, with the exception of a differently arranged type of jump scare
etc. He lacks vision and creativity. All he is, is a commercially
viable hack making watered down 'horror' for the lowest common
denominator. Generation 'apphole' will eat this crap up like its the
best thing 'evaaaa' and hail Wan as a movie making god.The emperor has no clothes.
