6
Decent Half a Movie

Joy is a fine half a film. The performances all-around are strong, the
story is uncommon enough to grab your attention, and keep you invested,
and the direction is solid. With all that in mind, Joy still feels like
a shallow version of what could have been. There is a reason why all
the movie's Oscar buzz has all but dissipated in every category except
a courtesy nod to Jennifer Lawrence as Best Actress; Why? You should
read on.Lawrence plays the titular character, a mother of two with a very
complicated home life. Though divorced, her ex-husband (Ramirez) lives
in the basement waiting for his singing career to take off. Though she
has decidedly negative relationships with her parents, her shut-in
mother (Madsen) lives with her and her father (De Niro) is a serial
divorcée with a struggling auto repair shop. It's also the 1980's and
she works the night shift for an Airline that's dramatically cutting
back hours; yikes. The only thing she has going for her is she likes to
tinker and has the work ethic to see a good idea through. So when she
has a eureka moment after a failed excursion on her father's new
girlfriend's boat, she quickly invents a household object that may just
be her ticket out of systemic poverty.I don't think I'm giving much away by saying the movie asks its
audience to hinge their emotional cache on a mop. The self-wringing
Miracle Mop to be exact, invented by honest-to-God real person Joy
Mangano. Leave it to director David O. Russell to find a decent story
in the life of a QVC luminary and keep it just this side of rational.
The prologue of the film lovingly dedicates the movie to "daring
women," which Joy certainly is but Russell wisely omits the last name
to give the audience a universality. This too can be your story of
success if you have grit and a good idea. It's a great theme sadly
worth a much better movie.Part of the problem is the pace. There are long stretches of
improvisations that carry absolutely no emotional weight. Unlike
American Hustle (2013) and Silver Linings Playbook (2012) where the
rushed, overlapping dialogue and melodramatic mugging serves to
highlight the immediacy of, say dealing with the mob, here there's
nothing holding us to the characters and their goals...except Joy.
Russell seems to be aware of his own style and juxtaposes the lives on
screen with an 80's era soap opera which consumes the life of Joy's
mother. The parallel is interesting in theory but the results deflate
the proceedings.Not usually the voice of hope, I really wanted to like this movie. A
movie about the positives of hard work and entrepreneurship has not hit
theaters since Pursuit of Happyiness (2006). Yet out of all modern
directors working today, David O. Russell feels like a quixotic
mouthpiece for such a hopeful theme. His movies always have an
unabashed pessimism about human nature that undermines his characters
with an almost Bunuelian sense of treachery. Even as far back as his
Three Kings (1999) days there was a mercurial, bittersweet undercurrent
to his work. Joy bares disappointment after disappointment to a
breaking point most protagonists of this genre would buckle under.
Then, as if to put a band-aid on an open gash, the movie ends with an
epilogue that's pat to the point of flimflam.www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com
