8
Great follow-up to a brilliant movie

20 years after betraying his friends and running off with (almost) all
the money from a scam, Mark Renton is back in Edinburgh. It is his
first time back since the events that split him, Spud and Simon apart.
He looks up Spud and Simon but their lives are hardly much better than
when he last saw them. Spud, after getting his life together, has seen
it all unravel, to the point that he is suicidal. Simon is running his
father's loss-making pub, in between bouts of blackmail. Meanwhile, the
fourth person in their caper of 20 years' ago, the psychotically
intense Begbie, is in jail. He has no intention of staying incarcerated
and revenge is foremost on his mind...The original Trainspotting was brilliant. Funny, gritty and harrowing
it dealt with the issue of drug addiction in a suffocatingly intense
yet humorous way. It wasn't just about drug addiction but friendship
and, ultimately, about a crime caper and betrayal. Directed by Danny Boyle, who directed Trainspotting 1, Trainspotting 2
doesn't have the grimness of the first movie, as the drug addiction
side is hardly a factor. For me, that is what made Trainspotting 1 a
masterpiece, the way it covered drug addiction in a realistic yet
humorous manner. T2 is more about friendship and the after-effects of
T1's betrayal, resulting it being more of an action-revenge sort of
movie. Plot is good, though there are some contrivances and inconsistencies.
Quite emotional at times too, as we see some loops from T1 closed,
friends reunited and 40-somethings taking stock of their lives.Humour-wise, T2 is great, and as good as, if not better than, T1. Some
very funny scenes and dialogue.Not essential that you've watched T1 to follow and enjoy T2, as there
are enough flashbacks and other clues to fill you in on what happened
in T1. However, watching T1 before T2 certainly would help the
experience. There are plenty of side-references and subtle nods to T1
and these enhance the enjoyment of T2.Overall, a great movie, though not in the same league as Trainspotting
1. Very funny at times, with a good plot and some interesting themes.
