7
Tom Hardy solidifies himself as the baddest badass of our time

I'll be blunt, I came into this film with low expectations. Shia LeBouf
was never my favorite actor, apart from when he played Stanley Yelnats
in Holes (even if he was badly mis-cast). I was getting ready to hear
him yell things towards something past the audience and watch him force
himself to cry, which is one of the ugliest things I have ever seen.
Apart from my low expectations, I kept an open mind and, let me say, I
was pleasantly surprised.The basic premise of Lawless tells a story about a family of country
bootleggers in Franklin, a small village somewhere hear Chicago. As
prohibition came to fruition, the law started buckling down. Enter Guy
Pearce, the Special-Super Deputy in charge of seeing over the shutting
down of all stills and confiscation of all moonshine out of Franklin.
What follows is an account of the Bounderant family taking a stand for
their own product and going against the law.The acting in this movie is quite good, with the performance of Gary
Oldman being short but meaningful. Guy Pearce makes a really good bad
guy, almost Jude Law-esque from Road to Perdition. Shia holds his own
and the supporting cast isn't bad, but Tom Hardy steals the show as the
"invincible" Forrest Bounderant. As the title suggests, Forrest is a
badass in this film. I can't go into details for fear of disclosing
spoilers, but just know that Hardy once again makes us fall in
movie-love with his character.The story is quite good, giving the audience a different look to the
bootlegging scene. The HBO show Boardwalk Empire provides an inside
look at upper-class bootlegging while Lawless takes us into where the
alcohol originates: in the country. There are twists and turns in the
plot and the ending wraps everything up nicely.All-in-all I'd recommend this movie. It's a solid all-around film, and
although it seems to drag out sometimes there's plenty of action to
boot.+3 for Tom Hardy+3 for story-telling+1 for supporting cast
