10
The Most Funny Scorsese Movie Yet

Let me start by saying that in my view, Scorsese almost outshines
himself in this amazing movie, proving time only makes him better. I
mean this is just Scorsese at his finest moment. With the amazing story
of Jordan Belfort, done the best way possible. With some of his best
cinematography, and some of his best directing.The story is basically about Jordan Belfort who gets a job as a broker
on wall street. He quickly becomes great at it, and after a while
starts his own small company. After the company has become pretty
successful the story quickly turns around to a rich guy, dealing with
drugs, women, the FBI, and everything you could want from a Scorsese
Movie.The main character Jordan Belfort is a clear fraud, extremely
self-centered, do not have problems ripping small company's or poor
people of for his own interests. And still we just can't help to love
the guy. Again Scorsese shows that he can make us cry, for an egoistic
criminal we normally would not care about. I just never personally
thought I would or even could care for a guy like Jordan Belfort, but I
ended up completely entangled in his life, and I loved it. The story
focuses very much on the drug abuse, and friendship, but also just how
Jordan became the Wolf of Wall Street. Leonardo Dicaprio gives his maybe best role till date. As he is
completely convincing as the sex crazed, drug crazed, criminal we can't
help to love. There is also many small roles that are good and even
great like, Jonah Hill, Margot Robbie, Matthew Mcconaughey, Rob Reiner,
and many more. And don't let the 3 hour running time scare you away, I can promise it
will at most feel like 30 minutes. I truly can only say positive things
about this amazing movie. Let me finish by saying that this is maybe
the best movie of the 2010's and not only that, but it is also one of
Martin Scorsese's best movies. I hope this review was helpful and I
hope you will love the movie just as much as I did. 10/10
