10
Enjoyed every moment of this film

I have to start my review with discussing the inevitable comparisons
with "The Fault in Our Stars". John Green fans would find it
blasphemous to say this is a superior film but it certainly is. I don't
think that I can argue that the characters in TFIOS are more realistic,
but the whole unique style and quirkiness of MAEATDG make it a true
classic of the teen genre like "The Breakfast Club" or "Breaking Away".
It as important as many of the films to which Earl and Greg pay homage
with their own hilarious versions.So many of the same subjects that one finds in any film about the
coming of age of high school students exist in this film, but the
director Alfonso Gomez-Rejon puts his own stamp on what could otherwise
be called cliché. Kudos to Gomez-Rejon whose previous work has been
with several Fox TV shows. He should have a good career in film from
here on out.Olivia Cooke as Rachel, Thomas Mann as Greg, and RJ Cyler as Earl are
all fantastic. I was familiar with Olivia Cooke before but not the
other two. I expect to see a lot more from all of them.The adults are all superbly cast as well. Molly Shannon spends the
movie with a glass of white wine in one hand drowning the pain of
dealing with her daughter's plight. Connie Briton and Nick Offerman are
wonderful as Greg's parents, with Nick showing that the eccentricities
of the child do not fall far from the tree.I saw this tonight at a screening in Denver at an art house cinema
called "The Mayan" It was built probably in the 30s or 40s most likely
a single cinema that they did a pop top on to create two more theaters.
Those two upstairs theaters are odd to say the least. The leg room is
less than economy class on Spirit Air and the screen is not much more
than double the size of my screen at home. Probably less that 150 seats
as well.Weird place to show the film, since the theater downstairs is
really quite nice. I bring this up because I hope this film gets seen
by more than the art- house crowd. It really should have mass appeal. I
assume Fox hopes to build strong word of mouth on Me and Earl. Well let
me help them. Just go see this film. You won't regret it.
