5
A big step backwards.

*Contains Spoilers for both HTTYD 1 and 2* I thought that How to Train
Your Dragon (2010) was a phenomenal movie; in fact, I think that it
still stands as the pinnacle of animated movies to this day, both
through storytelling and through beautiful animation. In the original,
a young boy realizes that dragons and Vikings can coexist after main
protagonist Hiccup bonds with a wounded dragon trapped in a crater.
Hiccup nurses the dragon, whom he named Toothless, back to health, and
the two characters realize that the species they both were brought up
to hate are not ruthless monsters, but instead intelligent and
compassionate beings. The two then bring their worlds together and
unite to face the real evil- the malevolent Queen dragon that forces
her dragons to feed her, or else. There is quality character
progression, a love interest, moments that make you laugh, moments that
make your heart skip a beat, and you come to love the setting and the
characters- especially the unbreakable bond between Hiccup and
Toothless. But then came How To Train Your Dragon 2 (2014). It started off exactly
like the first, with Hiccup narrating the lifestyle of his homeland.
The opening scene with the game of capture-the-sheep is very... forced.
There is nothing that throws us into danger like HTTYD 1 did with the
epic battle of Vikings vs Dragons. The dialog of the other
teenagers/young adults is annoying and repetitive (and this continues
throughout the movie), and the scene only exists to reveal that Hiccup
is missing. Cut to the next scene.NOW we get thrown into the Fantasy world we all loved from HTTYD 1- the
dynamic duo is soaring through the air, we see Hiccup's impressive
armor and flight suit, and we realize that their bond remains as strong
as the original. But then comes Astrid, who has had her character image
flipped upside down. The former badass tom-boy that played a critical
role in HTTYD 1 is now a happy and carefree character that serves as a
sidekick rather than a partner/love interest. Throughout the entire
movie, she follows Hiccup's lead. Again. And Again. And again. She is a
flat character with no development, which is a shame seeing as she was
such a round and dynamic character in HTTYD 1.Skipping ahead, we see a pirate trapper with no motive as to why he
serves a villain who gives him nothing in return, the continuation of
Stoick playing the "I never listen to my son" father, and Gobber
playing the comic relief character who says nothing witty or clever
(except for his quote on marriage- that quote had some funny, hidden
adult humor). And then comes... Drago. The cliché name combined with a
barbaric tone of voice is bad enough, but do you know why he has set
his sights on world domination with a fierce dragon army? No? Neither
do I. He is the horrible "bad just to be bad" villain that we neither
sympathize for nor love to hate. He hints that his village was
destroyed by dragons, but their is no detail or backstory. And with his
village destroyed when he was a young boy, he somehow managed to take
control of an Alpha dragon that could squash him like a bug. Oh, and
this Alpha also has mind control powers. But it only works on other
dragons. Why? To drag the plot forward of course.The saving grace for the main characters was Hiccup's mother, Valka.
The reunion scenes, both with Hiccup and Stoick, were touching. Her
knowledge of dragons that she passes on to Hiccup is crucial. Her
dialog progresses the plot, adds drama, and her soft voice is a nice
break from the annoying banter of the other young adults. Combine Valka
with Hiccup and Toothless, and you get enjoyable scenes from the time
she is introduced to the end of the movie.As for the dynamic duo, they were a joy to watch for the entirety of
the movie. Their unbreakable bond and humorous arguing and character
progression was amazing. And the symbolism is even greater- at the end
of HTTYD 1, we see the bond of the due symbolized through Toothless'
clipped back wing and Hiccup's amputated leg. This connects them. By
the end of HTTYD 2, Toothless became the Alpha of his species and
Hiccup became the Chief of Burk. This shows that the are both capable
of individual achievements. Stoick passes away, yet stays with them in
spirit as seen when a statue of him is carved in a cliff. The list goes
on and on.Conclusion: They say that the sequel never beats the original; heart
and soul was poured into HTTYD 1, but HTTYD 2 got the remaining drops.
HTTYD 2 has a weak story, weak characters (besides the duo and Valka),
and is a real let down from the first movie. If you are expecting a
great continuation from the Masterpiece that is HTTYD 1, you will be
disappointed.
