1
Self-Serious Mess Filled With Bad Laughs

So I guess female vanity is some kind of dark magic and you see the
innocent virgin attracted to its glowing allure. As she is drawn into
it she meets a coven of witches: a passover, a wannabe and a sorceress
supreme, who all covet what she has. The passover wants to kill her,
the wannabe is jealous of her and the sorceress supreme who
occasionally turns into a wildcat attempts to seduce her, but, awake to
the power within her, the innocent virgin instead opens herself to her
destiny as the vessel of 'The Neon Demon'. The coven then kills her and
eats her flesh to gain for themselves the powers of 'The Neon Demon'.
Which is female vanity or the male gaze or some nebulous cloud of
similar tropes referenced in terms of fashion modelling. The bad laughs and eye-rolling material comes on early where our
innocent virgin hits all those on-the-nose beats about falling from
innocence in the big city. Speaking of 'beats', long expanses of the
film seem like the cinematography was only there to provide a light
show behind Carpenter-esque synth jamming. An example of this was a
heavily abstracted scene where our innocent virgin is finally possessed
by 'The Neon Demon'. I guess 'abstract' is the word for it. 'Stoner
planetarium laser show' would also suffice. Within the narrative
continuity, this possession is meant to have occurred when the innocent
virgin is given the star slot in a famous designer's runway show. One
is left with the suspicion that the filmmakers couldn't actually show
this happen in the context of an actual runway show because they didn't
have a clear idea of the reality of a runway show. The scenes
bookending the sequence feature some of the most self-serious and
unintentionally silly dialogue in the film. After her possession, the film takes a steep dive into very silly
territory. Our innocent virgin is presumably transformed now that she
has accepted 'Teh Power', but Elle Fanning has none of the startling
aesthetic presence attributed to her character either before or after.
We're just meant to recognize her unique and startling attractiveness
because it's written into the dialogue. By the foot of the second act,
audience credulity on this point is strained. There's a scene of the sorceress making out with a corpse, a ten minute
sequence of the witches washing the innocent virgin's blood off their
bodies in slo-mo under blue light while the sorceress, also covered in
blood and glitter, gazes on and one of the witches heaves for ten
minutes, in another ten-minute sequence of a character doing one thing,
before throwing up an eyeball. There's more goofy stuff after that.
There are a lot of party-bulb and blacklight shots which go on for way
to long. A lot of bad dialogue. It's not a good movie.
