3
If you believe you've seen it all, think again.

This movie is an abomination of plot holes, pure stupidity and genius.Unfortunately the genius is only viewable in the beautiful artwork done
for this movie, because indoor shots as well as outdoor shots are
breathtaking.Spoilers ahead.However, every character in the movie seems to have a death wish, if
they are not too busy poking holes in the plot wider than a train
tunnel.This movie is best watched either high on Krenole ( the industrial
waste people seem to be enjoying blowing away their brains with in
Snowpiecer, pun intended... ) or with a good portion of surreality,
because nothing in this movie is anywhere close to being made
intelligently.To people who say this is a movie criticizing our society: The only
thing that this movie portrays is an astounding stupidity on
everybody's part. Nothing deep or thoughtful happens in this movie.
NOTHING.You can read any review here on this movie scored 3 or lower and get
tons of good ideas on how to NOT DO A MOVIE, but for my own amusement I
will list my own top ten ( or twenty or more. You could basically do
this all day long ).1) No guard posts are set up, even though there is open rioting going
on. Oh, wait. I forgot about the new holiday policy on the train.2)The stupidity of having to control your population by having riots
killing off people regularly is... well, at least you save on condoms,
right? 3) After FIVE MINUTES of massacre in the tunnel literally everybody is
still alive and can call out for torch lights being carried Olympian
style through the entire length of the train, to arrive there five more
minutes later, to still find everybody intact and in fighting shape. Oh
and that torch obviously had babies on its way to the fray. Cute. 4) A full store cabin of foodstuff, yet not a single cart carrying
actual livestock. I am guessing the train is actually piggybacked on a
cattle trail. Made immune to cold. Yepp, sounds about right. Makes more
sense than the engine being a perpetual motion thing anyway. 5) Luring your enemies into your child's classroom, only for the
PREGNANT teacher drawing out an Uzi to assassinate them is PURE GENIUS!
I always knew teachers had a dark streak, much like clowns, and finally
giving them the chance to act on their frustrations... WELL DONE!6) Gilliam works from inside the tail section to instigate riots to
help the population control. So we are to believe that a guy gave his
arm to cannibalize on willingly to safe a baby in order to stick to a
lifetime of poverty and dirt in the tail section to regularly send
people to their death? Lolwut? Oh, wait, I forgot. Evereybody on this
train is a mental patient, so all is well and everybody is acting
normally, within their respective limits.7) I don't think I can do more than five. My eye is starting to twitch
nervously just thinking of writing more about this train wreck of a
movie.Overall the entire movie gives a lasting impression of a feverish dream
while being on a bad trip.And in the end, when everybody except two have killed them self off,
you see them meeting a polar bear in the Himalayas and you know
everything is going to be well: The polar bear will eat those two, too,
and finally the entire train of stupid has come to a halt. Thank you,
Mister Polar Bear. Well done!
