10
what on earth did i just watch?

i normally tend to stay away from romance movies, but at the same time
i cannot resist a good controversy, i looked into some reviews and the
people talking about the film said you must seek it out, it must be
seen, so i tracked down a cinema that was showing it, watched it and
WOW.frankly I have never seen anything quite like it. i understand that the
main topic of discussion is the sex scenes but we'll get to them in a
bit, but first a few things that I think need talking about first.this movies appears to have an agenda to create absolute realism, and
in my opinion, it achieves that agenda with a highly unusual level of
discipline, the directing, writing and acting combined created an
atmosphere that stopped it from feeling like a movie, it very quickly
feels like you are watching real people, the dialogue, facial
expressions and even the eye movements make the characters feel 100%
authentic, everything they do and say is absolutely how i think people
would behave in the situations they get into. they don't feel like
actors reciting lines, they feel like you are standing there with them,
listening in on their conversations.from what i remember, apart from the very end and over the credits,
there is no music, there is music playing on radios and over speakers
etc but apart from that there isn't much of a soundtrack, this assists
the feeling that you are actually there to a point where it's almost
breath taking. the camera work is fascinating, during scenes where
they're just talking, the way it moves and cuts away is almost
impossible for me to describe, it has a uniqueness to it that cannot be
summed up with words. This was the fastest three hours i have ever sat
through, i did not think this movie was too long at all, if they cut
any scene from it it would be ruined, the pacing really gives
Schindler's list, a prime example of expert pacing, a run for it's
money.there is an argument scene towards the end, and after 2 1/2 hours of
build up, a series of slightly unsettling scenes and an entrance from
almost nowhere, this argument left me shaking, it was so well acted, so
realistic and so superbly filmed, i have felt disturbed and anxious non
stop ever since. the realism is so well executed, it actually got me to
care for this relationship, this fictional relationship in a romance
movie that is nothing like your typical sappy, emotionally forced
rubbish from Hollywood, and i deeply cared about it, me? the guy who
laughed at Hostel?now for what you've all been waiting for, the sex scenesthey were kind of like the action scenes, they may seem mindless at
first but you wouldn't dare cut them out. they're explicit, yet not
pornographic, graphic but also necessary. i feel if these scenes were
any different the sense of realism every other scene created would have
been severely jeopardised. yes they are long and yes the camera
absolutely refuses to shy away from anything but at the same time, the
directing and acting succeeded in making them extremely realistic,
emotional and well crafted, and since we have already established that
realism was the main agenda, it's safe to assume that if they follow
realism, they did a good job. it did not look like i was watching two
actresses pretending to do it for money, it legitimately felt like i
was watching two people actually having sex, when a director can take
fake sex and make it feel more real than the real sex in movies like 9
songs, something has surely gone right somewhere.i know people have said that's not how lesbians have sex but let's at
least appreciate this as an attempt, they at least tried to get it as
realistic as they could even if it isn't how it's done in reality, they
at least tried. people complained that the sex scenes are too long,
but, they really aren't that much longer than most of the other non sex
scenes so having them any shorter would feel like a copout, if every
scene was long, they shouldn't make the sex scene shorter simply
because it's a sex scene. these scenes also did a good job at
generating emotion too, to me they didn't feel like sex scenes, they
felt like love scenes, the explicitness will almost certainly get to
some but i think the whole point of the graphic detail is to keep you
glued to the screen, it stops it from getting boring by use of a
combination of positive shock value and powerful emotion. some of the
things these girls get up to had me shocked and fascinated at the same
time, how on earth does a director tell actors to do that without being
awkward I asked myself.the sex is there as a side effect of there being a realistic
relationship, the relationship was graphic, so was the sex. it doesn't
feel like it wants to offend, just create a unique atmosphere rarely
seen in love stories these days, the fact that it's lesbians is
incidental and in no way exploitive. it's not pornography because porn
is fake, this felt real. if you like romance movies, long movies,
french movies, art house movies or are just curious about a few highly
talked about sex scenes, you should search it out and give it a go.I loved this movie for what it did to me, it took me to a place that
few movies have done and the effects of that journey are still being
felt today, it felt more than real, it was raw, beautiful, fearless and
completely Oscar worthy, and i don't mean that lightly.that being said don't let your parents see it whatever you do.
