8
"This is vehicular warfare."

I don't think many other franchises has been as turbulent and uneven as
The Fast and the Furious films. Things started off pretty earnestly
with Rob Cohen's first film, but quickly careened into odd directions,
with the ever-cheesy 2 Fast 2 Furious taking off and running with one
main character while leaving the other in the dust, and with Tokyo
Drift drifting away with totally different characters altogether.
Thankfully, Fast & Furious realigned the series with its roots. But it
wasn't until Fast Five when I really began to give a darn about this
series. Granted that all films have had their fun moments, the fifth
film magically tied in every single strand from every single film, and
made every single character relevant. Best of all, it did so with a
great sense of fun: it had great pacing, amusing comedy, great action,
and it made the characters stand out as a collectively outstanding
cast.So now Fast & Furious 6 has come out, reuniting the entire gang once
more to take on bigger stakes. The spectacle in this film tries its
best to be even bigger, more absurd, and more awesome than before: the
film is effectively book-ended with two massive action setpieces. The
first involves a decently destructive car chase in London, where the
villain effectively uses his custom-built ride to launch other cars all
over the place. The film's final act features a really crazy sequence
in which a tank roars across a highway, crushing other cars and blowing
up bridges. This all culminates with all the muscle cars banding
together to bring down a massive cargo plane in a fiery blaze of glory.
In between, the film slows down a bit, but there's frequent fist-fights
and pursuits, a few scenes of witty comedy, and there's one decent
car-racing scene.Whether or not you really dig this film may depend on how well you dig
the characters and all their dynamics. It definitely helps to watch and
understand the events of the first five films, because at this point,
they've all been through so much and changed so much; for a late-comer
like me, who never was invested in the characters until the last film,
it can be confusing to remember who was who and what their history was.
Fortunately, the film does insert some flashbacks and reminders for the
audience's benefit. If you are keeping up with things, then the film
will reward you with a cast of endearing and heartfelt characters, and
the film's plot generally revolves around their continuing struggles.
As far as the actual plot goes, it's pretty brainless and absurd
action-movie fodder, and there are plot holes to be found. However, the
film does have the merit of presenting a cast of villains to directly
oppose the cast of heroes, and the story pulls out a few surprising
twists.The film generally looks good, but many of the action scenes are
hectically shot and edited, and it can be hard to tell what's going on
in certain scenes. What you can see is awesome, but sometimes, it's
just aggravating. Acting is generally fun and enjoyable from the whole
cast. Writing gets the job done well enough. This production uses a
plethora of quality sets, props, and costumes, with loads of flashy
cars at its disposal, and some okay-looking special effects. This film
uses some cool hip rap and techno music, while the music score is
pretty cool (sounds a lot like Brian Tyler's work from Tokyo Drift,
which was one of my favorite soundtracks).Best recommended to fans of the series, especially if you've been
following the last few movies.4/5 (Entertainment: Good | Story: Pretty Good | Film: Pretty Good)
