8
an absorbing showcase of a man's extraordinary professionalism in the face of danger

Running at a lean and spry 96min, Clint Eastwood's Sully isn't so much
a clinical bio-pic in the traditional sense, but an absorbing showcase
of a man's extraordinary professionalism in the face of danger. On Thursday, January 15th, 2009, the world witnessed the "Miracle on
the Hudson" when Captain Chesley Sullenburger (Tom Hanks) glided his
disabled plane onto the frigid waters of the Hudson River, saving the
lives of all 155 aboard. However, even as Sully was being heralded by
the public and the media for his unprecedented feat of aviation skill,
an investigation was unfolding that threatened to destroy his
reputation and his career.Tom Hanks underplays Sullenburger but in so doing he brings out the
multi-layered human qualities in the man. This is about a man who has
42 years of flying experience and he knows the aircraft like it is the
back of his hand. Here is a man who does his job to the best of his
abilities and he does it well. He will tell you he is not a hero but
simply a man who is just doing his job. From a man with no time he
becomes the man of all time. However, he is shaken to his very core
when the doubts start to set in as the NTSB rips apart his heroic
maneuver. Is Sullenburger a hero or a fraud? The story rests on Tom Hank's abled shoulders who has built a
reputation playing understated and reluctant heroes in Bridge of Spies
and Captain Phillips. On first look Hank didn't seem to put on his
acting hat, but after a night of rumination his character continues to
stay with me. His sullenly insular and taciturn manner displays a fully
functioning problem-solver's mind, calculating the probability of
survival in that instance when the birds hit the plane engines. Thank
goodness he trusts his instincts rather than the computer. Hank isn't the only star in the story. At 86, Eastwood has meticulously
crafted an honest story we thought we already knew into a tense drama
with little bell and whistle. His unfazed skill in storytelling is
assured and Sully definitely belongs to the top tier of his pantheon of
good movies that include Unforgiven and Million Dollar Baby. In
Eastwood's hands, the film flies above the usual biopic tropes and it
feels like a homage to a modest man who rose to an extraordinary
occasion and a salute to professionalism. It is a wonder the story
doesn't carry an ounce of jingoism and it is a superb amalgam of the
loud and the silence and the human elements of a near air disaster. The final star is definitely the plane crash. For a home-theatre
enthusiast, the visuals and sonics are a feast for the senses. We get
to see the crash and its aftermath from every physical and emotional
angle. I can't remember the last time I see a reenactment of a plane
crash so visceral and real. This is the closest you will get to
experience one without actually being in one. I didn't care much for Eastwood's last directorial effort American
Sniper because it carried too many skull-numbing and blatant
embellishments, but with Sully he has redeemed himself. This may feel
like a straight-forward story but the use of Rashomon-resque plot
manipulation transcends the film above the usual biopics that you would
forget after a night's sleep. I didn't forget this one today.
