2
Hilariously Bad!

Visually, this film looked like it was trying to be a live action
version of the Disney animated feature, down to young Tarzan's
dreadlocks and Jane's yellow dress. This was easily the best thing the
film had going for it.If there were live animals used in this film, I missed them, because I
was so busy noticing how absolutely fake the CGI animals (and
vine-swinging Tarzan) looked. Even the single blue butterfly that
alighted on Jane's shoulder was obviously fake. At one point, even the
green lighting reflecting off the green screen used to shoot the film
is visible on Skarsgard and Samuel L Jackson.The villain, Rom, is comically bad. Showing the respect for religion
that has become fashionable in Hollywood, Rom constantly carries a
crucifix with him, made of spider silk and inexplicably strong. He uses
this not for prayer, but to choke victims (and Tarzan) as necessary.
There is of course a joke about priests and abuse, which will likely be
offensive to Catholics (I am not.)The motivation of the chieftain that deals with Rom to lure Tarzan back
to the jungle from London so that he can kill him is undeveloped and
secretive, until the end, at which point it is resolved rather easily.
You'd think that in years of knowing each other, Tarzan and the chief
would've had an opportunity to discuss their grievances with one
another, but apparently not.By my clock, it took an hour and 50 minutes to get to the first iconic
Tarzan yell, a wimpy holler that would've been better performed by
Carol Burnett. The yell is a trademark, and it was glaringly absent.Tarzan and his crew -- apes and men both -- swing through the trees in
several scenes that suddenly make similar moments in Indiana Jones and
the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull appear more believable. These were not
thrilling moments, but were comical and bad!In the movie's climactic scene, Tarzan -- who has nearly superhuman
strength -- is snared by Rom with his nearly unbreakable crucifix.
Unable to free himself with his hands, and somehow unable to fight off
the frail and thin Rom, Tarzan nearly passes out from lack of oxygen
until ... he SWALLOWS. This action, just enough extra muscle power from
a weakening Tarzan, is enough to break Rom's beads, and Tarzan is
suddenly free and able to fight! I laughed out loud! Tarzan, one would think, would make short work of Rom thereafter, but
this is no Johnny Wisemuller Tarzan, and there are not moral lessons to
be learned. Instead, Rom is left to the aggressive CGI crocodiles, who
deliver the death bites.There's simply nothing redeeming about this film, and the story,
special effects, plot, writing, and acting are all second rate. The
title, the Legend of Tarzan is at least appropriate, because the laughs
are legendary. It's unfortunate that Mystery Science Theatre 3000 is no
longer in production, because this film is ripe for ribbing by that
crew.
