5
Atmospheric inner city coming of age story has major third act problems

Moonlight represents the end product of a collaboration between Barry
Jenkins who wrote the screenplay based on a play by Tarell Alvin
McCraney. It has an amazing score of "99" on Metacritic, with the
lowest score being "63." When I saw this score my immediate reaction
was that this film is no "99." It's a lot closer to that "63," a score
attributed to a review put out by Slant Magazine.Moonlight is divided into three segments, first focusing on a young
African-American boy named Chiron (whose nickname is "Little" in the
first segment). When we first meet Little, he's run away from home,
alienated from his crack-addicted, abusive mother, Paula. A crack
dealer named Juan discovers Little inside an abandoned motel and after
learning he's been the victim of bullies, he brings him to the home of
his girlfriend, Theresa. Little is mute until he opens up the next
morning and tells the couple where he lives. Juan eventually forms a relationship with Little, acting as a mentor,
despite hostility from the boy's mother. Unfortunately, Juan plays no
part in the rest of the film and we eventually learn in the last
segment that he's no longer alive. Despite the lugubrious pacing,
Moonlight chronicles the tragedy of how drugs can play such a ruinous
part in the lives of African-American men and women, residing in the
inner city.Just at the right moment, Jenkins introduces Chiron as a teenager in
the second segment. Here he is referred to by his true name. The
withdrawn child is now a withdrawn teenager who is still coping with
his crackhead of a mother and is taunted by other teens who regard him
as not only passive but possibly homosexual. Jenkins isn't afraid to
chronicle additional problems in the African-American community,
especially the scourge of bullying. The story becomes more interesting when Chiron hooks up with his old
childhood friend, Kevin, who leads him to a homosexual encounter on the
beach. There's more drama when Kevin participates in a hazing ritual,
betraying Chiron by slugging him a number of times in the face, at the
behest of the usual suspects of high school bullies. When Chiron
smashes a chair over the bully in front of his high school class, he's
taken away by the police and placed in a juvenile detention center.The third segment focuses on Chiron ten years later—he goes by the name
of "Black," an appellation given to him by Kevin when he was in high
school. Jenkins makes the mistake of casting the older Chiron with an
actor who doesn't resemble the younger high school student Chiron, at
all. We find out next to nothing about the older Chiron, except that
he's now a hardened drug dealer living in Atlanta.After getting a phone call from Kevin, who now works as a cook in
Miami, Black goes to visit him there. He first visits his mother who is
now a resident at a nursing home and begs his forgiveness for her
earlier deleterious behavior. Naomie Harris does a fine job as the
repentant mother and the son hugs her, still acknowledging their bond.Once Black walks into the small restaurant where Kevin now works, the
story is virtually over. You can guess what happens next: Black
acknowledges that he's been alone since their encounter in high
school—and he agrees to send the night with Kevin, who still has
feelings for him, despite having a child with a woman from whom he is
now separated.Moonlight really runs out of gas in the third act, as Black (Chiron)
remains a completely underdeveloped character. The reconciliation,
highlighted by tender feelings between two men, is simply not enough to
bring the story to a fitful conclusion. Jenkins' final 30 minutes is
dragged out where there are no surprises. Moonlight has quite a bit of
atmosphere (particularly in the first two acts) and some raw
performances (particularly by the child actors), but ultimately the
denouement was not thought out clearly enough to pass muster as a film
rated almost 100 by an overwhelming majority of major film critics.
