7
TMNT, Out Of The Shadows: "Turtle Power!"

Rating: 7.0, Good Movie*2014's Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (6.0), was a major disappointment
to both fans and critics alike. However its sequel is superior in every
dimension. The movie truly lives up to its production as director Dave
Green and producer Michael Bay took the leap to introduce crazy
characters that are true to the turtle's universe. Although its plot is
predictable and its themes are mediocre, its characters, humour and
action are sufficient enough to carry the movie's downfalls. *Characters: - Turtles: All four of the turtles play their characters
symmetrical to their sewer comic origins, with all four brothers
understanding each others strengths and weaknesses in the situation
they encounter. Put simply 'Leonardo leads, Donatello does machines,
Raphael is cool but rude and well Michaelangelo is a party dude!' -
April O'Neil: I see Megan Fox as a sexy but poor actress, however I've
observed that in both TMNT movies she has put in the effort to play her
character with passion, and for that I am proud. - Casey Jones: Stephen
Amell is The Green Arrow, however he does not apply his full talent
towards his character, Casey Jones. But overall he was as good as
hockey as he is at archery. - Shredder: He might look like the Shredder
and not a transformer... but he has no menacing expression to deliver
both his audience and fellow characters. - Krang: Although his design
is great and his plans are diabolical he acts more like a joke than a
conquer. - Bebop and Rocksteady: The Rammed It Up! Enough Said. TY! -
Vern: ... Funny but stupid...* The movie's plot is rather similar to the TMNT movie Secret Of The
Ooze (6.3), however it involves many plot holes. Where was Erik Sacks?
How many mutagens have been made? And why is Tyler Perry, Baxter
Stockman?! But overall is was a more enjoyable adventure compared to
its predecessor, I mean I'm still bugged Splinter taught ninjitsu from
a book... However it does establish the themes of isolation and
identity, although it is mildly touched on.* Overall its a movie for the fans, and an average cartoon episode for
the critics. But at the end of the day, we watch movies for one
purpose... entertainment. And TMNT, Out Of The Shadows delivers it like
a pizza delivery.Again, Please Check Out My Lists And Ratings At riyork2! I hope this
review was a valuable source dudes!
