9
"And the Best Supporting Actor Oscar goes to... Mark Rylance"

There are combinations of film makers that make you confident, as you
pay your ticket price, that you are not going to be terribly
disappointed: Steven Spielberg directing; Tom Hanks taking the lead;
Janusz Kaminski behind the camera; Michael Kahn editing and a Coen
brothers script (with Matt Charmon (Suite Française)). And Bridge of
Spies doesn't disappoint, particularly for someone of my more advanced
years (I was born the year following the film's climatic events) who
remembers well the terror of potential nuclear catastrophe that hung
over the world through the 60's and 70's.In a story based on true events, Hanks plays James Donovan (diverging
somewhat from reality here) as an insurance lawyer dragged by his firm
into defending Rudolf Abel, the accused Soviet spy played exquisitely
by British stage acting legend Mark Rylance. Against this backdrop, the
international blue touch paper is about to be lit by the shooting down
over Russia of Gary Powers (Austin Stowell from "Whiplash") in his U-2
spy plane (sorry – "article"). Donovan becomes instrumental in
unofficially negotiating on behalf of the US government the release of
Powers in East Berlin. The deal is jeopardized by his boy-scout
tendencies to also want to help another US captive Frederic Pryor (Will
Rogers).I've read some negative reviews of this film in the papers that made me
quite cross, describing it as "yawnsome" and "sanctimoniously dull".
For me, nothing could be further from the truth and the packed Saturday
night audience I saw this with seemed equally gripped from beginning to
end, silent save for the odd laugh where some appropriate humor is
weaved into the story.Tom Hanks is solid and believable as the fish-out-of-water lawyer,
albeit that the role is played with a large spoonful of patriotic
American sugar as Donovan trumpets about the importance of the
constitution over the lynch-mob mentality of the general public. Alan
Alda – great to see again on the big screen – channels his best
Hawkeye-style exasperation as Donovan's boss, looking for a clean and
quick conviction.But it is Mark Rylance – an irregular player in movies, and due to
appear again in next year's "BFG" – who shines out as the acting star
of the film. His salubrious and calm turn as the cornered spy just
reeks of class and if he isn't nominated for a Best Supporting Actor
nomination for this then there is no justice. (A special 'casting
recognition award' to my wife Sue for spotting that the actress playing
Judge Byer's wife – Le Clanché du Rand – was Meg Ryan's mother in
Sleepless in Seattle 22 years ago!) The cinematography is superb with some gorgeous tracking shots and
framed scenes. Most outstanding of all is the scene depicting the
traumatic construction of the Berlin wall – long tracking shots in
greys and blues delivering a truly breathtaking piece of cinema. In
general I'd give a big shout-out to both the art department and the
special effects team in making the desolation of East Berlin feel so
real. It makes the similar scenes, that I commented positively on in
the recent "Man from U.N.C.L.E." seem like an amateur school
production.The special effects team also contribute in making the shooting down of
the U-2 a thrilling piece of cinema.Music is sparingly and effectively used by Thomas Newman, and it can be
no greater complement to the composer than that I was wondering until
the end titles as to whether it was another Spielberg/ John Williams
collaboration or not.A great film, one of my favorites this year. Highly recommended,
especially if you are over 50. You should also get out to a cinema to
see this one – it will be far more effective on the big screen than the
small one.(Please visit http://bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical version of
this review. Thanks.)
