8
As Dwight Shrute would say: Good, not Great

*MILD SPOILER ALERT FOR X-MEN: DAYS OF FUTURE PAST* X-Men: Apocalypse
is directed by X-men veteran Bryan Singer, and co-written by Simon
Kinberg (as well as Singer himself) and stars James McAvoy, Michael
Fassbender, Oscar Isaac, and Hugh Jackman for 4 minutes (no,
seriously). The film takes place in an alternate timeline created after
the events of Days of Future Past, with the ripples of Wolverine
burning the Gray's Sports Almanac and changing the course of history.
This causes major retcons to other films in the continuity (looking at
you Wolverine: Origins) as the 1980's setting is the picturesque
backdrop for the conflict between the Mutants and humans. Confusion to
the timeline aside, this film on paper is a slightly superior film to
Days of Future Past, but in execution (while a good film) is lacking.
The characters were engaging, but the trailers much like Avengers: Age
of Ultron pitched a different film. While not as disappointing as
Ultron was, it does have similar pitfalls and does falter. If you are a
fan of the previous X-men films (except 3 and Wolverine: Origins. Those
movies don't exist and they're also horrible) and as long as you
monitor your expectations, you will enjoy this film. During the time of
civil expansion in Egypt, En-Sabah-Nur (Apocalypse, also I have no idea
how I know to spell that off by heart) is the first Mutant of his kind.
He has built an empire and is seen as a god, but he is not immortal. He
seeks out means to treat his lifespan, but during that time, there is a
coup to overthrow and kill the false god, and in the process he is
imprisoned in a collapsed pyramid forced into a several millennia long
slumber (cue the title sequence) waiting to regain his strength and
retake what is his. Since this is an alternate timeline, and the later
X-men films take place in the not too distant future, let's assume that
Apocalypse didn't recover. So, because of "time travel" the ripple
created a timeline where Apocalypse will roam free (I'm really getting
tired of typing the word "Time"). After the events of Days of Future
Past, Magneto has shed his old identity, started a new life, Charles
Xavier has reopened the X-mansion, and Mystique is on a crusade to
liberate mutants all at the same time Apocalypse indoctrinates mutants
as he calls them "The Four Horsemen" in efforts of bringing about
god-like proportions of destruction (MASS HYSTERIA). The film is shot
extremely well, with good cinematography, good use of costume design,
soundtrack, score, make-up, time-period and everything seems well
realized. The film is written to an acceptable degree, with a fantastic
arch for Magneto, an interesting arch for Charles and Mystique, and a
good arch for Jean Grey. Tye Sheridan and Sophie Turner really shine as
a young Cyclops and Jean Grey, giving a believable relationship. All of
the newcomers do give stellar performances (although one is stoic in
particular) Storm, Angel, Nightcrawler and a serviceable portrayal of
Psylocke. Oscar Isaac does an acceptable job as Apocalypse, but he
wasn't as developed or menacing as I would have hoped, and the same can
be said for the four horsemen (Psylocke, Storm, Angel, and excluding
one character since their arch is good) especially with the context and
history of the characters, (I know that you can't cram that much lore
into 2 hours *cough* Batman V. Superman) there could have been some
exploration of the characters and their relationship with Apocalypse.
For example, Storm in the comics was homeless, a gutterpunk and saw
that her abilities made her a goddess. The relationship that she could
have had with Apocalypse, a fountain of seemingly unlimited power could
have been interesting. Or Jean Grey; her conflict of controlling her
power, and how someone like Apocalypse would affect her. The best
aspects of the film are the characters of Charles Xavier, Mystique,
Magneto, Quicksilver and Jean Grey with all of their archs being
interesting, but also takes a long time to resolve them. There is
growth in these characters, and visual progression, but it takes a long
time for them to get fully realized. Quite possibly the best scene in
the film is the "Quicksilver" Sequence (similar to DOFP) but perfected
and dominates the previous. I will not spoil what song is used during
the sequence but it is a good choice. X-men: Apocalypse is a good movie
with great moments, but a few flaws. But those do not allocate into a
great film, as the flaws are too noticeable to hold it back. This is
not a bad film, and should not be compared to the likes of any other
superhero franchise, since it has a different formula. It is not
Captain America: Civil War, or Batman V. Superman. It is a FOX owned
Marvel property, and not Disney nor DC. The key to enjoying this film
is to manage expectations. To look for how the film is interesting,
such as parallels it makes to other films (it makes an interesting
parallel to Return of the Jedi) and the biggest thing lacking in this
film is risk. With an altered timeline, one would assume that the
future is set in stone, so that for the most part the characters would
be safe and that the world would not end, and while that does take away
some of the weight of the climax, there is still risk as some
characters do die in the process. Apparently there will be an extended
cut on the home video release, which is something that I am looking
forward to exploring. This is a good film. With good character, a few
shoehorned Easter eggs (seriously, Wolverine?) an interesting setup for
the future, and some depth. It may not blow your mind, but it won't
disappoint too much. Just don't expect Days of Future Past. Or X-men 3.
A good movie: 7.5/10
