6
Love that dirty water

Greetings again from the darkness. It might seem peculiar for the
director of the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise, The Lone Ranger,
and the Oscar winning animated Rango to be the driving force behind an
atmospheric Gothic mystery-thriller, but Gore Verbinski seems to ignore
any attempt to generalize or label his films. In fact, this latest film
(written with Justin Haythe) attempts to challenge genre conventions by
cloaking us in familiar themes and expecting us to be surprised by the
late twist.Dane DeHaan has established himself as an actor with no boundaries. He
has played characters as diverse as James Dean in LIFE, and Cricket in
LAWLESS. This time he dons a business suit as Lockhart, an ambitious,
young, morally flexible, workaholic financial hotshot. By bending a few
FCC regs, Lockhart has maneuvered himself into a plush corner office on
Wall Street, and is now strong-armed by senior management into taking
on the less-than-appealing task of traveling to a "wellness spa" in
Switzerland in order to bring back the CEO whose signature is necessary
to complete a lucrative merger.The cinematography of Bojan Bazelli is gorgeous throughout, and it's
literally breathtaking as we view the Manhattan cityscape, and then
follow Lockhart's train streaming through the Swiss Alps mountains and
tunnels. These are the "wow" shots, but the camera finds beauty even
once the story takes us inside the sanitarium with the dark history …
and confounding present. The building's history seems somewhat
sinister, but its current day secrets are every bit as creepy. What
exactly is the sickness that "the cure" is treating? Why does no one
ever leave? What's with the eels? What's with the water? Why are teeth
falling out? Why are the townfolks so off-put by those on the hill?
What answers do the puzzles bring? SHUTTER ISLAND offers the most
obvious comparison with its similar tone and atmosphere, but others
that come to mind include THE ISLAND OF DR. MOREAU, ONE FLEW OVER THE
CUCKOO'S NEST, and especially, Hitchock's REBECCA. Verbinski makes
marvelous use of sound throughout – whether it's Lockhart's creaking
crutches, the squeak of doors, the drip of ever-present water, or the
metallic whir of machines. The look, sound, and feel create the tension
necessary to prevent viewers from ever really relaxing, even if we wish
the movie wasn't so darn long.Filmed at Castle Hohenzollern in Germany, it's a perfect example of how
on filming on location adds an element that no soundstage can hope to
achieve. Support work comes from some familiar faces like Jason Isaacs
as Dr. Volmer, Celia Imrie, Carl Lumbly, Ivo Nandi, Harry Groener, and
Adrian Schiller. However, it's Mia Goth (Everest, 2015) who has the
biggest impact on screen outside of DeHaan. Her unusual look and
slightly-off mannerisms are perfect for the role of Hannah, who is so
crucial to the twist.Spanning two-and-a-half hours, the film abruptly flies off the rails in
the final 15 minutes. It acts as a release for the stress it has
caused, and as a reminder that director Verbinski likes to have fun
with his films. It's quite possible that the film will struggle
initially to find an audience, but later find success as a cult
favorite and/or midnight movie. Whether you deem it silly or creepy,
love it or hate it, you'll likely appreciate the look of the film and
the creative surge of Verbinski. At a minimum, it will generate some
talk about Big Pharma and how we seem to always be searching for a
"cure" of the latest societal ailment … or you may just have nightmares
about eels in your bathtub!
