5
Daddy Complex of the Stereotypes

Wrath of the Titans (1:39, PG-13, 3-D) — 5 — fantasy: sword & sorcery,
biggie, sequelHere, in response to no obvious demand, we have Sequel of the Titans.
What follows is less a coherent review than a collection of
observations.(1) The plural is misleading. There's only 1 titan, Cronos, and he's
off-screen for 90% of the film. He's been imprisoned in Tartarus for
eons, which explains why he's wrathful. What is never satisfactorily
explained (or even addressed) was how this mountain-sized lava monster
ever procreated, since he's supposed to be the father of much smaller
and more human-like gods like feuding brothers Zeus, Poseidon, and
Hades.(2) Don't go in with any pre-conceived ideas based on actual Greek
mythology. It's a 2011 story featuring characters left over from 2010's
Clash of the Titans.(3) Warner Bros. threw a lot of money at this, and most of it shows up
on the screen.(4) It's pretty much non-stop fighting (vs. chimeras, cyclopes, a
minotaur, and assorted gods and demigods), not entirely at the frenetic
pace of Transformers, where things are flying by too fast to figure out
who's doing what to whom, but too much so for my taste.(5) The story is not going to win any Pulitzers, Nobels, or Hugos, but
it's not entirely predictable, and anything that contemplates the total
extinction of the gods gets a big plus from me.(6) Despite having some pretty good actors in here (Liam Neeson, Ralph
Fiennes, Bill Nighy, Danny Huston, and, yes, Sam Worthington), they
don't really get much chance to practice their craft, but they're not
just phoning it in, either.(7) Based on the damage he absorbed, Perseus should have been dead or
permanently crippled on over a dozen occasions. Absence of credible
consequences makes it difficult to establish serious threats or build
suspense.(8) Psychologists who are fixated on the idea of daddy complexes will
love this. Normal people will spend a lot of time rolling their eyes.(9) Rosamund Pike is along for the ride as Queen Andromeda, and she
gets in a few licks, but mainly she cleans up real good.(10) I'm fonder of 3-D than most, so FWIW I thot it was put to good use
here in the swooping shots thru the burning villages, labyrinth, and
pits of hell. Mercifully, no pokey-outy sharp things, but I had to duck
the occasional flaming boulder.(11) This will not tax your intellect, but it's a well-paced,
semi-interesting, action-packed ludicrously unbelievable adventure.
They could have done worse, and so could you.
