8
Under-appreciated by the hypercritical.

We live in a society that assumes being overcritical means showing a
display of intelligence. Don't let this film be tarnished by that fad.I will do my best to make this short and sweet. (Probably not)READ: (For those who HAVEN'T seen the original films)This film is a fantastic example of a film that is complex yet simple.
I expected the worst from the film and I received more. I won't lie to
you and tell you this film is on par with something like The Matrix
(the original was) but it is well worth seeing and stands out as
unique. We all know that's nearly impossible to do these days. Please
take this into consideration and go to see the film with no
expectations. You'll be surprised that way.READ: (For those who HAVE seen the original films)I'm sorry this film wasn't everything we dreamed it would be, but can
we honestly act surprised when Hollywood screenwriters avoid immensely
complex story arches? They have simplified this story for the masses in
the same way The Lord of the Rings was simplified for the masses. If
you spend your time comparing this film with the originals you will
come up short, every time. This is NOT the original film, this is its
own film that you need to appreciate as it stands (I know that is
difficult, believe me). If you haven't already seen it, please take my
word for it and go in with no expectations, go in cold (like it is a
new experience). (Final Comments)I take user reviews to heart for movies. I appreciate the opinions of
the people more than I appreciate the opinions of the paid critics.
Seeing a 6.9 as the current user score (as of March 31st) is
unfortunate, because this film captures EVERYTHING that Ghost in the
Shell was and thanks to this film IS CURRENTLY. As a film it stands
strong in the Sci-Fi genre and does manage to still be
thought-provoking. Please consider taking your time before giving it a
low rating. Understand that the talents that put this film together adopted this
baby from its original developers and they did NOT destroy it, as some
over-exaggerators may proclaim. "The Last Airbender" - THAT is an
example of something being destroyed. GHOST IN THE SHELL stands still
intact. Of course it isn't as fleshed out and philosophical as the
original film (which paid an immaculate amount of attention to detail
and information) but it DOES live in the same world and it DOES tell
the same story. I promise you that if it HAD stayed completely with the
script of the animated film, it would be getting attacked for being an
unnecessary remake or overly complicated.I've given this an 8 out of 10 because I see 6 as mediocre and 10 as a
perfect film. 8 is somewhere in between. I do not believe this is the
best adaption or sci-fi film I've seen, but it was enjoyable and much
pain-staking work was put into it... that shows when you watch it.
Don't be entirely emotional about the way you view this movie. Watch it
for what it is, not what it is in comparison.Thank you for reading, I appreciate it. Take the time to see this movie
and take your time before rating it. Really chew on it first, because
it deserves better than it is receiving.
