9
A taut thriller that never becomes too theatrical for its own good

The only more underserved genre for moviegoers besides serious adult
comedies/dramas or immersing fantasies are the classic thriller. The
last truly marvelous, slick thriller that graced multiplexes nationwide
was "Prisoners," an unnerving mystery revolving around the kidnapping
of two young girls, with one father going to desperate lengths to find
them. Since then, marginally passable films like "No Good Deed" have
stumbled into theaters but never left the kind of imprint on audiences
that has them genuinely consumed with fear and uncertainty thanks to
the slickness of a film.Joel Edgerton's directorial debut "The Gift" is the first thriller that
will leave an imprint on its viewers in a long time for more reasons
than its rich cinematography and expertly paced narrative. It's the
kind of film that gets one to look introspectively at the wrongs
they've committed, in this case, in school, where perhaps a rumor you
helped spread, or even started, went on to scar the victim for life.
Perhaps if you helped spread said rumor, you've moved on, but what if
the person you hurt hasn't forgotten the pain and torment your little
white lie caused? "The Gift" examines the idea of an unburied hatchet by focusing on the
young married couple of Simon and Robyn (Jason Bateman and Rebecca
Hall). They've just moved into a beautiful, spacious home, with Simon
finding tremendous success with the company he works for and Robyn
coming to terms with her anxiety and her addiction to prescription
medication. Hoping to start life a new, they are thrown for a loop when
they meet a man named Gordon (nicknamed "Gordo," played by Edgerton) at
a home-appliance store. Gordo is an old classmate of Simon, who barely
recognizes him, yet still, upon even a brief conversation, recalls he's
still four tires short of a car.Gordo repeatedly makes kind, yet invasive gestures towards Simon and
Robyn, delivering wine, bringing fishes to fill their small pond out
front, and stopping by while Robyn is home alone to keep her company.
While Robyn sees a sensitive, somewhat lost soul in Gordo, Simon sees
nothing but a creep - a persistent creep that has something to prove or
uncover about him that Simon doesn't want revealed. Eventually, when
Gordo's actions turn particularly personal and an apology on his part
is warranted, Simon and Robyn receive a letter asking for "bygones to
be bygones" for something that occurred in the past, to which only
Robyn is left clueless.The performances here are unanimously strong, particularly from
Bateman, who gives one of his only very serious roles to date here.
Bateman even delivers a powerful monologue before his costar, Hall, who
also does some good work as a troubled woman simply wanting peace of
mind, concerning the "winners and losers" of America and how people are
only held back by personal insecurities and events of the past because
they choose to be. His delivery and conviction here is very strong, as
he deadlocks his eyes into Hall and digs into her, himself, and
everything that occurred in the past in one great scene.Edgerton, however, has the real challenging role - playing a guy who
can look sweet and nimble, almost neighborly, but also a bit off and
maybe even a little unstable. Edgerton's blank facial expressions find
ways to be amiable, despite his behavior being increasingly troubling,
almost too kind, and the character he creates for himself is one you
struggle to find exactly what's bad about him when "too nice" doesn't
seem to cut it.Yet Edgerton's craft here is something to really marvel at. Serving as
the writer, director, and co-producer, "The Gift" is essentially his
playground and, in turn, he creates a thrilling funhouse of
Hitchcockian principles and truly absorbing fear. Drenched in dingy,
saturated cinematography, casting a moody light on nearly every scene,
"The Gift"'s atmosphere (thanks to cinematographer Eduard Grau) is a
richly detailed one. The eeriness is very even and understated, and the
fright aspect sneaks up on you like the potentially deeper meaning of a
kind neighbor's gesture. This is a beautiful film in terms of its look
and feel, constantly feeling like its toying with your emotions.Finally, there's the narrative structure, which is very unlike
Hollywood. Unlike more conventional thrillers, like "No Good Deed,"
"The Gift" doesn't really have that incredulous, explosive moment,
where everything you thought wouldn't happen does and the plausibility
gets sacrificed for theatrics. Sure, there are some great twists,
including one that goes further than I ever expected this film to go,
but never is there that one moment where every ostensibly implausible
thing occurs that effectively derails the entire project in terms of
tone and pacing. "The Gift" remains consistent in creating a feeling of
dread, even when the tables turn and the protagonist and antagonist
lines are blurred.At the end of the day, however, Edgerton is the real star here. Proving
himself a competent do-all man and not just a gimmicky
actor-turned-director, he molds "The Gift" to his liking and asserts
himself not only as a strong lover of thrillers and Hitchcockian
principles but an actor who can also say, "sit back and watch" when he
goes to do something and actually do it correctly.
