7
"Cult of Chucky"- A slick sequel that rewards longtime fans and takes many fascinating risks... though it's unorthodox story and noticeably low budget may turn off some.

For near thirty years now, good-ole' Chucky the killer doll has been
terrorizing audiences the world over with his killer antics and twisted
gallows humor. He's an indisputable horror icon, so it was never any
surprise that even after a prolonged absence starting in 2004, he would
eventually re-emerge. And that he did with 2013's surprisingly
accomplished franchise-revival "Curse of Chucky"- a fiendish chapter
that won back many of the fans whom had drifted from the series.
"Curse" reinvigorated the character and the story, and reminded fans of
just why they fell in love with that delightfully demented doll in the
first place.And while it took four long years of waiting, our anticipation for a
follow-up to "Curse" has finally been answered with director Don
Mancini's "Cult of Chucky", the seventh film in the "Child's Play"
story. And while "Cult" did receive a warm reception from both general
and horror film critics, with plenty of positive buzz built from a
successful festival stint... the public unfortunately hasn't been so
kind, with it having polarized viewers into either "love it" or "hate
it" camps, with no in-between.And that really is a shame, because as a fan of this series for many
years, I though "Cult of Chucky" was a slick, stylish and incredibly
enjoyable installment that only furthered my appetite for future
follow-ups. While it definitely does lack the inherent freshness that
permeated from "Curse of Chucky", "Cult" is a very organic extension of
that film's mood and tone, and builds off of it very well... all while
also managing to organically re-introduce some of the more fantastical
and comedic elements of the series. It's a good mixture that balances
the best of both worlds, while furthering the series narrative in
strangely unique and risky ways. Sure, it does fall back on clichés a
bit too often and it does have some issues with tone and pace, but
honestly... I really had a blast with it!Four years later. Chucky's original mark Andy Barclay (Alex Vincent) is
still suffering the ramifications of his past, while his most recent
target Nica (Fiona Dourif) has spend the past few years cooped up in an
insane-asylum, blamed for the death of her family. After convincing
herself that she was responsible and that Chucky was merely a figment
of her imagination, Nica is transferred to a medium-security facility
in an attempt to be rehabilitated. However, things take a dark turn
when the head therapist introduces an interesting new therapeutic
"device" to assist in Nica's aid... a Good-Guy doll. Shortly after,
another startling turn happens when a certain bride of a certain killer
doll (Jennifer Tilly) drops off a yet another Good-Guy doll to Nica.
Which doll is just a doll? And which could possibly hold the soul of
the serial killer Charles Lee Ray? And how can Chucky even be there
when Andy seemingly has his still- living disembodied head? These
questions will lead to a series of startling revelations that will
leave Nica and Andy questioning their sanity as a game of torture and
death plays out around them..."Cult of Chucky" is at its best when it dives full-blown into the
insane and deranged madness we've come to expect from these films. And
thankfully, these moments do come quickly and consistently after the
end of the first act. Writer/director Mancini relishes in piling on
questions, mysterious and plenty of twists and turns that will leave
the viewer constantly on edge and unable to quite work out what's
happening. And it provides a lot of great entertainment value. The fact
is, for a low-budget, direct-to-video follow up that is the seventh
installment in a decades-old slasher film franchise... this is pretty
darned decent, and it's clear a lot of love and care has been placed
into the film by all involved. I also was quite taken with Mancini's
keen visual eye for flow, composition and design. This is a gorgeous
looking film. This only made all the better by the consistently good performances.
Particularly of note is Fiona Dourif, who continues to play Nica to
perfection and has made her possibly the most likable lead of the
series. She truly is a remarkable actress, and I hope to see her get
more recognition in the future. It's also great fun to hear our
friend-till-the-end Brad Dourif once again as the voice of Chucky. He
continues to own the role and you can tell from his voice that he's
having a blast. And of course, the delightful scenery-chewing Jennifer
Tilly is back once again and with some more screen-time to boot. Tilly
has added a lot to the franchise, so she's always a big plus for me.Unfortunately, I can't help but admit the flaws here, and they do bring
the movie down a few pegs. The budget is noticeably low, and the movie
does at times have a sort-of cheap feeling to it that can take you out
of the film. They're trying to do so much with so little, and it
doesn't always work. The first act is a huge drag following a rather
brilliant opening, and it feels very patchy and thrown together in
comparison to the better- structured "Curse." And yeah... the movie
does rely a bit too much on the old tropes and clichés, particularly
early on. It makes the first half- hour or so a chore to sit through.
Thankfully, by the midway point, it course-corrects, and the rest of
the film is pure horror bliss."Cult of Chucky" might not quite be the breath of fresh air that its
immediate predecessor was... but it's a very slick and entertaining
follow-up that should please most longtime series fans and leave you
wanting more. I'm gonna give it a pretty good 7 out of 10 as a fan of
the series, and I would definitely recommend giving it a shot with an
open mind. It's not perfect... but it's incredibly enjoyable.
