9
A very good watch, especially for the acting and the direction. Loved the chemistry between Chris Evans and Mckenna Grace.

Great movie to watch. I loved the chemistry between Chris Evans and
Mckenna Grace. Something to watch out. The direction is great and the
story very much moving. Story (8/10): Mary is a gifted child who is way above her biological
age. She solves complex math problems and provides expert views on
politics. However, her late mother's brother, Frank, is determined to
give her a normal life like every other kid. However there is as much
he can hide from the world, especially her school. Eventually, it turns
into a courtroom battle of Mary's custody between Frank and his mother,
Mary's grandmother, Evelyn, who wants to have her in top schools for
gifted in the country and solve some of the all time great problems in
mathematics. In the midst of all this, there is a secret kept safe
around Mary's mother's death. While the plot isn't so powerful, the
script was very well written which is why the movie was gripping and
managed to keep audience's attention. I loved the character sketch of
Mary and Evelyn in particular - very assertive, except that Mary had
more subtlety instead of visible aggression. Acting (9/10): Chris Evans is great in the role of Frank. His brilliant
chemistry with Mckenna Grace is perhaps the reason the movie was so
enjoyable. Mckenna Grace had definitely tough role playing a gifted
child with all the jargons. However, the raw naughtiness she was able
to project just normal to any child of her age brought a lot of life to
her role. Lindsay Duncan was good too - reminded me of Leonard's mother
from BBT. This was only the second movie of Octavia Spencer I've
watched and she was good again even in a limited role. She made her
presence felt strongly in the movie even with two other leading ladies
more closely related to the protagonists. Overall, the movie had some
very good performances to watch out for. Direction (9/10): Marc Webb elevated an average story into an excellent
cinema. His projection of the artistic side (right brain) of an
otherwise math genius (left brain) was great and something to take away
from the movie. The humor kept the movie light and fun to watch. I
loved the way the relationship of Frank and Mary was projected. Some of
the scenes, like the hospital one, were beautifully conceptualized and
executed. Overall (9/10): Overall, it's a very good watch, especially for the
acting and the direction. Even though it's a drama but still not heavy.
