8
Mark Duplass Delivers Again

Oh man. I loved this movie so much. I'll admit that I will watch
anything with Mark Duplass's name on it, whether he is acting or
directing (he was not only one of two main characters in this movie but
he helped write it with his co-star, Patrick Brice, and they improvised
a large portion of the movie as well, which makes it extra impressive).Mark Duplass, for me, was instantly likable in this movie. You know the
movie is going to take some kind of dark turn, but you honestly expect
it will be anything but him — he is so open, warm, and genuine. There
are some pretty funny moments that aren't really particularly humorous
but you can't help but laugh at his raw enthusiasm. Honestly, I know he
was intended to be the main character, but I thought Brice's role was
weak in comparison. He had his moments, for sure, but overall he was
forgettable next to Duplass.You start getting hints of Duplass's character, Josef, being a bit off
almost immediately, and you want to just ignore it at first — tell
yourself he's just an eccentric, rich dude — until you absolutely can't
anymore. His unraveling is pretty disturbing to witness — with some
serious second-hand embarrassment and uncomfortability at times — and
he has some truly creepy moments (him guarding the door with the
Peachfuzz mask on comes to mind, with his slow nod at the end…
*shudder*).Once Aaron (Brice's character) escapes, we then get to experience some
pretty impressive dread and more second-hand awfulness as we watch him
be stalked by Josef… ooof. The thought of someone creeping around the
outside of my house, peeking in the windows, keeping track of what I'm
doing… always SO unnerving. Josef then preys on Aaron's obvious
humanity and compassion for a pretty shocking ending, and hearing Josef
talking to the camera afterwards is chilling, to be honest.Ultimately, like I said, I loved it. It was technically a "found
footage" style movie, but I feel like you don't notice it as much as
you do with others since there's a) no running through the woods at
night with the camera bouncing and falling, and b) no moments of "dude
you're fighting for your life WHY ARE YOU STILL FILMING). And, as I've
mentioned before, I enjoy the style so no complaints there. The pacing
was great, the story was simple but effective, and I can't say enough
about Duplass's character being so simultaneously relatable and yet
terrifying. A+ all around.
