10
Very good, beyond my expectations

The idea of a haunted mirror isn't typically that scary to me,
especially Bloody Mary and things of that nature. That being said, I
thought this movie was fantastic. The "haunting" of the mirror is never
explained, which I like. I feel the unknown is more creepy than
something that is fully shown with an explanation. You really don't
need to know who the lady in the mirror is or why she's haunting it.
The real gold in this movie is how the lady "haunts" people through the
mirror. Psychological horror at its best. She gets inside a person's
mind and makes them see what she wants. This plays with the viewer's
mind throughout the film; you can never tell if something is actually
happening or whether it is a product of the mirror. The story revolves around a brother and sister whose parents were
murdered 11 years before. The police story is that a crazed father
tortured and killed his wife before being shot and killed by his son.
The boy, who was put in a mental institution, has recently been
released and his sister (who's been raised in foster care) contacts him
and tells him he must fulfill his promise to help her destroy the evil
that lives within the antique mirror that used to hang in their
childhood home. She believes that her mother and father were normal,
happy people and that whatever is in the mirror killed them both. The
sister has rented the mirror and brought it to their childhood home,
along with a thorough set up of cameras, lights, timers, thermometers,
etc and a full proof mechanism that will destroy the mirror should
anything happen to them while trying to draw the evil out and kill it.
The brother has gone through tons of therapy for the traumatic events
from his childhood therefore doesn't believe his sister and tries to
disprove her belief. He claims to have different memories than her
which dispel the idea of anything supernatural having happened. She
responds angrily to his denial and what ensues are a series of
flashbacks from both siblings cleverly entwined with the present that
tell the story of what really happened to their parents and
simultaneously leads to the dramatic conclusion. The best part of this film is the uneasy feeling you get from never
knowing whether anything is real or simply the evil playing with your
mind. The plot is original; creepy camera angles only accentuate the
exceptional performances from all actors, in particular the younger
Kaytie. Definitely worth a watch, maybe two. Just remember that it's
not a movie you can half watch or "watch without thinking". As long as
you're paying attention it's easy to tell the difference present
occurrences and flashbacks.
