10
iGod Or iMonster?

Steve Jobs is written by Aaron Sorkin and directed by Danny Boyle. It
stars Micheal Fassbender, Kate Winslet, Seth Rogen, Jeff Daniels, and
Michael Stuhlbarg.Set backstage at three iconic product launches and ending in 1998 with
the unveiling of the iMac, Steve Jobs takes us behind the scenes of the
digital revolution to paint a portrait of the man, his estranged family
and staff at its epicenter.I honestly can't start this review without saying this easily ties with
my favorite movie of the year, The Gift, for quite a few reasons. Truth
be told this movie has everything needed to build a classic and uses it
remarkably.Writer Aaron Sorkin has quite a few gems in his filmography which
include Money Ball, Social Network and A Few Good Men. He is as
versatile as he is brutal in honesty. He works wonders in this movie
revealing the man behind the machine rather than the machine behind the
man. Without any scenes of failure or success, Sorkin forces his
audience to understand the complex and often times revolting central
Character. With extremely well written confrontations between Jobs and
Wozniak or Jobs and his Daughter or even Jobs and his Boss, Sorkin
relentlessly demonstrates the true nature behind the tech giant. Though
this movie's central family tension and the Job vs. Apple drama are
enthralling, Sorkin injects just enough dry and black comedy to keep
the movie from becoming an influential figure's shaming. With that
being said Sorkin also understands that the enormous ego of Steve Jobs
had to be exposed as a vice and plays on that brutal fact perfectly.
With 4 dimensional characters, great central dramas and pitch perfect
comedy, this might actually be his best work yet.Accompanying the stellar writing was Danny Boyle's beautiful direction.
Through seemingly unending shots and aggressive movements the audience
genuinely feels like their in Job's presence which can be very hard to
sit through at times but is ultimately rewarding experience. With
visible passion from Boyle, this is one powerful ride.To my common readers I mentioned a few weeks back that Black Mass had
the greatest ensemble cast of the year, I was wrong. This movies cast
never really stops acting to the point of absolute realism. To start
Kate Winslet portrayal of real life Johanna Hoffman was as beautiful as
it was naive. She brought the character alive in full force and truly
demonstrated she is one of the best actresses working. I smell a
nomination coming her way. I had referenced Jeff Daniel's acting last
week in The Martian, well he completely out did himself. He was tender
at times and shark-like in others. He drew the line between
intelligence and decency and walks this tight rope carefully. Five year
old Mekenzie Moss also offers an absolutely astounding performance,
uttering few but heart wrenching words. Michael Stuhlbarg works wonder
as well on a albeit smaller degree. Now onto the two heavy hitters. A surprise to me and my theater alike,
Seth Rogan gives the single best dramatic performance of his career. As
Steve Wozniak, the literal opposite of Jobs, Rogan played the role with
elegance and brilliance and I wouldn't even mind the Benicio snub if
Rogen won the statue. The role demanded a sweet, naive, caring and
ultimately explosive performance and Rogan more than delivered making
the scenes of abrasion between him and Fassbender iconic. I have been holding off that name for the entire review because Micheal
Fassbender is the only thing keeping this movie from failing. He dawns
the character in such a way, I can only compare it to Jake Gyllenhaal
from Night Crawler and even then I don't think I could fully describe
it. Filled to the brim with nuance Fassbender offers a cold,
intelligent, manipulative, calculating, and over all disturbingly
realistic portrayal of Steve Jobs. I really can't envision a better
cast lead than him. As calm as he is diabolical, Fassbender plays this
egotistical narcissist with such precision its close to horrifying to
watch. Though calm through most of the movie Fassbender understands
when to unleash the monster which lays in Jobs and is absolutely
volcanic while doing so. Under all the deception, tyranny, and
technological brilliance lays a purely adroit and masterful
performance. Though Johnny Depp in Black Mass was great and Ian
McClellan in Mr. Holmes was grand, neither of them embodied their
characters much like Micheal Fassbender and it would be a shame and a
disservice to cinema if he didn't with Best Actor. He has proved he is
one of the best actors of the generation.Steve Jobs was a privilege to see on the big screen and is so far tied
with The Gift as my number one movie of the year. With Deft acting,
exquisite direction, and powerful writing this movie is not far from a
modern classic. Steve Jobs gets an A+.
