1
A Farce you can skip.

Martin Scorsese could have created a Real Movie about Real Characters
who committed terrible acts on Wall Stree. Instead he chose to create a
comedy farce for the sole purpose of a box office hit in order to
generate tons of cash just like the character Belfort. There is no
mention of the victims of Belfort's scams. I cannot believe he has been
nominated for Best Director for this piece of Trash. I don't understand
how this movie received 8.7 on IMDb.The formula for the Box Office hit Pot Pourri is simple: Wild Parties,
Fast Cars, Expensive Houses, Huge Yachts, Drunken Helicopter Pilots,
Lots of drinking, drugs, Naked Women, Orgies, guns, Cheating husbands,
Money laundering, Slimy Swiss bankers, seducing hot babes, seducing
ex-babes (grandmas, And finally,Idiotic Extreme Behavior by brokers who
act super smart in one scene And pathetically stupid in another scene.
If Tarantino had been the director, I would have said, fine, that is
his style, but Marty, I expected a bit more class from him. This movie Glorifies Scumbags who manipulate people who entrust them
with their hard earned dollars The scumbags have no moral or ethical
dilemmas. The movie turns them into heroes to be emulated. Belfort's
sentencing agreement mandates a total of $110 million in restitution
yet the victims have received little of this. The script at times makes you think it was written by a hyper-hormoned
immature male high school dropout teenager. It tries extremely hard to
be funny, yet it falls flat on its face in this arena. Reminded me of a
22 minute sit com on TV, yet no one in my row was laughing at the
jokes. The story could have been summarized in 30 minutes, Get ready
for 180 minutes We are forced to watch one unnecessary scene after
another, the same topic is repeated over and over again, Same
arguments, same sales pitches "Sell me this Pen", OK I got it, Belfort
is a charismatic Speaker and a great Sales Person, I don't need to have
it hammered in my brain. The Range of behaviors of the characters go from one Serious Extreme to
completely irresponsible infantile idiotic and unbelievably stupid
levels. Watch Donnie (Jonah Hill) Play with himself in public when he
first takes a look at Naomi Lapaglia ( Margot Robbie ). Remember that
he is the Number 2 Lead at the Investment firm and Later in charge of
running Stratton Oakmont. How can he be so stupid and so smart at the
same time. The Characters are Caricatures of the real people they are
supposed to depict. The tone was set after the first few minutes of
Belfort's (DiCaprio) narrative while he is starring at the camera. It
did not work for me. There are only two decent scenes in this movie
that stand out for their realism. When DiCaprio first Seduces his
future blonde wife at dinner in the restaurant When The two Fed agents
board Belfort's Yacht Nadine and Belfort in a sly arrogant manner
attempts to bribe the investigators. Some movies are must see movies Because they change your view of the
world and you never forget them. This movie changes nothing.
