1
One of the worst sci-fi's ever

*Review contains spoilers*Though I am a big fan of sci-fi movies, this one made me sign-up to
IMDb to send this movie to oblivion.Sci-fi movies are always somewhat unbelievable, but this one... Ouch.What's wrong with it? Just a short summary: 1) A house standing on only
one pole several hundred meters in the sky, and isn't affected by the
wind. 2) Highly sophisticated robots with worthless software because
the damn things can't shoot straight, or at least, can't hit the main
characters but can make a one-shot-one-kill to figurants/extras (even
more stupid than in the Terminator-movies) 3) A planet-consuming giant
space-robot who's too stupid to see through a simple deception (ending
of the movie) 4) The planet-consuming giant space-robot looks like
HAL2000 5) A totally barren planet with a 'secret' oasis, and somehow
this oasis was only discovered by Tom's character nor affected by the
global catastrophes. And the robots, nor the resistance seems to have
discovered this place. 6) Awfully slow movie. Just enough storyline to
fill an hour instead of two. 7) And again; stupid robots/AI. Come on
people. Once the evil space-robot/AI-thingy discovered the
rebel-hideout, it sends 3 killerbots. Once these killerbots are
destroyed, none follow directly. I mean, this is 2013 people. We've got smartphones, programs that can
do the thinking for you. So imagine where we would be a 100 years in
the future. The plot, and especially the behaviour of the robots, seems
to be made up in the 70's or so.And can someone tell me when the kid at the end of the movie was
conceived? Surely not after the first raid on the rebel-hideout.Not only do I want my time & money back, I also would like to see an
apology from the makers. If you are to decide to make an sci-fi, make
it a believable one. Start reading Asimov or something, that man
thought about technological advancements and consequences. The writers
of this movie just made sh*t up without even thinking about it.
