6
Classic, clean-cut film about a fascinating subject

Edward Snowden is one of the most fascinating Americans alive, so it's
no wonder his life has been made into a movie. After the documentary
Citizenfour, it's already the second film featuring the famous
whistle-blower. Citizenfour focused on the days Snowden spent in a
hotel room in Hong Kong, where he invited two journalists who published
the news about the massive surveillance of millions of people. Oliver
Stone's new film takes a different approach and shows us Snowden's back
story. His life is shown in flash backs from the hotel room scenes.
What made him decide to basically give up his comfortable life and
spend the rest of his days in exile? Stone shows how Snowden slowly
changed from a patriotic army soldier into a concerned citizen. When he
and his girlfriend Lindsay discuss the war in Iraq, shortly after they
have met, they disagree. He defends the war, and ridicules Lindsay's
liberal views and her participation in anti-war protests. She tells
him: 'America is founded on the right to question our government'.
Years later, he uses those exact words to explain and defend his
whistle-blowing.The relationship between Snowden and his girlfriend gets relatively
much attention in the film. On the one hand because a love interest is
always nice for a Hollywood film, but on the other hand also because it
is important for the development of Snowden's mindset. His work for the
NSA influences their relationship, not only because they have to live
abroad, but also because it seems even Lindsay's e-mail and online
conversations are being tracked and placed under surveillance. Is this
the final straw that makes him decide to take bold actions? What bothered me about the film is that it is a bit too clean-cut. The
intelligence agencies are full of giant screens and slick technology,
there are some romantic scenes, and the film looks overall very smooth.
It's a rather classic biopic, without much cinematographic added value.
For a subject as controversial as the NSA-leaks, and a for a film maker
with a reputation such as Stone, that's a little bit disappointing.
