1
Leave it to Liebesman

Watching a Jonathan Liebesman film is like watching a screensaver for
fifty years whilst a five year old incorrectly recites the alphabet
dressed in diamonds, gold and covered in tuna. He's representative of a
new breed of cinematic ultra hack, third generation Steven Spielbergs
and James Camerons who, unlike their predecessors - who were typically
uninterested in everything but FX and action - are simply uninterested
in everything. In this regard, Liebesman's films have a special, all
encompassing ineptness, barely serviceable plot and dialogue existing
only to lead up to barely serviceable CGI and action scenes which only
exist to lead up to barely serviceable plot and dialogue. What's staggering is the massive budgets, and the huge amounts of FX
work, that typically goes into Liebesman's films. All this money, all
this time, all this production work, and yet his films are staggeringly
bland and artless. He's one of those artists who came of artistic age
in that awkward gap pre-video game but post Spielberg/Lucas/Cameron
idolatry. What he thinks is cool is immediately outdated to 5 year olds
who multi-player maul monsters morning to midnight on flat-screens and
laptops."Wrath of the Titans" is a sequel to "Clash of the Titans". It's a
popcorn movie which pulls from Greek mythology. As this mythology
relied on oration, imagination, the inconceivable and the abstract, it
is impossible for anyone other than a genius to translate it to cinema
and not produce a goofy film. Still, Liebesman's film has two mildly interesting shots: a top down
view of three warriors being squashed by a wall, and one brief visual
in which giant cyclops walk along a hilltop as humans scurry at their
feet. That's about 2 seconds of art in a feature length film.
Thankfully the film stars Rosamund Pike, who I suppose is also some
kind of genetic work of art, with exotically high cheekbones and a nose
like a peanut. Aussie actor Sam Worthington is our action hero; he does
his usual shtick, his real life confusion as to how he ended up a
mega-action star mimicking the befuddlement of all his characters.The film is a sequel to "Clash of the Titans", a bad film which
actually moved well, had some self-depreciation about it, thanks to
European action director Louis Leterrier. Perhaps the best of this new
wave of sword-and-sandals action-mythology films are "The Eagle",
"Beowulf" and "Immortals", by Tartem Singh.0/10 - Rewatch "Conan The Barbarian" instead. Worth no viewings.
