7
An old school detective thriller

Jack Reacher is not hero, or so he would have you believe. He's a loner
and he's old school. He travels from town to town, presumably via bus
as he has no passport, nor does he have a phone or any other form of
communication. He's a bit like Chuck Norris really, you don't find him
he finds you, he can beat five guys up and barely break a sweat and he
has a very strong sense of right and wrong.Now the trailer for Jack Reacher does slightly deceive the audience
into thinking this is an action film, it does have action but it's
actually more like an old school detective thriller, playing out at
times quite slowly. As I say, Reacher does have action, just not a
whole lot. This is fine though as the time in between the action allows
for both the story and characters to breathe. The story is essentially
quite simple, a sniper takes out five seemingly random victims with
seemingly no motive or cause. Of course our hero soon gets involved and
things start to unravel.Tom Cruise is very good as Jack Reacher, the whoop de doo caused by
fans of the books over Cruise's lack of height never plays into it. He
fully takes on the role in every department, playing a smart,
charismatic, brave and even at times very funny Jack Reacher. The main
villain The Zec, played brilliantly by Werner Herzog, is a very
imposing character and sticks in the mind, which is quite something as
he is only really given two scenes to make his mark. Jai Courtney, as
secondary villain Charlie, creates a menacing character also, using his
physical presence to intimidate those around him.Jack Reacher is a film and a character that stays with you long after
you've watched the film. I saw it last Tuesday and there are moments I
still think of now, the extremely loud car chase, the take down of five
thugs, the initial sniper attack and the moving part where you we are
told just how innocent the victims were.I thoroughly enjoyed watching this film, I would quite happily watch it
again and I would definitely recommend it. There are sixteen other
novels ready for the sequel treatment, I just hope we don't have to
wait too long to see the next instalment.
