5
Tom Hardy shines in bad movie.

The only good thing about this very average film is Tom Hardy's acting.
A lesser talented actor would have made it almost unwatchable. Short on
facts, the writers here have just invented or borrowed bits to try and
make the film sensational. It hasn't worked very well but at least
shows the 'Krays' were a couple of psychopathic violent lunatics whose
scrambled brains believed they were something special. Fact is, in this
film, the one bit of fact we do know was said by Chas Palmintiri as
Angelo Bruno the Philly mob boss, 'mobsters should keep a low profile'.
Ironically poor old Angelo Bruno got whacked by Nicky Scarfo, a
psychopath mafiosi who just like the 'Krays' loved being high profile
and just like the Krays was sentenced to die in prison.The 'Krays' and most of the morons who worked for them were as thick as
planks. They were also seriously dangerous psychopathic paranoid,
disorganised nut cases who would use violence against anybody who got
in the way. Although the story seems to have forgotten a lot of well
recorded facts and many real people. Where was older brother Charlie
Kray and other faces who stood trial with them. Why so many of the main
60s true characters strangely left out of the film. The so called
shootout scene was way off the recorded known facts in the Kray's pub
the 'Carpenters Arms' and the only gunfight was in Catford at 'Mr
Smiths' drinking club in 1965 and neither of the Krays were there. In
this film, the 'Blind Beggar' pub had mysteriously moved from it's
prominent place on the busy east end Whitechapel Rd to what was some
unknown dark cobbled back street which was obviously a film set.
Frances Shea had left Reg Kray 8 months after the wedding in 1965, she
left diaries clarifying he was fairly useless as a man. The Triumph
Spitfire he buys her was a 1967 registered car some two years later.
Far from being respected by their 'firm' they were often looked upon a
a couple of morons. Albert Donahue's nicknames for the twins was 'Gert
and Daisy'. The film could have told interesting story if it had been researched
properly. The true story is far more interesting than this fiction.
None of it is anywhere near the truth. This film takes some of it's stories from an old book written by a toff
named John Pearson. The book was written forty plus years ago and I can
imagine they must have had a great time filling Pearson full of tall
stories. But this film surpasses the book in being so full of fiction
it becomes a spot the next mistake game. I am glad to say that the film
does not glorify the 'Krays', it shows them more as the pathetic,
paranoid, violent, brainless sick morons they were. Very lucky to have
gotten away with their crimes for so long. But the 50s and 60s were not
long after the war and London and times were a whole lot different. If
anyone out there aspires to admire these couple of lowlifes, they
seriously need a reality check up.The Krays and the Richardson stories have been hijacked by so many
'silly b***icks' wannabe gangsters and money grabbing Kray wives it has
become a monumental joke. Much of it fuelled by old showbiz people like
Barbara Windsor for one who come up with' they were good boys who loved
their old Mum'. Many of the most evil despots in history loved their
Mothers. The 'Krays' were hated with a passion by many of the proper
old faces around London. The Krays were disorganised and out of
control. Only last week, Freddie Foreman, who is a wily old fox and was
smart enough to shun the limelight when he was active said had the
Krays not been arrested they were due to be 'ironed out'. Freddie
Foreman would know more about the Krays, the Richardsons and London's
underworld than is contained the many books about the 'Krays'. There
are many who were there who believe that it would have been better for
all of us if they had been ironed out and disappeared off of the face
of the earth in 1967. The 'Krays' do not deserve being called a legend. The bull***t has
created an industry out there for second rate books, films and
documentaries that will invent anything to get your money. This is just
another one. As a gangster movie, it isn't in the same league as
American films 'Godfather' 'Goodfellas' or 'Casino' from a Brit angle
it doesn't come close to 'The long Good Friday' or 'Sexy Beast'.
'Legend' is just another ordinary film made watchable by Tom Hardy's
performance.Before you see this movie, watch Monty Python's 'Pirhana Bros' sketch
and take on the Krays, apart from being hilarious, the Pythons got it
far more right than the writers of 'Legend'.
