8
A rare blockbuster that could teach audiences something

One of the more understated strings in the bow of animation giant Pixar
are the moral lessons that their films provide to audiences. In 2001
Monsters, Inc. introduced us to Mike and Sully, two monsters that were
part of a corporation where monsters could travel through teleportation
doors and into bedrooms of children to scare them so that their screams
would power their operations. Children were also seen as dangerous
outsiders until the business learnt that laughter is a more successful
for increasing production. Overcoming our fears, risk taking and
laughter are lessons that the animation studio itself taught us and
embraced on its own. Pixar have again upheld this optimistic, moral outlook because Monsters
University is a celebration of diversity and learning your specialist
skills. The film is a prequel to the 2001 film, with Billy Crystal and
John Goodman reprising their roles as monsters Mike and Sully, who are
not friends but college rivals learning the trade of scaring and hoping
to be accepted into the Monsters, Inc. The film will give parents an opportunity to talk to their children
about the subject of college in a positive outlook. In American there
has rarely been a more important time to have this conversation. The
Huffington Post wrote in April that there had already been thirteen
college shootings this year. In 2007 thirty-two people were shot dead
at Virginia Tech. Though never short of funding, the American education
system also still produces consistently subpar performances. Countering
these pillars of fear and tension, Monsters University captures the
emotions of college life and then gleefully subverts them. The core of the film is the friendship of Mike and Sulley, who
represent contrasting attitudes in college study life. Mike is
hardworking, ambitious and by the book but also small, an outcast and a
loner. He wants to be the sole leader. Sulley is unprepared, lazy and
coasts off his family name as a Sullivan. He's bigger, more
intimidating and popular than Mike and expects everything will come
through his natural ability and that he doesn't need to study. After
making a bet with Dean Hardscrabble (Helen Mirren), they're thrown
together into a Scare Games contest, where they reluctantly band
together, along with other loners, to complete a series of challenges
to stay enrolled in the college. Each game played against the other rival fraternity houses gives the
film a story structure that is not dissimilar to The Internship. Unlike
that film though, you actually care dearly about the characters. This
is one of Pixar's greatest strengthens, not just as animators but as
filmmakers. Each of the hilarious characters, including a middle-aged
student and a two-headed dancer, helps to understand each other's
strengths and how to use these in the tasks. It could be viewed as a generic 'be yourself' message but in the
context of a college setting its thematically sensible because college
should be a place where people learn their own skills and can take
unexpected detours and still succeed. For those assuming this is a
derivative underdog story, there is a huge point of conflict in this
film, coupled with Pixar's trademark lump in the throat moments, as the
story shifts into its darker unexpected final act. The director of the film was Dan Scanlon, who worked as a storyboard
artist for Pixar on Cars. He graduated from Columbus College of Art and
Design with a Bachelor of Fine Arts and in his first Pixar film as
director he has used these visual skills exceptionally. The film is
hysterically funny, partly due to the wit but also the number of sight
gags on display. Monsters University itself resembles a proper college, with lecture
rooms, dorms and orientation stalls, and uses this detail to reference
old college films and campus stereotypes. I liked the variety in the
monster designs, like how one of the students had a moustache shaped
like a vampire bat or the Gothic monster that had spikes coming out of
the microphone she was holding. Dan Scanlon also controls the beats of
the story so that there are breathing spaces between the challenges and
that action sequences are brisk and never overlong. Hollywood films now are bigger and louder, but with little to say.
Monsters University is a rare blockbuster that could teach audiences
something. The film is about learning to accept fear and failure, while
remaining hopeful about change and growth through our different skills.
Pixar's personal talent is that their films are still as simulating as
they are funny and creative.
