9
Wes Anderson's best? It could well be.

It's 1965 and pre teen pen pals, Sam (Jared Gilman) and Suzy (Kara 

Heywood) agree to run away from home and meet up a year after meeting 

for the first time. While the two of them head off into the wilderness 

of Suzy's twelve mile long home island a search party that includes 

Island Policeman Bruce Willis, Scout leader Edward Norton, Suzy's 

parents Bill Murray and Frances McDormand and Sam's fellow Scouts set 

about trying to hunt the eloping children down in the days preceding a 

huge storm.



I should say from the outset that I am a huge Wes Anderson fan and have 

absolutely loved all of his films with the exception of Fantastic Mr 

Fox so I went in expecting great things. My expectations were matched 

and even perhaps exceeded. I loved this film. Anderson sets up Suzy's 

home life in a fantastic opening sequence which features some exquisite 

tracking shots through the family home. Before anything is said it is 

already obvious to the audience that Suzy is a loner who longs for 

something bigger, something more. Her parents do not get on and are 

never even seen in the same room, let alone talking to each other. She 

has three younger brothers who appear to get along very well. Her house 

is large and well furnished, indicating wealth if not happiness. All of 

this is established in one long sequence of beautiful camera movements 

which last no longer than a couple of minutes. Sam's life with his 

Scout troupe is shown in a similar manner although it soon becomes 

apparent that he has already escaped in search of his love, Suzy.



One of the things I love about all of Anderson's films is that you 

could turn on the TV at pretty much any moment during any of his films 

and within a few moments be sure that you are watching a Wes Anderson 

film. His style is very distinctive and it's all over his latest work. 

The shots are framed to perfection and each camera movement feels 

measured but not forced. There is a vague pastel and brown tint to 

everything which matches the film's period setting. Everything from the 

sets to the characters also feels slightly off centre and as though 

they inhabit the same world as The Royal Tenenbaums and The Darjeeling 

Limited. Anderson not only creates his own world for each film but his 

films feel somehow connected and as though they too inhabit the same 

slightly odd world.



The plot is absolutely delightful and sweet. It's such a touching and 

loving story which also feels like a love letter to the children's 

adventure books of which Suzy reads throughout the film. Though they 

read these books, the children long for an adventure of their own and 

have finally embarked on one. The characters are equally enchanting. 

Sam and Suzy are somehow both old beyond their years but also very much 

still children. They have obvious intelligence and wisdom but convey it 

through a child's eyes. They are on the cusp of adulthood but somewhere 

in between. The acting of Hayward and Gilman is superb and again both 

feel both older than they are but also very child like. They are great. 

The adult characters are also great without exception. Bruce Willis is 

a sad and lonely cop who patrols a quiet island and although he has his 

faults is very kind and caring. Edward Norton is an exemplary leader 

who also has a big heart while Bill Murray and Frances McDormand, both 

lawyers, talk to each other using mostly legal language and although 

are not really in love with each other, care a lot for their children 

and want the best for them. There are also small cameos from Jason 

Schwartzman, Harvey Keitel and Tilda Swinton, all three of which were 

welcome and provided something. The adult cast on the whole was 

fantastic.



The score goes perfectly with the on screen action and features a 

mixture of militaristic marching music, classical and 60s pop. They 

somehow all work together and help to push the story on to it's 

frenetic final act.



This is a film with a big heart, lovely story and plenty of laughs. 

Although I only just saw it I already can't wait to see it again. It's 

everything you'd expect from a Wes Anderson film but as well as being 

unusual, wacky and nice to look at also has a sweet story about 

adolescence, growing up and first love.


