4
Not good.

There are some great heist movies out there and considering this is by
the oceans 11 guys I thought it would be great. But it just isn't. The
characters have no development to them. In a heist movie you are
supposed to root for the robbers and want them to succeed. This movie
made me not care about their plan and the jokes in it are not thought
out properly. Channing Tatum's character was not very believable as both a red neck
or a single dad down on his luck. Adam Driver was very boring and
stilted with his southern drawl not really impressing anyone. Katie
holmes was also in this film but she is a small character. I thank god
for this as she just can't act convincingly (watch Batman Begins and
you will see why Nolan got someone else to play Rachel in Dark Knight).
Overall the 2 of the 3 main characters were boring and the actors were
not on their best for this film either because of poor direction or
because the actors did not give a sh*t.The only good person in it for me was Daniel Craig. His accent was
okay, nothing to get hard over, and some lines he said were at least
funny. The little girl in it was okay. Child actors are always going to
be rubbish but at least she was convincing. The two redneck brothers
were just a stereotype to be laughed at but they again fall flat and
are not funny. The "comedy" in this "comedy, crime, drama" is stilted and boring with
very few jokes making me laugh. For instance during the prison riot in
there's this big Game Of Thrones reference which falls flat on its face
and is boring. It revolves around the books taking a long time to come
out..That's it, no set up, no reason, it was just there to be "random"
and relevant as far as I can tell.I actually made a note of the number of times the audience laughed
during the film. Most of the time the audience was silent as the jokes
were told except for one or two times like when a red neck says that he
is "really good with computers, all the twitters I know em"No
accounting for peoples tastes in comedy I suppose. The plot is simple and effective with the actual "heist" bit being
okayish. This film was marketed as being from the same guys who did
Oceans 11,12 and 13 however the script was written by Rebecca Blunt who
to this day has received no other writing credits for any other movies.
This is where you have been lied to ladies and gentlemen! I believed
going into this film that the plot would be written by the team that
wrote Oceans but nope!! The film is not as clever as Oceans 11 for its heist plot. The big
reveal at the end is boring, revealing that they just threw a few bin
bags full of money in a garbage truck, berried it and then dug it up a
couple of months later whilst the FBI was following them?? How did they
achieve this anyway??? Surely the FBI would have been keeping tabs on
them the entire time and knew they were doing this?! The technical side of things works quite well for this movie as the cut
scenes showing the plot of the heist are edited really well. The film
did have a flow to it, not being bogged down with pacing issues at all.
The colour palette used as well was very efficient and was dark when
needed. The sound did not wow me in the least but it was not awful like
in some other movies I have seen and was used effectively to create
feelings and atmosphere. There was a big John Denver vibe going on
which is in keeping with a stereotype that all people from west
Virginia love John Denver and know all the words to "take me home,
country road" which is simply not the case.All in all this film has good parts in it but not enough to warrant a
£8.95 theatre ticket. With characters that are flat and comedy that is
not funny this film is not the worst I have seen but is missing things
that would make it a good movie. I would suggest that you wait for it
on DVD or stream it if you really want to see it. Seeing it in the
cinema was a bit of a rip off.
