4
Someone kept pausing the film....no wait they didn't.

I would like to start by saying i am a fan of films that are
"different". I don't need a million gunshots or explosions to entertain
me. I am not set on good guy vs bad guy and good guy winning. I like
thought provoking films; i enjoy them much more than the soul sucking
films that are manufactured on a daily basis. So i was intrigued by
this one. The trailer was dark and seemed full of suspense. The critics
had made bold comparisons with Stanley Kubrick, which in itself is a
massive compliment. And as someone who lives in Scotland it had a
little sentiment to it. But for me it was dull. Every time i thought it was going to pick up
the pace, it decelerated. It was so slow it may as well have been going
backwards. There are far too many scenes that are prolonged. I am fully
aware of its intention to focus on aesthetically driven scenes. But 5/6
seconds is enough to appreciate it, not 10/15 seconds. At some points i
thought the reel had maybe stuck and was expecting a CineWorld employee
to come pacing round the corner to explain that there was something
wrong. It just pauses at points that don't need that much attention. I
am also aware of the symbolic nature the film carries. It is clearly a
film you need to look further to understand it in more depth. That is
fine; i welcome that, but the problem is that it does this without
conviction. I don't need to see the masses of drunkards who swarm
Sauchiehall Street 20 times. What is the purpose? To let us know that
we, as people, blindly walk through life intoxicated not appreciating
the finer things in life? That Under the skin we are empty? I assume
that is a candidate for its meaning.Scarlett Johansson doesn't have a lot to do in this film; basically
make small talk and get naked, all the while with a plain face. And
considering how ridiculous the Scottish actors are made to look, maybe
she is due some credit for maintaining that straight face. There are a
few things that bug me however; like she can walk down your average
staircase, but panics with a spiral staircase. There is a definite
point to this film, but with the layout, with there being no real
culmination, no real explanation, it leaves you feeling you have been
robbed of a film that could have been more. Could have told a better
story. And for any Americans who watch, not all Scottish people talk
like that, or wear horrible purple shirts, unnecessarily tucking them
into our over elevated jeans. We don't all support Hibs and when a van
is parked not all of us will gang up and try to break into the van. So
feel free to visit. It is a nice place after all. Although the film had
some stunning scenes and promotes Scotland visually, it doesn't exactly
put the people in a great light. I wanted to enjoy this film, but i couldn't. I wanted to agree with
comparisons with Kubrick, but i certainly won't. You can throw
arguments of it was beautifully crafted or had symbolic serenity, but
at the end of the day it is slow, uneventful and lacked culmination.
