8
What should have been a typical superhero film, now becomes a conspiracy-espionage thriller.

Captain America: The Winter Soldier is the third film in Phase 2 of the
Marvel Cinematic Universe (after last year's Iron Man 3 and Thor: The
Dark World). Compared with the mighty giant green monster, the hammer
wielding Norse thunder god or the 'genius, philanthropist, billionaire,
playboy' armor man, the Captain was never quite as appealing as the
rest of the 'Unusuals'. Steve Rogers is portrayed as an old-fashioned,
straightforward, honest, courageous, sincere, patriotic superhero. This
makes him a less-interesting, boring character. Moreover, as Tony Stark
said it, "Everything special about you came out of a bottle!"Most film-goers would know that Marvel films are famous for its bright,
fun and not-so-serious approach to its storytelling, together with some
catchy, witty dialogues. This film is a game changer in the Marvel
Cinematic Universe. This time around, Marvel decided to take a
different approach on things: To make a Captain America sequel with a
more serious, darker plot development and more face-to-face close-range
hand combat fights. What should have been a typical superhero film, now
becomes a conspiracy-espionage thriller.Two years after the events that happened in New York city, the Captain
still struggles with adjusting himself to the modern world, with no
apparent social life or girl friend, which is why Natasha/Black Widow
tries to introduce or recommend him some cute girls in S.H.I.E.L.D. for
him to date with. He is shocked when he learns that the very
governmental organisation he is working for is not what it seems to be,
as the Cap said in the trailer, "This isn't freedom. This is fear".
Soon, he finds himself entangled in a conspiracy that puts millions of
innocent lives at risk.The film comes with excellent, fast-paced action choreography. Although
the cinematography is a bit dodgy due to the shaky-cam techniques used
for depicting the chaotic moments, the fight scenes between the Winter
Soldier and the Captain is fantastic and serves as one of the film's
highlights. The audience finally gets to see how the Captain's shield
is utilised effectively in both offensive and defensive combat
situations. It also good to see again how Natasha kicks ass in the
film.All actors delivered a pretty decent performance in the film. Once
again, Chris Evans and Scarlett Johannson both proved that they fit
their roles well, adding more depth to the characters they portray in
the film. Sam Wilson/Falcon is a welcome addition to the Marvel
franchise and hopefully he will appear again in the Avengers sequel.
Unfortunately, despite the film's title, the winter soldier is not a
complex villain and doesn't appear much in the film. It's such a shame
to just show him as a formidable physical fighter who's capable of
challenging the Captain.The film is well-scripted, filled with suspense while highlighting some
important socio-political issues such as government surveillance and
control in its storytelling. Although the twists in the film is
predictable and fairly easy to guess, the sequel is a marked
improvement compared to its predecessor, Captain America: The First
Avenger. The story unfolds gradually and comes with huge, surprising
developments by the end of the film. Marvel Cinematic Universe is not
going to be the same again. What's going to happen next? How the story
is going to progress in Avengers: Age of Ultron, after what had
happened in this film? Interesting.Rating: 8.5/10http://yjcool.blogspot.com/2014/03/movie-review-captain-america-
winter.htmlBe warned. This is not the typical fun, 'not-so-serious', entertaining
Marvel film that you used to watch in the past. You might like it or
find it a bore. In order to recognize some of the characters in the
film, you need to remember some of Marvel's Phase One films. Most
importantly, you need to watch Captain America: The First Avenger
before watching this to understand the plot.Note: Guess you don't need me to remind you to stay for the mid-credit
and post-credit scenes. It foreshadows what's going to happen next by
introducing a lesser-known supervillain and two new characters,
'Miracles' (another name for 'mutants' because of screen rights issues)
which going to be in the Avengers sequel, Age of Ultron. It further
confirms that one of weapons depicted in The Avengers is indeed one of
the six infinity stones.
