1
Be Warned

The title says it all, telling to you evacuate the theater right after
the credits because you are about to pummeled by one of the worst
pieces of writing and acting ever put together in a Hollywood release.
The question is why and how did this ever come to happen? We have after
all Jason Bateman and Jane Fonda here, two terrific performers. One an
icon who can just show up and light up the screen, and Bateman, a very
likable actor who could have been great here, but he falls victim to
the mess that permeates every minute of this nightmare. It's not funny,
dramatic, or anything else but truly awful because all we get are one
stupid remark after another, one loud display of bad acting after
another, and what has to be one horrible turn by an actor who should
not be allowed to show up in another film after this: Adam Driver, more
on him later.A family goes back home to honor their father after his passing. The
matriarch, Jane Fonda pretty much finds an opportunity to put them all
under the same roof for about a week, and we expect this will result in
some matters being resolved, some sort of catharsis to originate from
these people confronting each other and getting rid of their demons,
and they have plenty to resolve, but it's the presentation and
execution of these problems that is the problem. It's hard to like
anyone here. Fonda can't find her footing, and all she has to play with
are her new and improved breasts. Soon, we are tired of all the jokes,
and the best she can say about her husband is that he was gifted. This
is just the beginning of one crass joke after another. With the
exception of a surprising turn by a celebrity that I can't usually
stand and manages to gather some dignity and actually do some good
acting here, everyone is awful. Tina Fey somehow delivers her lines as
if she was stepping in from another movie and directed by someone who
has been behind a camera and knows how to tell a story. She is the
steady and logical mind here, reminding them of who they really are,
and to stop deluding themselves with silly pretensions.We have the cheating wife, the stressed husband who might never be able
to father a child under the pressure of his loving wife, who has no
problems finding a sperm donor with the help another family member. We
have the immature sibling, who can't make a move without reminding them
or any of us in the audience what a truly horrible human being he is.
Either Driver is the best actor around because after this is I don't
think anyone is going to be able to see him in any other light. We
certainly can't understand why anyone would put up with a person like
him ever, in any situation. In the film he has managed to seduce a
woman with a PhD, but we wonder what in the world she has seen in him
because Driver's acting is so one-dimensional that we don't see him as
having any charm whatsoever. He certainly doesn't have the looks, or
anything in the way he delivers his lines. He's barely tolerable when
he is on the screen. He makes everybody else look even worse than they
already are.It's certainly a pity because Stoll has managed to shine in previous
films, both dramas and comedies with his simple and dry approach. Here
he looks lost and like a victim. Maybe he was just reacting to the
horrible dialog. Things don't improve in the end. In fact the best of
surprises just feels like a last minute desperate attempt to make us
feel like we are watching a daring, independent film, but it's just as
futile as anything that has been presented before. The jokes are as bad
and as infantile as anything we saw in "Bad Neighbors". How many times
can we see that cute child play with his newly discovered ability to go
to the bathroom? Oh, and let me count the way that everyone talks about
Ms. Fonda's improved physique, which at 70+ manages to look terrific,
but the joke here is if anything offensive. We can also wonder if the
producers of "Porky" got in their two cents, too because I'll never be
able to look at a rabbi again without thinking middle school mentality.
It's pretty sad to see grown men playing that joke and other adults
actually pretending they like it.Finally, I kept thinking that dysfunctional families have given us
plenty to laugh at, laugh with, cry with, and have managed to go from
low brow comedy to the heights of Oscar winning material. I kept
looking back with more respect than ever at the way Shirley McLaine and
Jack Nicholson did so much wonderful work in "Terms of Endearment".
With the superb support of Winger, De Vitto, and the rest of a cast
that managed to show real life situations, sometimes in broad strokes,
pushing the limits, but never failing to deliver the message that we
are flawed, but that as long as we care, there is room for redemption
and a better future. In "Terms", even the strength of that love is
enough to give us a hint that everything might just be all right. Here
we never get the feeling that anyone in this family had anything but
revulsion for each other, and we just wonder what the rest of the
neighborhood felt when they saw what was going on under that roof.Yes, maybe people should just leave before even going in, and maybe the
message is for the actors who should take their cues and start looking
more carefully at the kind of material they decide to try next time.
