1
Terrible

The movie started off well, with Prof X jailed and drugged in a DIY
hideout maintained by Wolvie and Caliban. Pierce is a great villain,
but there's no payoff with his abilities or menace. He's simply the
foreman for the evil corporation that is growing test tube mutants and
hunting them down. Besides having one robotic hand, him or his Reavers
don't really have any glaring cybernetic advantages. It would have been
interesting to see different types of cyborg Reavers as in the comics,
but in this movie, they are simply claw fodder.Once the introduction of Wolvie's clone begins, the movie goes
downhill. We know nothing as to how or why this clone suddenly appears.
Why wouldn't there be clones of all the X-Men at this point? Wasn't it
already proved in the most awful of its series, Terminator Genisys,
that Arnold vs Younger Arnold is not that captivating? Why would it
work in this movie? Why not make Pierce a more capable and challenging
villain?Once the Prof is whacked, as well as the kind family that sheltered
them, I really began to lose interest. What's the point of heroes if
they can't protect the good and innocent? The ending made no sense. At the beginning, Lara takes on 20+ Reavers
on her own. After being reunited with 10+ other powerful, trained
killer mutant kids, they are running away and being captured by the
same number of Reavers? It makes NO SENSE. I'm CONVINCED that the movie critic industry is PAID or compensated in
some way by the studios to produce positive reviews to DUPE, bait and
switch audiences all for $$$ because this movie is currently 77 on
Metacritic when it should be a 37. Good violence, poor writing, sloppy
ending is what you really get.Its truly sad that a Wolverine movie has yet to be made well. Will
never watch another movie by Mangold ever again. Learned my lesson.
Save your $ and wait til this streams. Trust me, you'll thank me later.
This is also part of the reason why IMDb shut down their message
boards. Not to silence the haters, but to silence the voices of
critical yet honest reviewers that ultimately hurts the $ of the movie
industry.
