1
Meet the Little Voices Telling You to Leave the Theater

I am genuinely confused as to why people are calling this "Pixar's
Best" or an original concept. Pixar has done far better than this and
even the mediocre 'Brave' and 'Cars' are far better.Not only is the concept of 'people controlling your brain' tired and
used multiple times, they managed to make it even more boring. There is
absolutely no nuance in this film. The characters, (joy, anger, fear,
disgust, sadness), are a visual representation of their emotion. I mean
seriously, do they understand subtlety at all? Anger literally catches
on fire, sadness is blue, and joy looks like every boring same-faced
cartoon princess. Not to mention none of the emotions look like Riley,
the little girl. This is even more of a flaw when we later see the
emotions in other characters heads, (Riley's parents, her teacher,
etc.) who look just like the person whose brain they inhabit. Why would
Riley be the only one whose emotions all look nothing like her? They
took an old concept, made it incredibly literal, and then botched it up
with inconsistencies. Aside from the boring concept, this movie is way too complex and
depressing for children. The plot is nearly nonexistent and the most
constant thing throughout is joy and sadness attempting to get back to
the control center of Riley's brain after being sucked out by accident.
Other than that its all very dull and if it doesn't make you cry,
you'll probably fall asleep. There are, from what I remember, no laugh
out loud jokes. Way too much time went into world-building and showing
off the various landscapes and rooms of Riley's mind for there to be
any actual storyline. Everything felt extremely dragged out and joy and
sadness ran into obstacle after obstacle trying to get back to the
control center. Finally, Riley tries to run away and it just so happens
that joy returns and fixes everything before she has the chance to get
too far. Not only was it absurd for an 11 year old girl to try and take
a bus back home, it was far too sad the way the whole thing was shown. There were so many random characters introduced for 5 seconds which
served no purpose other than to lighten the mood, and they failed at
that too. Bing Bong the imaginary friend who was a furry pink elephant
was out of place and his design was really uncreative. When he died, I
honestly felt relieved not to hear his irritating voice any more. He
had no personality or character development and therefore there wasn't
any reason to feel sad when he died. Unles of course you're a little
kid in which case the whole thing was way too heavy. Either way its a
definite miss.And for those saying only psychology majors can enjoy this movie,
that's not true. I can't imagine anyone honestly liking this movie.
Aside from the complete inaccuracy of anyone feeling only one emotion
at a time, everything about this movie was casually ableist. The
portrayal of depression as being something small and easily gotten over
was incorrect and terrible. Even the advertisements ("Meet the Little
Voices Inside Your Head") felt like an insensitive joke towards people
with schizophrenia or other disorders who have auditory hallucinations.Overall, I would not recommend this movie to anyone. Too depressing and
confusing for kids, too boring and literal for adults, this movie is
enjoyable by no one. Pixar did not please its intended audience, nor
did it please the grown ups. The one redeeming factor was the
animation, which was good but all the designs were so uncreative that
good animation couldn't save it.
