6
Another book adaption more focused on making money than what made the book worth adapting in the first place.

OverviewWhether you've read the book or became interested due to the trailer or
the name Tim Burton, beware. For while you may be entertained enough to
not notice the two-hour time length, you will be left feeling the time
could have been better spent.Main Storyline For quite sometime Jake (Asa Butterfield) was perhaps the only one who
really connected with his grandfather Abe (Terrence Stamp). He would
babysit him and tell him all the tales of his adventures, and even once
those tales became a fantasy to Jake they stayed with him. However,
with his grandpa old it seems he takes those old tales more factual
than ever. Making his shocking death, in which Jake is the first to
find him, and Abe rehashes information dealing with his old fairy tales
strange.Yet, even with thinking grandpa may have been delirious, he needs to
see if maybe those stories are true. Leading to him taking a trip to
Cairnholm in Wales. A place where he discovers many of grandpa's
stories being true, including the monsters who likely killed him.HighlightsThe main thing praiseworthy is that some of the things the movie cuts,
like us drowning in Jacob's ordinariness, are gone. Also, while
arguably too much of it was cut out, it was nice that the time between
meeting Jacob and being introduced to the peculiars was slimmed down.
But perhaps the thing most noteworthy is despite this film being two
hours, what remains of the magic which is Tim Burton's direction makes
you so lost in the special effects and beauty of the movie that you
don't really feel it.CriticismWith that said, if you are someone who reads the book before the movie,
expect your usual feelings of being upset. Mostly because it seems this
movie was not made to start a franchise. Starting with the topic of the
characters, I honestly feel like the changes made weren't really for
the better. Now, let me begin by saying that part of the issue stems
from none of these characters being allowed to naturally develop.
Which, unfortunately, leads to them personalities feeling amped up,
especially in the case of the pecuiliars, to make up for it. For
whether it is Enoch (Finlay MacMillan) coming off as more of an ass
than I remember or Eva Green, as Miss Peregrine, seemingly channeling
Helena Bonham Carter in one of her more quirkier roles, you are left
with so much personality but no substance behind it. Heck, even
Butterfield, who usually is quite adept at playing awkward and
introverted characters, just seems off his game in this movie without
the ability to develop his character into some semblance of a person. Transitioning to the story, this is where the lack of development
really hits. For while, some of my feelings likely come from reading
the book and thus thinking my perception of characters aren't met, at
the same time it is hard to ignore certain issues. One being how the
film completely ignores creating a sense of mystery or building up to
anything. Let's take Emma's (Ella Purnell) relationship with Jake, or even hers
with Abe, for example. Her relationship with Abe is omitted entirely,
thus leaving her as the girl with the power to control air. Then hen it
comes to the Jake relationship, she pushes him away throughout the
movie and the parts in the book dealing with how they came to fall for
each other are cut. On top of that, the issues which come from liking
your grandpa's ex are omitted as well as Jake's inexperience with
girls. Making the build toward them eventually kissing feeling more
like an obligation for a young adult novel adaptations than a
culmination of everything that happened thus far. It doesn't end there,
though. Frank's (Chris O'Dowd) development is cut in terms of his rocky
marriage, his relationship with his father, as well as his feelings
about being his age and still drifting from one dream to the next. But the biggest issue, as noted above, is that the film lacks mystery
and build. Something which makes the reveal of the hollowgast and
Barren anti-climatic. Not just because their look was revealed in the
trailers, but also because Barron and his associate aren't treated as
monsters lurking in the shadows. They are spoken as if they are
formidable creatures which kill indiscriminately. However, there isn't
much in the way of lurking in shadows and while they keep some of the
killings which happened on the island, they, you guessed it! Don't have
the type of build which brings some form of fear, anxiety, or even
excitement. I mean, between the hollowgast looking like a rejected monster from a
Guillermo Del Toro movie, seeing Ms. Peregrine kill the one who killed
Victor and decided to come back for seconds (because they are in a loop
she always knows when it is coming), or how Samuel L. Jackson as Barron
is played as some sort of comical villain, it ruins whatever sense of
fear you should have. Because, honestly, the way Jackson plays Barron
is like he is auditioning to be the first Black villain of an Austin
Powers movie. Think of his role in Kingsman without the lisp and him
being rich.Lastly, the final battle and ending were terrible. So terrible the
trailer for A Dog's Purpose had me more on an emotional roller-
coaster. On The FenceWith that said, while Barron's comical dialog and actions put a damper
on how fearful the hollows should have been, this isn't to say they
weren't funny. Also, while the battles with the hollows weren't as life
or death as I'd like, it was hard to not be entertained by the use of
CGI in showing them destroy their environment and how the actors
interacted with them in combat.
