3
Long, Dumb and not so Fun

In 2003 while Denzel Washington was promoting his dumb but fun thriller
Out of Time he gave an interview stating how it was nice to star in a
film that didn't require him to do too much. Coming off the back of his
2002 Oscar win for Training Day, Washington didn't exactly sugar coat
the idea that Out of Time was a pay check gig pure and simple. Since
then Denzel's film choices have seemed littered with these quick cash
movies. For every Man on Fire or Inside Man we get a Safe House or last
year's forgettable 2 Guns. The Equalizer sees Washington re-team for
the first time since 2002 with Training day Director Antoine Fuqua.
Audience's hoping to see a return to form from the Training day duo
maybe disappointed. The Equalizer feels like another pay check gig, it
certainly is dumb it lacks any of the fun of Out of Time...And that
movie stared Dean Cain.The Equalizer is a remake in name only of the 80's television series of
the same name. The show starred Edward Woodard as a retired government
agent turned private detective. He spends each episode helping people
similar to the A-team or Highway to Heaven. It was never a show I was
practically aware of but it seemed to be stable Television for my
parents growing up. The 2014 version sees Washington play Robert
McCall, a mysterious quiet man who gets sucked back into his old
violent ways while trying to help out a number of people in his life.
These people include a young prostitute played by Chloe Grace Moretz.
She is under the control of the Russian Mafia who doesn't take to
kindly to their business being interrupted. If the plot synopsis sounds
familiar it's because it's the basic premise for most Steven Segal
movies or any action movie in the 80's. Don't get me wrong The
Equalizer is far better than any Half Past Dead or Exit Wounds (maybe
not Under Siege) but it is the first sign that this long awaited big
screen Equalizer lacks any sort of Originality. Antoine Fuqua with the
exception of Training Day has never really dazzled on the big screen.
Films like Shooter and Tears of the Sun look the part but never really
excite as action films. The Equalizer is no different. Long when it
should be tight and loud when it should be quiet. The Equalizer is a
bit like a spinning plate. It starts off straight before quickly
wobbling then completely crashing to the ground. Fuqua and writer
Richard Wenk should take the full brunt of this. The script feels like
it should have undergone another re-write, you can feel every minute of
the films 131 min running time. In an effort to include elements of the
show Denzel finds himself helping multiple characters during the movies
2nd act. Great for them but this puts the main plot on hold killing all
momentum. At one stage Washington leaves the film altogether to meet
with old work friends (sorely underused Melissa Leo and Bill Pullman)
for a scene that does not add to the story in any way. Elements are
brought up but never go anywhere. It is eluded that his Character has
OCD but this is never established and appears and re-appears at random.
All this makes the film disjointed and adds to the already bloated
running time.At this point you could forgive all this because it is an action film
and you paid to see Denzel kick ass and take names. Unfortunately Fuqua
drops the ball in this department also. An initial confrontation with
Russian heavies is well shot for maxim tension but quickly unravels
once the action starts. The film feels like it's edited in an attempt
to cut around some of the violence and this makes the fight scenes seem
clunky. It doesn't help that it is so poorly let, a similar compliant
that was leveled against Fuqua last film Olympus has fallen.Denzel is always a watchable presence no matter what he is in and here
it is no different. Unfortunately the screen play doesn't give him much
of a character to work with. The story goes out of its way to keep his
character a mystery, we learn next to nothing about him which makes it
difficult to root for him. He just comes across as bored or
uninterested. He does get some moments to shine and he is a warm
presence in the his scenes with Chloe Grace Moretz. Moretz here is
excellent in the role bringing a real vulnerability as a young Russian
Call girl and the late night conversations they share about books
(although very on the nose) are engaging. She brings a real heart to
the film which is sadly lost when she is sidelined for the bulk of the
running time. Without her Washington's character has no one to bounce
off. He just becomes a bore. It would be easy to compare this film to Tony Scott's excellent Man on
Fire and the marketing has gone to some length to draw a similarity
between the two. Man on fire succeeded because Tony Scott was wise
enough to spend an hour of the running time building a relationship
between the two leads. Denzel's anger and revenge seems justified. In
the Equalizer it feels like Fuqua skips through this stuff to get to
the money shots. It's interesting that both films contain a shot of the
lead character walking away from an Explosion, In Man on Fire it's a
moment which signifies the storm that is to come and the level of
violence he is willing to go to. In the Equalizer it's a hollow eye
rolling moment thrown in just because it looks cool. It kind of sums up
the whole film. (D)
