5
The undiscovered country… which they shouldn't have returned to.

The movies have depicted the hereafter in varied ways over the years.
From the bleached white warehouses of Powell and Pressburger's "A
Matter of Life and Death" in 1946 and Warren Beatty's "Heaven Can Wait"
in 1978 to – for me – the peak of the game: Vincent Ward's mawkish but
gorgeously rendered oil-paint version of heaven in 1998's "What Dreams
May Come". Joel Schmacher's 1990's "Flatliners" saw a set of "brat
pack" movie names of the day (including Kevin Bacon, Julia Roberts,
William Baldwin and Kiefer Sutherland) as experimenting trainee
doctors, cheating death to experience the afterlife and getting more
than they bargained for. The depictions of the afterlife were
unmemorable: in that I don't remember them much! (I think there was
some sort of spooky tree involved, but that's about it!)But the concept was sufficiently enticing – who isn't a little bit
intrigued by the question of "what's beyond"? – that Cross Creek
Pictures thought it worthy of dusting off and giving it another outing
in pursuit of dirty lucre. But unfortunately this offering adds little
to the property's reputation. In this version, the lead role is headed up by Ellen Page ("Inception")
who is a great actress… too good for this stuff. Also in that category
is Diego Luna, who really made an impact in "Rogue One" but here has
little to work with in terms of backstory. The remaining three doctors
– Nina Dobrev as "the sexy one"; James Norton ("War and Peace") as "the
posh boy" and Kiersey Clemons as the "cute but repressed one", all have
even less backstory and struggle to make a great impact. Also putting in an appearance, as the one link from the original film,
is Kiefer Sutherland as a senior member of the teaching staff. But he's
not playing the same character (that WOULD have been a bloody miracle!)
and although Sutherland adds gravitas he really is given criminally
little to do. What was director Niels Arden Oplev ("The Girl with the
Dragon Tattoo") thinking?In terms of the story, it's pretty much a re-hash of Peter Filardi's
original, with Ben Ripley ("Source Code") adding a few minor tweaks to
the screenplay to update it for the current generation. But I will levy
the same criticism of this film as I levied at the recent Stephen King
adaptation of "It": for horror to work well it need to obey some decent
'rules of physics' and although most of the scenes work (since a lot of
the "action" is sensibly based inside the character's heads) there are
the occasional linkages to the 'real world' that generate a "WTF???"
response. A seemingly indestructible Mini car (which is also clearly
untraceable by the police!) and a knife incident at the dockside are
two cases in point. Is there anything good to say about this film? Well, there are
certainly a few tense moments that make the hairs on your neck at least
start to stand to attention. But these are few and far between, amongst
a sea of movie 'meh'. It's certainly not going to be the worst film I
see this year, since at least I wasn't completely bored for the two
hours. But I won't remember this one in a few weeks. As a summary in
the form of a "Black Adder" quote, it's all a bit like a broken
pencil….. pointless.(For the graphical version of this review, please visit bob-the-movie-
man.com. Thanks.)
