10
Everyone's a Critic

I have read the books. I love Richelle Mead's books-and when I say
this, I mean it. I have read every one of her books (I STILL can't
believe Georgina Kincaid doesn't have her own show yet!). However,
placing my love for her as an author aside, I went to see the movie
with the notion that it would be terrible and cheesy (you saw the main
trailer right?!). It was nothing like what was in the trailer. It was
snarky, spunky and over all a good film.HOWEVER- I'm sure you've read otherwise. I've seen the critic's
reviews. I've read about how terrible (very few) people thought it was.
Let me explain it a little. They have NO idea what they're talking
about! (okay, that's my opinion and I don't mean to invalidate any one
else's but c'mon, it's awesome!) As far as visual affects go, it's
about as bad as any lower budget film. Seriously does anyone REMEMBER
the first Harry Potter? Look at the last one-total difference.
Budgeting can change a film completely. Which is Exactly what we will
see happen when this series really takes off. If you haven't read the
books, I strongly recommend talking to someone who has, they can
explain things you may have missed or don't quite understand. I don't
think that is a flaw in the movie either. We see films that aren't
adaptations from novels and miss things, or don't have any clue what
really happened until we watch it again (maybe twice?). Who hasn't
watch a film again and said 'OH! I get it now'. To wrap this up I'd
like to say that this movie is done really well.NO it does not EXACTLY
follow every sentence in the book, but they've summarized and portrayed
elements that were probably really difficult to write/act/direct. I
also take comfort in the fact that the next books just get better! And
I imagine that over time, the movies will get larger and larger
budgets, and will get new writers and more production staff (in
addition to the current ones, not replacing) in order to create the
world in it's entirety for the movie audiences. It was a great film-
don't knock it till you try it, at least that's what momma says ;)
