3
Sigh

It has finally come...yes, the final installment of the gushy
billion-dollar making series made famous by Stephenie Meyer.
Mehtunately (a cross between "unfortunately" and "fortunately"), I have
read the books and knew what to expect. Unfortunately, I have seen all
of the movies, with some different opinions. I found Eclipse to be the
best, even though it is quite mediocre. Twilight was too dull, with
boring actors, New Moon was just a repeat of that, except with wolves,
and Breaking Dawn Part 1 was two hours of three things: 1. Bella and
Edward getting married, 2. Bella and Edward having very unessential
foreplay that results in a pregnancy, and 3. Bella sitting on a couch
moaning and groaning with said pregnancy. I will say I did not have
many great expectations for this final installment. But I did see it.
It did not raise the bar, nor did it lower it. To me, it was just
another Twilight movie.Bella and Edward are now married. Hooray. They have a newborn
half-mortal half-immortal vampire baby. Hooray. Bella is now a vampire.
Hooray. The baby, or Renesmee, is the driving force of the otherwise
tedious plot of this movie. The Volturi is given false reasons to
believe that this baby will somehow, in its later life, kill many
people and expose the other world that humans don't know about. The
Cullens set out to bring in other vampire clans to defend themselves
from the Volturi. The short plot summary that you can find on the front
page of IMDb practically summarizes the entire movie: "After the birth
of Renesmee, the Cullens gather other vampire clans in order to protect
the child from a false allegation that puts the family in front of the
Volturi." You can basically just use your imagination to fill in the
blank spots. That's the whole plot. This isn't a very strong plot to
work with, and thus gave me a sense of boredom throughout the whole
movie, except for the end, but we'll get to that.The bad...well, the usual. The only new bad that I can't seem to get
away from is the pacing of this movie. The pacing was terrible. If I
were to guess, they covered the first 100 pages of the last half of the
book within the first five minutes. Each scene felt like it was missing
a beginning and an end, and the transitions between each scene were
non-existent. Along with that you have the acting, which mainly focuses
on Kristen Stewart's one facial expression. The rest of the acting is
decent, and the only good actors have very minor parts. The script
needs more to add more dialogue. Within three lines of dialogue, they
tried to cover as much as they could, and when they weren't talking
about significant things, the dialogue was weak and uninteresting. The
special effects, now, were atrocious. With the two billion dollars that
this series has made, you would think that the special effects would be
somewhat believable. Nope. I'm a very negative person, I know, and I'm
probably going to get hated on, but notice that I've given this movie a
three star rating. There was one thing in this movie that was worth
that, which if you think about it, is a lot if you are talking about a
full-length movie. The ending. There will be no spoilers, but I can
only say that the ending was absolutely sensational. They changed it
from the book in such a huge way, and such a good way, that I thought
the movie was going to redeem itself in its final half-hour. Obviously
it couldn't make up for all that was bad, but the ending was absolutely
amazing. That's all I can say.Overall, fans of the series...I mean, single teenage girls will enjoy
the final installment. It has the same elements of the other movies
that made it so popular, so there's nothing to complain about with fans
of the series. It's just not my cup of tea, but, who am I? I'm just one
person voicing his opinion.3/10
