5
Beautiful Musical Turned into a Boring TV Special

As I was a kid growing up in Italy, I remember when the national TV
channels broadcast classical operas. Even as a kid, I could understand
the efforts of the directors who had to work with what they
had---editing in real time live stage actors. Obviously, movie
directors do not have the limitation--- they can edit, dub, sync, use
CGI, and move their cameras at will, in harmony or in counterpoint to
the music. So, I was utterly disappointed when I saw that Tom Hooper
did not achieve anything better than the old-timey Italian TV directors
could do with staged opera.That is even more surprising because Hooper is working on Les
Miserables---the longest-running, most beloved musical of all time. Les
Mis contains some of the most beautiful, moving, and powerful pieces of
music ever written. And its music is layered on one of the best and
richest novel plots. With such a rich material available, Tom Hopper makes the odd decision
in concentrating all of his efforts in beautifully rich scenarios and
CGI reconstructions of Paris (one of which is bizarrely out of
perspective), and filming every single solo as a more-or-less single
shot of the close-up of the singer. With Anne Hathaway's performance,
it kind of works, but it fails with everybody else. In fact, I found
that this choice creates two kinds of problems. First, it creates an
uncanny contrast between the intensity of the performance (strengthened
by the close-ups) and the fact that, well, the characters are SINGING,
even when dying. Somehow, forcing the intensity of the acting breaks
the spell instead of strengthening it. Second, and most importantly, there is an unresolved tension between
the music and the immobility of the camera. the music drives the
feelings, and invites motion and changes. You want the camera to roll
and open spaces, and, instead, you find yourself still staring at Hugh
Jackman's wrinkles. One might say that this is some kind of ascetic
directorial decision, but no---when the characters are not singing Tom
Hooper abuses impossible camera work that zooms in and out at
impossible distances, from the detail of a face to bird's eye views of
Paris. So the reason for the poor filming of singing actors must lay
somewhere else. Maybe the root of these problems is Hooper's much
celebrated choice of having the actors sing in real-time. But, again,
why was decision made in the first place? Since it causes problems in
the final result, I see no point in recording the actors while singing
live--- if not for bragging about it later on.So, in summary, the movie was disappointing. And good performances (or
even great performances) cannot save a weak directorial work that fails
to shape the richness of the story and the music. If the director was
someone like the energetic Baz Luhrmann (Moulin Rouge! and Ballroom),
we could have had a real movie, if not a masterpiece. Instead, we got
an expensive TV Christmas special.
