8
The Drop: Low-Key Intensity and the Potential of Danger

There are a lot of films that fall into the same sort of "ilk" in the
sense that when we watch a particular movie, it gives us the same feel
as others we have seen before it. This can be a reason why someone
really enjoys it or gives the pretentious "it wasn't very original"
remark that makes you never watch a movie with that fool again. "The
Drop" brings out similar feelings, primarily because it has the feel of
many other works of the author (and writer of the script) Dennis Lehane
who is famous for works such as "Mystic River", "Shutter Island", and
"Gone Baby Gone". Right away you get a feel for those previous works as
we are again introduced to a gritty, seedy, and corrupt underbelly of a
big city environment that introduces us to a bunch of low lifes who are
caught up in doing the wrong things just to "make something of
themselves".What makes "The Drop" different from some of these other films is that
these are different characters compared to what we're used to. No one
seems to be a big talker and we can tell that all of these characters
are more than meets the eye and carry significant baggage from a
checkered past. Most films that deal organized crime and other things
ask us to witness the violence that just seems to "come with the
territory" so to speak with it. This film asks us instead to imagine
the potential for violence in a man and how brief releases of that
violence can affect how these characters live their lives in the
future. There are moments of violence and bloodshed, but they come in
such short and intense instances that they hit you harder then violence
might normally would in another film of this sort. You believe that any
of these characters is capable of beating another ones head in and when
something of that sort actually happens, it sticks with you and has a
lasting effect that carries throughout the remainder of the film.The story follows Bob Saginowski (Tom Hardy) and his Cousin Marv (the
last film of the late James Gandolfini) who run what's known as a drop
bar which simply mean that they serve as a place where mobsters leave
large amounts of illegal money to pick up at a later date. Cousin Marv
used to be a man of his own power in the organized crime world and
briefly had his own crew before he was pushed aside by an incoming
Chechen gang and now he just manages the bar with Bob. 10 years has
passed sense this change but Marv is still as bitter as ever about his
position in life. Gandolfini excels in roles like this for so many
reasons. Of course we see a little Tony Soprano in Cousin Marv but he
brings so much else to this role from his tone of voice, expression
with his eyes, and physical presence that makes the performance that
much more captivating. It's great to watch him be able to display that
intimidation factor as the "tough guy" that Marv wants to be seen as,
as well as the fear and weakness that really exists in his
heart.....all being shown through his eyes. It's the kind of
performance that has a low-key profoundness that makes you hope the
academy rewards a posthumous Oscar nomination.Hardy is no less brilliant here as the quiet and mysterious Bob. Bob is
not a big talker and just lives quietly in his own little bubble
tending bar and handling the drop. His life is changed when he finds a
wounded puppy in the trash can outside of the damaged Nadiya's (Noomi
Rapace) house. They both decide to take care of the dog together as a
potential budding romance threatens to grow. Bob has almost an instant
connection with the dog, a young pitbull, and you begin to notice
similarities between the two as the film progresses. Bob makes a
comment that a pitbull is a "dangerous dog" which is true, but almost
seems impossible to think when you see them as puppies. Bob can be
looked at the same way as the puppy in the sense of he seems harmless
but there is the potential for danger and violence deep inside both of
them. I've always found it amazing how well British actors can master
American accents compared to the other way around. Hardy especially is
a master of accents and the way he handles his blue collar, Brooklyn
speak is amazing to watch as we follow the mysterious Bob throughout
the film, always wondering what he is thinking and what he really is
about.The other stand out performance in the film comes from Matthias
Shoenaerts as the loose cannon, Eric Deeds. Shoenaerts brings a level
of intensity that is so palpable that you often become uneasy when he
is on screen. He spends the majority of the film claiming that Bob's
new dog is his and that he wants him back, as we all are questioning
what he is really after. Shoenaerts is a rising star for sure and I
can't wait to see him continue to show what he's capable of a bigger
stage. In the end, "The Drop" is most likely going to be one of those early
fall gems that falls by the wayside after a few weeks in theaters and
is unfortunately forgotten about due to poor marketing. However, it
also could be one of those small festival films that develops a cult
following after people realize how good it is for being a slightly
slower paced thriller that delivers great performances and a good
story. In a way, that almost fits perfectly into the makeup of these
characters who live in this world. Great and powerful things in small
and low-key packages
