9
An Exhilarating Showcase of Talent and Heart.

Ryan Coogler's Creed delivers on everything that a great boxing film
should, and represents a full return to form for Rocky. Directed by
superstar in the making Ryan Coogler, and starring powerful
performances from Michael B. Jordan and Sylvester Stallone the film is
amazing. Creed is exhilarating, beautifully acted, while honoring the
previous Rocky films lovingly. The film may be a little too familiar at
times, but at least approaches it's overused plot lines with a
different take.From the opening scene the film captures your attention, showing us a
glimpse into who this character is "a fighter." The film remains an
exhilarating journey with this character, who is easy to connect with.
As the film progresses, Coogler mixes old techniques like the famous
Rocky slow motion sequences, with newer (less used) techniques like
very intimate fight sequences, where the camera helps the viewer feel
like they're standing in the ring. The film will draw you in from the
moment it starts, to the moment it ends.One reason the film is so exhilarating is the terrific acting of
Michael B. Jordan, who leads this journey. Once again teaming up with
director Ryan Coogler Jordan anchors the film, and in the process
creates a relatable, and human main character. On this note, after
seeing "Creed" and "Fruitvale Station" I would be willing to make the
bold statement that I think Ryan Coogler is on his way to becoming the
next Scorsese. All of this being said what may be even more satisfying
is seeing Sylvester Stallone return to form as Rocky Balboa.Some may criticize the movie for not bringing a lot of original plot
lines to the movie, they would be right. However, while not very
original the film handles these plot lines from a different
perspective. No longer are we watching the nobody rising up against the
odds, now we see a man trying to get out of the larger than life
shadows of a man he never knew. Those who love the Rocky films
recognize the slow motion moments in almost every film, and the iconic
way the boxing matches were choreographed. Creed departs from the
overuse of slow motion and more adapts the fight choreography of Raging
Bull, while still mixing the essence of the Rocky fight scenes. The way Coogler mixes old with new in many different ways helps make
the whole film feel like the story it's telling. Coogler captures the
tone of the older Rocky films, while also making a film distinctly
different. Michael B. Jordan and Sylvester Stallone deliver, and Creed
ends up being exactly what fans hoped it would be. In the end if you
have the time go see Creed, it's a terrific 2 hours to spend.
