2
Very very disappointing although the cast is excellent

I am astonished at the rave reviews this film is getting and depressed
at how many people will now go through life with their impression of
Alan Turing and code breaking at Bletchley "informed" by this film.The plot is drivel. If you take this film at face value you will leave
believing that Turing was single-handedly responsible for just about
everything at Bletchley including the original idea for the Bombe
machine not to mention constructing it on his own in a barn,
recruitment of staff, the first breaking of any Enigma traffic, the
idea of using known words to crack messages, making strategic decisions
about whether or not to save trans-Atlantic convoys and countless other
things.Most of the film is just nonsense. There is no way that Turing would
have been in a position to decide not to save the convoy (or even know
that there was one to save). He wasn't responsible for the idea of
using standard text in messages as ways into the Enigma settings (which
had been done since before the war). The construction of the Bombe
machines was a huge exercise involving a team of technicians and parts
supplied by external manufacturers, not Turing wiring it up alone in a
barn in his shirt-sleeves. It wasn't actually even his idea; the idea
of using a machine was brought to him by Dilly Knox from pre-war ideas
worked up by a Polish team. Nor could the machine spit out deciphered
messages after a couple of minutes. Turing wasn't in charge either, he
didn't come up with ideas of using crosswords to find recruits and he
wasn't alone in writing to Churchill; several of them signed the
letter. Oh yes, and there were several women code-breakers at
Bletchley.The screenplay is also riddled with anachronisms, which just add to the
sense of "Oh this is ridiculous" throughout the film. No way would a
well brought up young lady in the 1940s say "Oh my God!" three times in
as many minutes. There are too many others to recall or mention.Benedict Cumberbatch and the rest of the cast are excellent in their
roles with the material they are given (hence two stars rather than
one) but that cannot save what is ultimately a very disappointing film.This is not a biopic of Turing, which is how it is presented, but a
nonsensical made up story tacked on to a heavy-handed political point
about homosexuality, which we all got without the banner at the end.Two hours I won't get back.
