7
Too obvious to be wholly successful

Dawson has an accident while being heroic which should have killed him
twice over. While ruminating on whether there is a reason for his
survival, he is notified of the death of Tuck who was a father figure
to him (Dawson came from a ne'er-do-well family, and Tuck took him in
and encouraged him to make something of himself. While at Tuck's for
the funeral, he meets Amanda, the rich girl who was his first love (and
he hers): despite 20 years having gone by, they discover that they both
still love each other. But Amanda is married with a family. The present
day story unfolds in parallel with the story of 20 years ago and why
and how they parted.This romantic drama has its moments despite being somewhat hampered by
clodhopping obviousness in its plotting – there are frequent moments
when something happens which leads you to assume that, as a result, XYZ
will be following in fairly short order, and so it does. This is at its
worst towards the end when Amanda's son injures a heart valve in an
accident and needs a heart transplant, following which we are served up
with a reminder (like we needed it) that Dawson must have survived his
accident for a reason. I bet I can guess what that reason is, right?
The performances are mostly fine, albeit Dawson's white trash family
are somewhat over the top. James Marsden and Michelle Monaghan as the
late 30s Dawson and Amanda are very good, as are Luke Bracey and Liana
Liberato as their teenage versions. Unfortunately, the teenagers don't
look very much like their older versions – Bracey looks like Heath
Ledger, and Liberato has a different sort of prettiness to Monaghan
(she also overdoes the vibrato in her voice during moments of high
emotion).There were some genuinely moving moments in this: there were also too
many moments when I was aware of being mechanically manipulated by
moving the story where the author wanted it to go, not where it felt it
would go naturally.
