4
Extremely disappointing

I'm a huge fan of Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz. Shaun of the Dead is
almost flawless and though Hot Fuzz is kind of slow and suffers a
little from some stupid moments, (not stupid funny, just stupid) it's
extremely charming and interesting from start to finish.The World's End starts off pretty strong, halfway through hits a point
that blows your mind to pieces, then pretty much dies.The biggest problem to me is that the movie suffers from tensionless
fight scenes that show the main middle aged drunken characters killing
everyone and everything that fights them effortlessly. There was a huge
effort put into choreography for martial arts fight scenes, but it
instantly sucked the charm out of the movie.Yes, I know it's a comedy. But Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz worked so
well as movies because what was happening (though funny)was actually
very tense and realistic. The zombies and townspeople actually posed a
threat and they struggled to overcome them. The humor came from people
behaving like people in those given situations. The fight scenes in
this movie drag for so long and just aren't very interesting (except
for the pint spilling joke.)Also there was a few moments when I just felt they could have written
it a bit better. Peter falls behind in the woods and stands there
talking to a threatening robot as all of his friends walk away, and
this is a long time after they know they are being followed. He dies,
and no one really cares. Then near the end the entire town is chasing
them and the robots are literally in front and behind them, but yet
still don't manage to stop them. And if they're robots wouldn't they
have brain power to calculate, record and send what they are doing to
one another. How did they manage to lose them? It all just seems like a
bad idea for a film. I was really enjoying it until the robot story
began.The final reveal of the movie is also pretty terrible. They literally
have to explain it for 5 minutes and it's just stupid and adds more
holes and stupidity to the plot.It definitely had some hilarious moments but for the most part I was
just not interested, and the main characters didn't seem to care that
their friends were dying and being replaced so why should I.Worth a watch, but I'll never watch it again.
