9
Extremely interesting, involving and even inspiring!

'PROFESSOR MARSTON AND THE WONDER WOMEN': Four and a Half Stars (Out of
Five)A biopic about the psychologist who created the comic book character
Wonder Woman, and the two women that he loved who inspired him (the
three had a polyamorous relationship together). The film stars Luke
Evans, Rebecca Hall and Bella Heathcote. It was written and directed by
Angela Robinson, and it's gotten mostly positive reviews from critics.
I found the movie to be extremely interesting, involving and even
inspiring. The story revolves around the Harvard psychologist, and inventor, Dr.
William Marston (Evans), and his wife Elizabeth (Hall), also a
psychologist and inventor, and their lover Olive Byrne (Heathcote), a
former student of William's. The three became involved in a very
unconventional physical and emotional relationship together, that was
heavily frowned upon by most of society. The two women, and their
feminist views, helped inspire Marston to create the comic book
character (and feminist icon) Wonder Woman, in 1941; who was also
heavily frowned upon by conservative society. The film explains how the
three dealt with their struggles together. I think it was very clever of the filmmakers to release this movie
after the huge success of the first live-action film adaptation of
'WONDER WOMAN' (one of my favorite movies this year), and it's also all
the more fascinating because of it. I'm also really interested in
domination and submission, and the film heavily deals with that subject
matter as well (which was part of the inspiration for Wonder Woman).
I'm also a big fan of rebellion, and doing what your heart tells you,
no matter how frowned upon by the rest of society it is, and this film
is definitely really inspiring in that way too. It's not a perfect
movie, I'm not a huge fan of it's score for one thing, but it's
definitely a really interesting, educational and motivational film at
least (in my opinion).Watch an episode of our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/oV2G3RUT234
