8
Finding the middle ground between comedy, violence and psychopaths

Depending on how you count, there really are seven psychopaths. Also
depending on how you count, there could be more, which is a good thing
because Marty – the lead character played by Colin Farrell not the
screenwriter Martin McDonagh – can use as many as he can find. Marty
(Colin Farrell) is an alcoholic Irish screenwriter suffering from
writer's block since Hollywood's needs and his ideals do not match up
at all."Seven Pyschopaths" the rather ingenious, well-written, violent,
hilarious, crime drama comedy does manage to find a happy medium
between what Hollywood wants and what romantic idealist Marty wants. If
you can imagine how hard it would be to find that happy medium, then
you can probably imagine how easy it would be to find detractors for
this film. They complain about the senseless violence, the meandering
story lines and the shifts in tone. But the brilliance in the
screenplay and the ensemble cast can allow many to ignore all that.Marty wants to write a character study, a meaningful one where he finds
significant life events to reflect upon to find love and happiness.
Hollywood wants an action film. One with shoot-outs with as many
characters and as many violent deaths as could possibly be included.
Marty is a gentle spirit even if he is neurotic, has a bad taste in
friends and indulges in unhealthy habits, he does want to find that
happy place in life. He relies on the chaotic, crazy and cruel world
around him, and also his chaotic, crazy and cruel friends, to provide
inspiration for his screenplay.Independent Spirit Award nominee Sam Rockwell plays Billy a manic,
ne'er-do-well who kidnaps dogs and then returns them for the reward.
His compatriot, Hans (Christopher Walken), is a philosophical old soul
who takes all the violence and craziness in stride. Their criminal
actions could catch up to them sooner rather than later when psychopath
Charlie (Woody Harrelson) has his dog stolen and he has no problem
killing everybody in his path to retrieve his precious Shih Tzu.As these great actors and psychopathic characters all come together
they provide "Seven Psychopaths" with exactly what was needed:
unrestrained shoot-outs and philosophical musings on life, love and
death. I would prefer just comedy but the script, the great actors and
the psychopathic characters provided that as well.
