2
Bad From Start to Finish

I had the unfortunate pleasure of getting to see the movie "The Purge"
at the 10 O'clock premiere last night. To be honest, going into it, I
didn't expect much. I didn't really know a lot about the film aside
from seeing a couple trailers here and there and hearing customers
blabber on about how excited they were for this movie (I work at a
movie theater). I guess the concept sounded kind of interesting, and
really, I just felt like seeing a movie I hadn't seen yet. My
expectations were blown away; the movie was worse than I had originally
assumed. "The Purge" pretty much just stinks from beginning to end.
However, it does have a few slightly redeeming factors.Okay, I lied. "The Purge" has only one redeeming factor; and it's how
hilariously bad the dialog is. As soon as the movie starts and we are
introduced to Ethan Hawke driving in his car, talking on the phone.
Right off the bat I could tell that the script for this movie was
really poorly written. All the lines sound incredibly forced and
unrealistic. For example, when Ethan Hawke first arrives home he says
something along the lines of "Hey, hey! what a long day at work!". All
of the characters, especially Ethan Hawke's character, say things one
would never say in real life. This is the one good(ish) thing about
this movie. How hilariously terrible the dialog is. I was laughing
pretty much throughout, at just about every line. Now, to be fair,
other things may have influenced my laughter, or intensified it,
rather. But overall the dialog is just completely unrealistic. Realism.
That is my biggest issue with this movie: it's lack of realism. Let us begin with perhaps the most painfully unrealistic part of "The
Purge": the plot. The idea behind this whole futuristic America is that
the Economy is down and Crime is up. It is just universally accepted
that the cause of all these problems is built up aggression within the
human population. In order to correct this, the United States
Government decides that it would be a good idea to give the public a
day to "release the aggression". So, one day of each year, they will
have an annual "Purge" where all crime is legal (including murder. They
put a lot of emphasis on murder being legal). Somehow, magically, this
does help the Economy and Crime overall is down for the rest of the
year. Because if people get out all that anger in one day, they will
not feel the need to commit any more crimes for the rest of the year..
(yeah.. right..) I'm calling bull sh*t on this one. This would never
EVER never ever ever work or even be considered in real life. I
understand that not all movies need to be realistic to be good, but
this movie is kind of trying to go for a realistic feel. It's clearly
not supposed to be a Sci Fi film. Now, not only is the dialog bad in "The Purge", but so are the
characters. The main characters throughout the movie consistently make
stupid decisions and totally change their opinions in the blink of an
eye. But the worst characters of them all have got to be "the bad
guys". I'm gonna call them "the bad guys" because there were a lot of
them, and I don't remember their names if they were even given. Without
spoiling anything (if you still want to see the movie) at one point
there is a group of people that approach the house to terrorize Ethan
Hawke and his family. This group is heavily armed and set on killing
off the filth of society or "the swine" as their leader constantly
calls them.(He also uses words like "tootaloo" and "folks") For no
particular reason they all wear clown masks, dresses, suits, etc. They
jump around, act goofy, scream, laugh and play on swing sets... I think
this was all meant to make the movie a bit more creepy and eerie, but
it just felt forced and left me cringing throughout. There was nothing
to justify why they were acting like circus performers. The ending was disappointing. There are numerous moral issues brought
up throughout the film. None of them are solved. In the end, some
people die, some people live, and it's just over. It's almost like
James DeMonaco just gave up, and couldn't figure out how to end the
movie in a decent way. So he just threw together a little stupid
humorous bit at the end. I suppose this is to be expected with James
DeMonaco though. Pretty much every project he has ever touched has been
bad. "The Purge" is not at all worth seeing. It's not scary. It's not
suspenseful. It's not realistic. It's not well written. It's not
anything. It's just terrible.
