9
An exercise in emotion and character - the best kind of exercise

The Spectacular Now is a deep exercise in emotion and character, and a
bold step in the right direction for teen films, which are becoming
decidedly more naturalistic, involved, and human. Last year, we had the
wonderful Perks of Being a Wallflower, and not two months ago we had
the strong and touching The Way, Way Back. Now we are graced with such
a wonderful look at a teenage relationship plagued by fear, alcohol,
understanding, nervousness, and uncertainty that it almost hurts.Miles Teller will be a recognizable face for some. He appeared in a
faceless role in 21 & Over this year, which I regarded as tasteless
comedy that was so heavily focused on partying and excessive
raunchiness that it became almost as nihilistic as Project X. Here, he
is the same character but given a personality and a believable,
realistic touch. Teller plays Sutter Keely, a high school senior
obsessed with living in the moment. He parties hard, drinks constantly,
anything from keg-beer to hard liquor concealed in a flask, works in
men's clothing, and discards the future as something that will just
happen. He is woken up on the lawn of someone's home by Aimee Finecky
(Shailene Woodley), a pleasantly average girl who is up early at 6am
getting ready to do her mother's paper route. Aimee's mother has been
controlling her for a long time, even potentially corrupting her
college ambition because her idea of "living in the now" is paying
bills and keeping the home straight.Sutter and Aimee strike an immediate friendship. He introduces her to
the luxury and openness of partying and drinking. She introduces him to
the wonderful and eclectic world of Manga. The film beautifully
illustrates how both parties were welcomed into a different little
world they would've never experienced if it wasn't for the other person
- and Sutter's alcoholic tendencies.But overtime, Sutter's alcoholism worsens. He clearly drinks to get
drunk, but remains functional when doing it. He starts to shun his
relationship with Aimee, being fully aware he is bad news and not the
guy she needs. She has long accepted his drinking habits because she
can see the person he is at the core - caring, harmless, and immensely
loving. Meanwhile, his ex-girlfriend comes in the picture every now and
then. Her name is Cassidy (Brie Larson) and - rather than being a
typical queen bee or spiteful ex-girlfriend - it's evident she ended
their relationship based on the frustrating inertness Sutter posses. He
doesn't have a plan and the only thing he can do when you ask him about
it is take a sip out of his personalized flask. There's no future
there.Teller and Woodley have impeccable chemistry here. Woodley, once more,
refines her role as the supporting girl with natural beauty in more
ways than one like she did in Alexander Payne's The Descendants. They
are only guided by the smooth, sensitive direction of James Ponsoldt,
whose last film, simply titled Smashed, took a look at a young, first
grade schoolteacher who was beginning to fall prey to alcoholism. Her
addiction became so brutal, she lies and says her incident of throwing
up in class is related to her untrue pregnancy and not a piercing
hangover from the night before. The film showed how one's addiction to
the bottle can compromise their life. Ponsoldt's follow-up effort is
more about showing how the bottle (or flask in this case) can
compromise a perfectly beautiful friendship.Writers Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber make this a surprising
tone piece, one that is more concerned with the loquacious behavior of
teens rather than the raunchy behavior. A tremendous scene focuses on
Sutter and Aimee walking away from a keg-party on the beach, deep into
the woods, talking about their homelife and their favorite things in
life. The scene is a four-to-five minute static shot and develops
character nonchalantly and not forcefully, allowing for the naturalism
to just sneak up on the audience. This isn't the only scene with Sutter
and Aimee that tackle beautiful touching and realistic instances. Take
for example the scene where they go to have sex. "Take your shirt off"
she innocently says, and after he does - successfully exposing an
ordinary male body - she follows, exposing another ordinary body and a
white bra. When he giggles, just because of the circumstances, she
tenderly covers up her bare midriff with her arms, to which he responds
by lightly removing them from her stomach. They proceed to have sex in
a blissfully unpredictable manner, deeply fixated on the bodies and the
intimacy - not the nudity. This is another bold instance that will
resonate and be remembered by teens more-so than the average sex scene
in comedies, where breasts and hilarity are the only thing that
matters.The Spectacular Now's one minor missteps results when it gets too
caught up with Sutter's story of being raised by a single mother who
closets information on his father that it kind of forgets that Aimee is
a major character here as well. We know Aimee's mom is controlling
because she says so, but never do we see Aimee stand up to her or take
action to her mother's dictative qualities. Equal humanization would've
been divine seeing that humanization alone is one of the film's major
goals.The film concludes on yet another bold note, cementing that Neustadter
and Weber didn't want to say too much. Much of the film operates on
deep, character emotion, so attaching an ending that neatly packages
things up would've been a complete contradiction to the film's focus. I
initially thought some would be upset with the film's ending, saying it
cheats the audiences, but if they were brave enough to seek out a
smaller film of this magnitude, they shouldn't be disgruntled that it
plays different instruments than other films of the same genre.
