2
Big Brother Says 100% Of Viewers Loved It, Honest!

Spoilers Ahead:First, not since You Only Live Twice have I nodded off during a Bond
movie. You think you have seen slow have you? Well, pony up to the bar,
buddy, this is the big leagues of boring. When I read these positives,
I remember that studios own all the media outlets today including
papers. Forgive me IMDb, but I notice that movies that are currently in
the theaters seem to have numbers much higher than after they are gone
from the cinemas. In short, the reviews are bought and paid for like
everything else in the global oligarchs' reality. Yes, my friends,
conglomerates own papers that review the movies that are also
subsidiaries of these very same multinationals. The elephant in the
room, for those of you reading this in the back, after IMDb cashes that
big check, is that this movie makes Lawrence Of Arabia look like Shoot
Em Up. Eternal travel, here to there, there to here, on and on ad
freaking infinitum. The theater I saw this in had a steady stream of
grumbling about fifteen minutes into the film. This grew louder and
more obscene; then, the exodus began in earnest. The plot has been used
before in about a dozen recent movies (Jack Ryan) the tired old
information total control. Show of hands, who thinks that the NSA isn't
reading this review as I freaking type it? See, the classic Bonds,
especially when they feature effeminate P's as their villains(
Moonraker) have genocide as the plot, that is interesting.Oh, no! They are going to get access to all the intelligence networks,
stop the presses. Waltz is a dwarf who is about as frightening as my
dirty underwear. He prattles on, as he did in Inglorious Retards, until
I begin throwing food from my plate at the screen. Boring and Not
Scary. See, the original Blofeld was quite kind right before he killed
you( Diamonds Are Forever). Pee-Wee could only talk someone to death
that is the sum of his intimidation. I see others have highlighted the
bizarre fight with Bautista, this is the same all through the movie.
Fights without injury, blowing one's brains out with no blood or gore;
the movie's sense of reality is painful. Compare to For Your Eyes Only
when that hot woman gets run over. To those of you reading the paid
reviewers up front, do not believe the crap: it sucks A@@. Perhaps a
handful of comic book readers think they are watching something
profound, I doubt it. Don't believe me? Go look at the IMDb rating for
the new crappy Star Wars that has 97% bad reviews yet an IMDb rating of
8.4? Trust me, you don't need a degree in Math to see corruption, it is
right there. I know other people who have seen this and, out of six, there was one
person who barely liked it but said it was boring in parts. C has the
charisma of a clam. Blofeld and C are perfect together both are not
frightening but chatter on endlessly. How about the dumb ass ending?
Here is a man who admits being responsible for M's, Vespers, Mathis,
and plenty of others' deaths and what does our icy, sociopathic, nasty
bastard Bond do? He lets him live, yes, they need him in future movies.
Please, the Bond of Casino Royale would have shot him in the legs
working his way slowly up to the vital areas while eating some caviar.
Yes, fan-boys, that is just what this Bond would do to the villain who
killed Vesper and M, let him live. This is an example of how retarded
the writing is: boring, pointless, uninteresting, non-threatening and
contradictory. Yes, that's right, in Quantum Bond kills anybody
remotely connected with Vesper's death but here, the only two people he
cared for's killer and he walks freaking away. My friends, I signed off of IMDb after Star Wars, because I realize,
like all media sites, this one is corrupt like every other one. When
you read reviews in papers or on sites, remember giant corporations own
the papers that review the movie companies' movies that they also own.
How objective do you think they are going to be? I still will read many
of your reviews but I refuse to contribute because it is so obviously
corrupt. Go see it or buy it, don't say I didn't warn you. I have all
the Bonds but I will not buy this one. Big Brother says it is
thought-crime. Sorry. Deus Vobiscum. IMDb. Q.E.D."In A Time Of Universal Deceit, Telling The Truth Is A Revolutionary
Act." George Orwell
