2
Terrible script but magnificent directing

The movie started off visually stunning, every object moved smoothly as
if in zero-gravity, it had great compositions, relaxing atmosphere,
camera moved slow enough to not cause dizziness, and around enough to
give us the feel of being in space. Our characters were introduced to
us with great pace, showing little details of their background. Then it
went downhill.The rest of the movie insults the intelligence of all astronauts, all
of us viewers, and all space programs. It was breach after breach of
protocol, blunders, and plot-holes. Basically, stupidity moved the plot
forward.-- spoiler alert --After the alien life-form showed aggression, broke a guy's hand, which
resulted in him losing consciousness, what do you expect our team of
highly intelligent, strictly disciplined, best of the best of humanity,
would do? breaking protocol #1, instead of incinerating the box and containing
the aggressive alien, they did nothing. They watched as the aggressive
creature took its time to escape the box.breaking protocol #2, instead of incinerating the lab module, they
opened the door, got another person stuck inside, and watched him die
too, still not incinerating the lab. Why? for the sake of convenient
plot device.blunder #3 air vents suddenly opened! And it could not be closed! oh
no! with a dead guy in the lab, what do 4 of our most intelligent
people did? send one person to close the air vent one by one. why are
they still not incinerating the lab? help me. IS all the talk about firewall 1 (incinerate box) and firewall 2
(incinerate lab) just talk? sure, spend 10 minutes discussing firewall
1 and firewall 2 then conveniently forget to do either when needed to
move the plot along.plot-hole #4 dangerous murderous alien who went to hibernation after a
minor turbulence at the ISS , is suddenly able to freely waltz outside
the ISS in vacuum.breaking protocol #5 In the event of murderous creature on the loose
outside of ISS, our group of intelligent astronauts decided to send one
person to die by walking around outside ISS.Killer alien then attaches to said astronaut walking outside. BIG
surprise, like seriously, what did you expect would happen?breaking protocol #6 At that point, our intelligent astronaut was still
trying to save herself, trying to get back into ISS, thinking perhaps
the rest of the crew can get it off of her. Only in the last dramatic
minute when she is supposed to open the door did she decide, oh,
actually, it is better that I keep this dangerous alien outside of ISS,
because most likely it will just kill everyone inside if it re- enters.
Now we have a cheap thrilling/emotional moment where she sacrificed
herself.plot-hole #7 after killing the astronaut, alien decided to discard the
life source it just got: the cooler liquid in the spacesuit and the
glucose inside the astronaut's body. Instead of latching on to food, it
decided to get back in the ISS. This could still be explained by saying
it has developed enough intelligence to know deep space is dangerous,
but I doubt after 6 consecutive, stupid plot devices, that the
scriptwriter put more thought to it than just "it would be thrilling if
it tried to get back into the spaceship now."plot-hole #8 alien knows exactly how to get back into ISS. Viewers were
just explained that there are 6 thrusters where it can get back in.blunder #9 stupidly burn what little of remaining fuel to temporarily
stop alien coming in, and at the same time, get ISS into entry orbit.
Just what we should expect from our intelligent astronauts, throw away
what little resources they have to temporarily keep a dangerous
creature out while moving orbit into earth (sarcasm).#10 after this much danger and breach of protocol, our remaining female
lead astronaut decide it is still not time to announce that they should
contain the alien in ISS, and prepare to sacrifice themselves. This
leaves our Japanese astronaut to expect rescue.This expectation to be rescued allowed our Japanese astronaut to
accidentally set alien free, kill himself, and kill one random new
astronaut.#11 alien never split itself up to kill multiple targets even though it
is a cellular organism.#12 escape pod conveniently malfunctioned and propelled the other
astronaut into deep space. Then conveniently work as intended in pod
with alien inside.#13 alien did not kill astronaut for the whole 15 minutes of him in
escape pod. A gruesome body would have deterred the fisherman from
opening the pod.---Such lazy script! What a waste of great shots! I left feeling drained,
dumb, and stressed. Save yourselves and skip this movie.
