10
Gary - you're free

The Smashing Pumpkins may have mused that 'The End is the Beginning is
the End,' but Edgar Wright knew better. He knew that for his beloved
'Cornetto Trilogy,' he would need an ending that could somehow tie up
all of its strains of manic, voracious genre pastiche, savage wit and
silliness, and, most importantly, its symphony to the reluctant aging
of the schlubby, post- Shaun adult male. He knew he needed to do
something special.So, in the words of Shaun, "what do you mean, DO something?" Well,
getting the old gang together for a nostalgia-fuelled 'one last job'
pub crawl, charged with more emotional weight and subtext than meets
the eye should about do it. In this regard, Cornetto #3 is by far the
most personal, mature, reflective, bittersweet and cognizant film in
Wright's oeuvre. It knowingly winks at his past works (don't forget to
say hi to Brian, Marsha, and Tires, listen for the fruit machine, and
enjoy an appropriately sly Cornetto cameo), while introducing some of
his most hysterically snappy wordplay yet ("maybe it's a windoor...!").
And, as no Wright film could ever be that straightforward, it's also,
naturally, about the end of the world. Duh.To some, The World's End will be a cracking sci-fi pastiche - Invasion
of the Body Snatchers handled with the chilly British terseness of The
Day of the Triffids. To others, it's a riotous, boozy action-comedy
with a kickass set of tunes, and prime viewing before hitting the pub
(or several) with your mates. All of these things are true. But for me,
it will always be a film about growing up. A film about finding
closure, and purpose. A film about coming home and moving on at once. A
film encouraging the Gary King in all of us to make peace with friends,
the past, the future, and ourselves. It's the perfect filmic
encapsulation of playing James Bond video games in my adolescent
basement. And it's a film about pursuing your dreams, even - nay,
especially - if your dreams are pointless, idiotic, and involve a
sh*t-ton of drinking.Things get going at an almost ponderously slow and repetitive pace,
forcing the viewer to be bludgeoned by Gary King, alongside his
estranged high school buddies, into going on his quest with him. The
tone is fun, but with a bit of an edge, Pegg bravely playing obnoxious
at full tilt, keeping it unclear as to whether you can or should like
him. But, upon arriving in the impossibly quaint Newton Haven (and here
Wright coins the most on-the-nose term for cultural assimilation and
the dearth of family-run local business: "Starbucking". Remember that
theme; it'll come in handy later), things pick up, and then some. Here,
King's raucous enthusiasm becomes almost worrisome, especially in
contrast with his bemused buddies, all more content to act their ages.
Thankfully, the sci-fi framework comes to the rescue right when King is
on the cusp of having to be serious. The solution, like fellow
extraterrestrial alcoholicomedy Grabbers? Keep drinking - to "blend
in", of course. And, as the Doors kick in, that's where the fun really
begins.Wright's characteristic swish-pans and dynamic sound effects, paired
with some of the most intricately crunchy fight choreography seen in
ages make The World's End thrilling in the most visceral sense. There's
no purer cinematic joy than a long-take tracking shot of Pegg weaving
in and out of a chaotic robot throwdown, stepping on bar stools and
counter tops, sipping his pint and throwing the occasional like a tipsy
Buster Keaton, and it's impossible not to share in Wright's glee. The
robot designs are eerily simple, the pace and physical slapstick are
howlingly perfect, while the grim, sepia lighting is perfectly
atmospheric for the intensifying sci-fi peril and slurring melodrama
unfolding. And the climactic, belligerent belch of a speech demanding
agency on behalf of the human race? I dare you to find more galvanizing
words.Gary King is a courageously different Simon Pegg than has been
unleashed before, and his manic energy, boundless but strained charisma
and desperate arrogance make for his most achingly human (but still
hilarious) creation yet. Nick Frost also digs into unforeseen dramatic
meat, pairing his juggernaut physical comedy with real pain and
hard-won regret, all the funnier for being so truthful. There's also a
gag involving him (literally) punching a clock which may be the
funniest in Wright's oeuvre. Paddy Considine and Martin Freeman
collectively ace the two sides of the middle-aged-hipster coin
(post-meathead athletic emotional sensitivity and antiquated,
bluetoothed tech-speak respectively), while Eddie Marsan finds both
huge laughs and the most raw hangdog pathos in the sweetness of Peter
Page. Sadly, in the film's only real fault, Edgar's boys club has no
proper room for Rosamund Pike, and it's a real shame, as she's on
typically superb form, and amiably hilarious to boot. As this
instalment's former-007-turned- villain-with-uncomfortable-facial-hair,
Pierce Brosnan tweaks his debonair charm and silky Irish accent to
their most calmly sinister, while the inevitable Bill Nighy is
deliciously bemused as a big lamp who just won't f*ck off back to
Legoland.The World's End (or, as everyone should henceforth refer to it,
'Smashy-Smashy-Egg-Men'), is not only a stupendously satisfying
Cornetto resolution. It's perfectly paced, technically flawless,
thrilling, hugely fun, and bravely emotional romp. It's arguably the
funniest and most real mediation on friends, homecomings, and befuddled
male aging to date. It's a belligerently, obstinately, chaotically,
damn good film. It's something truly special. So hop into the Beast,
blare those Soup Dragons, and ride Wright's beautiful disaster all the
way to the bitter end. Or lager end. Because, be honest: what could be
a more heartfelt answer to Primal Scream's recurring query - "Just what
is it that you want to do?"-10/10
