1
More Horr-ible - than Horror

This movie feels like a whole bunch of graduating film students, armed
with their folders of "film theory", decided it would be a good idea to
make a feature film out of a short film. Bad idea. *this review may contain spoilers*This is the first horror film I've seen that is depressing. Depressing!
If I wanted to see a bleak, psychologically unhinged film with way too
many metaphors, I would have picked something else. I read such great
reviews all over the net I thought I would buy it and settle in for a
night of scares. pfft! my grandmother is scarier than this film.It feels like we come in halfway through the setup. A seriously
annoying and badly behaved kid and a mother already strung out and at
wit's end. It doesn't endear empathy - I spent the first half hour
being annoyed AT the film for all the caterwauling and shrillness. I
did not empathise with the characters. Don't blink or you'll miss the
reason - a one line explanation of what happened six years ago. There
was no recent catalyst that triggered off the forthcoming events, no
explanation of why they would find the book at this time, it just...
'happened'. Dreary, miserable, slow, predictable and overly symbolic with no
relief. If you wanted to study this film in a course, it ticks all the
boxes to endlessly psychoanalise the mind of the mother about whether
it is real or some sort of delayed PTSD manifesting as the "the monster
in the closet". I understand why they chose the set design to be washed
out and shadowy but it didn't change with any action either - there was
no high contrast in the scenes outside of the house as to inside the
house. No sense of The real world vs the internal struggle. It was just
all dull and draining to watch. and the dog. really? gratuitous and unnecessary. I was looking forward to this film but as an entertainingly good horror
movie - I didn't expect I'd have to 'read' it. The Babadook failed to impress on either a horror or macabre level.Not even bad enough to be good.
