9
A rare triple-threat genre film

Horror tension, mystery tension and racial tension blend together into
a gripping and formidable nail-biter in "Get Out," the astonishing
directorial debut of Jordan Peele. The former half of the comedy duo
"Key & Peele" has found a way to both honor and subvert the thriller
and horror genres in a way that's unmistakably modern. In the tradition of "The Stepford Wives" with the twist of "Guess Who's
Coming to Dinner?," the story follows a young black man named Chris
(Daniel Kaluuya) who goes to meet his girlfriend, Rose's (Allison
Williams) parents at their fancy estate where things go from slightly
uncomfortable in terms of Chris being black to deeply messed up in one
slow but inevitable fell swoop.With a creepy opening scene showing a different black man getting
abducted in a peaceful-seeming suburb, the tone is set immediately that
there's cause for concern. Luckily for Chris, Rose is really sensitive
to issues of race and prejudice, and even when her parents (Bradley
Whitford and Catherine Keener) or brother (Caleb Landry Jones) seem to
make Chris' blackness into a thing, the two handle it as best as any
interracial couple could. The warning signs come in the form of the
Armitage family's black help, maid Georgina (Betty Gabriel) and
groundskeeper Walter (Marcus Henderson), whose behavior is anything but
normal.Peele sets a tone of creepiness largely with the help of composer
Michael Abels, also making his feature film debut. The unpredictable
nature of Georgina and Walter as characters, the ever-increasing
suspicion of all the white characters and the way Peele keeps you
nervous about who or what is just outside the frame fuel the fear and
paranoia as well as if not better than any horror movie featuring more
overtly malevolent forces does.Kaluuya, in a role that will deservedly put him on the map, gives a
performance that will connect with viewers who identify with Chris as a
man trying to feel comfortable while out of his element experiencing
strange things, and those who truly understand Chris' experience as a
man of color undergoing the very same events. It would be fascinating
to know the different ways a black viewer would experience the film
compared to a white one, but the most important thing is that everyone
will identify with and feel for Chris.When a little horror film debut like this one gets talents such as
Whitford, Keener and Williams, you know the script is good. Peele keeps
up the air of mystery a long time even without packing in very many
unexpected twists. The awareness of something being wrong but not quite
understanding what it going on or why despite getting new information
is a real strength of Peele's writing. Then of course there's the
brilliant ways that race and the black experience make it into the
film. If that weren't enough, Chris' best friend (LilRel Howry)
provides comic relief in a way that's stereotypical, yet Peele uses him
in unexpected ways. So we get to benefit from Peele's nose for comedy
as well.Not everything adds up by the end of "Get Out," but the film plays out
in extremely satisfying fashion. Fans of horror and fans of thrillers
who don't mind horror when it's done well should both enjoy the
technique and experience. It provides thrills of the pulse-pounding,
thrill-seeking and thought-provoking variety and few genre films can
say the same.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit Movie Muse Reviews for more
