4
A Spectacular Failure

Adapting famous and well-respected classic literature can't be easy.
The film industry's track record attests to this: for every Ran, there
are five misfires that people quickly forget. The filmmakers behind
this year's adaptation of The Great Gatsby make the task seem
impossible. This movie is a disaster.Much has been made of director Baz Luhrmann's overblown style in The
Great Gatsby, but that is just one of the movie's many issues.
Actually, let's start with the production design. This movie is super
polished and glamorous, but everything looks so blatantly fake. CGI
stands in for actual set design and shooting locations. One of the
movie's few redeeming features is the scope of the production, but even
that is unimpressive when considering most of the movie was made on a
computer. Admittetly, the costumes and makeup/hair look nice, and the
movie will surely receive some award attention in that department. The script and the acting are where The Great Gatsby really falls
apart. There is no depth of character for anybody involved. The central
three characters don't come across as real people. Nick Carraway has
nothing to do but stand around and watch Gatsby and Daisy court each
other. His frequent narration is baffling pointless, often describing
the events exactly as they happen or directly telling the audience the
movie's themes, as if we are too stupid to notice them. Carraway
frequently stands in the corner watching the action unfold, instead of
driving the plot forward with any interaction with other characters.
This is a huge problem because Carraway serves as the main protagonist
(Gatsby isn't introduced for over 20 minutes). Gatsby and Daisy don't
fair any better. Their romance takes up the majority of the screen time
in acts two and three, but there is no chemistry, nor do they display
any emotional connection with each other. Instead, Gatsby and Daisy
just tell each other how they feel with laughably clunky dialogue.
There are no scenes showing the intense feelings they supposedly have
for each other. They speak at each other instead of having actual
conversations.The actors cannot handle the script's horrible dialogue. The central
three actors (Maguire, DiCaprio, and Mulligan) deliver the cornball
dialogue with misplaced self- serious melodrama, making many of the
conversations draw laughter from the audience. Several members of the
supporting cast take the material and ham it up, causing a jarring
inconsistency in tone. Lurhmann shows no motivation to rein in his
actors.Speaking of the supporting cast, some of the prominent characters from
the first act completely disappear for most of the movie. The only
person who shows some level of depth and complexity is Elizabeth
Debicki's Jordan Baker, but she vanishes for over an hour, before
coming back to do absolutely nothing. Isla Fisher's Myrtle Wilson
suffers a similar fate.The use of music should be mentioned, if only because it is drawing
some criticism. Using modern music in this movie wasn't a bad idea, but
the execution is nothing remarkable. Instead of using contemporary pop
for any dramatic or stylistic purpose, it just seems like Lurhmann
picked some songs off his ipod and threw them into the movie.The Great Gatsby is a failure on nearly all levels. It's individual
flaws could be overlooked if the movie came together to form something
cohesive and meaningful, but the whole affair feels hollow. Any
symbolism or larger thematic goals get lost in the glossy extravagance.
The filmmakers seem to be aware of this, so they pound the themes into
the viewers with nothing resembling subtlety or grace. It's truly
baffling how anybody in Hollywood could green-light a script this poor,
and then throw millions of dollars at the production. The Great Gatsby
is a soulless movie that covers up its lack of passion and heart with
computer generated spectacle. All signifying nothing.
