7
Stephen Lang is perfect, the movie very suspenseful.

Three burglars find out about a blind army vet, living in an abandoned
street, sitting on a huge amount of cash. The three burglars break
their rule of not stealing cash and decide to rob the place, thinking
it would be a piece of cake. And of course it isn't. The blind army vet
isn't as helpless as they had hoped for.Don't Breathe is directed by Fede Alvarez, who also co-wrote the
screenplay with Rodo Sayagues. They obviously felt inspired by David
Fincher's Panic Room (2002), and did come up with a great, suspenseful
movie. The three burglars are played by Jane Levy, Dylan Minnette and
Daniel Zovatto, who all do a great job. Stephen Lang however outshines
everyone in this movie as the old blind man. He doesn't say a lot but
his gestures and mimics were enough to be uncomfortably creepy. Even
though he played a blind guy, he still made his character seem anything
but helpless, on the contrary, his character was more menacing than any
ghost, monster or murderer from your average horror movie. On the other
hand however, you feel sorry for the blind man. He's simply a man
trying to protect his house from burglars. Or is there more behind this
man? The movie does a good job making you wonder about whether the
blind man has something to hide or not. The movie does a poorer job
however with Daniel Zovatto's character, he's the typical character
every horror movie has: the asshole that talks too much and doesn't
care about anything or anyone.Besides one or two cheap jump scares, the movie succeeded at
maintaining a lingering suspense throughout the entire movie. Once the
three burglars are inside the house, there won't be a moment that
you'll feel at ease. This is an edge-of-your-seat kind of movie. The
movie opens with a scene that obviously takes place later in the movie,
which alerts you that until that scene, the burglars will never be
safe, and heightens the suspense even more.As the movie progresses, the twists and turns in the story start to
accumulate. Twists and turns in a story are great but not if there are
too many, and not if these twist and turns are the ones you might
expect from a horror movie. Throughout its course, the movie becomes
more and more predictable. And this is where the suspense, although
still being present, lessens. 'Don't Breathe' is a great horror movie, accessible for people who
don't usually enjoy the genre. It has a great premise and is very
suspenseful but becomes a bit too predictable over time.
