4
Should have stopped at 3

Question: How many top entertainers does it take to make an animated
film? Answer: Apparently a whole slew of them. I guess the directors of
this film thought that the more celebrities, the better the film would
be. Not!! But I guess it did make for a pretty decent paycheck.
Compared to other animated films of the summer, this one lacks in
originality and freshness. I think the lessons that were trying to be
conveyed in this film was a little too complicated for the very young
crowd that was in the theater with me. The parts of the film that got
the most laughs were every time the spotlight was put on Scrat (Chris
Wedge). Even in the Ice Age predecessors, he was always the funniest.
Maybe it is time for Scrat to get his own film. The young audience did
not need dialog they just wanted to laugh. The other character that
drew a lot of giggles was Sid (John Leguizamo). Sid along with Granny
(Wanda Sykes) was a comedic match made in heaven. I saw an interview
that Wanda did and initially she wanted to change her voice to sound
older, but the director told her that her voice was perfect for the
part. I think that she got a chuckle out of that. I do want to mention
Peter Dinklage (Captain Gutt). He seems to be getting a lot of
attention since he won a SAG and an Oscar for his portrayal of Tyrion
Lannister in Game of Thrones. I have to say that by the end of the film
I grew a little weary of Captain Gutt. He was really starting to get on
my last nerve. Peaches (Keke Palmer) was a typical teenager that had to
deal with peer pressure, parental rules and misguided decision making.
The hate/love relationship that built between Diego (Denis Leary) and
Shira (Jennifer Lopez) did manage to give the film a little extra
punch, but not much. The film wasn't all bad. There were a few laughs;
however this franchise has been saturated. I definitely think that it
is time to put this one to bed. I think that very young viewers will
appreciate the animation and maybe pre-teens will get the message, but
this film was not designed to do both. All that being said, I am going
to have to give this film a mammoth amber light.
