6
Not nearly as good as the first.

Age of Ultron is the sequel to "The Avengers". And I can assure you,
that movie was a lot better. Age Of Ultron is not a good movie. Is it a
bad movie? NO! Is it a good movie? NO! It is a disappointment, not even
close to how good the first was, and a overrated excuse for a film! I
will give a list of pros and cons.Pros:1. It is a competent enough movie. Almost all the cgi is good, the
fight scenes are also usually good, and it doesn't feel rushed or
anything. It is competent.2. Hawkeye is made better. Hawkeye, the weakest character in the first
one, is the only strong character in this one. I actually care about
him now, he has development now, and his actor is good in this movie as
well.3. The first twenty minutes are good.Cons:1. Bad performances. All of the actors suck in this movie, with the
exception of Hawkeye. The worst two by far are, Elizabeth Olsen and
Aaron Taylor Johnson. Both of their Russian accents are bad. Like
really bad. My best German accent sounds more Russian than their
Russian ones. 2. Aaron Taylor Johnson. Seriously the guy is a bad actor. He hasn't
had a single good performance yet, and he probably never will. The guy
is the worst part of every movie he is in. Seriously, I've seen better
actors on Barney.3. Ultron. Ultron is bad. You expect him to be a cold, brutal,
intelligent villain. But he is like almost every other character in
this movie. CRACKING A JOKE EVERY FEW MINUTES! Its horrible. Ultron was
a disappointment.4. The forced in love story. Black Widow and Hulk are horrible
together. They weren't like this in the first movie, and in this one it
is cheesy. AND IT FEELS FORCED!5. The Final Fight: Boring and bland. The only thing they fought were
robots. The only thing I was worrying about was Quicksilver and Ultron
surviving. And thankfully, neither did.Final Verdict:6.3/10 (Above Average)It is mediocre, and only slightly better than movies like Suicide Squad
and Batman v Superman. Major disappointment, it should've been a 8/10
at the minimum. A movie I would recommend instead is, "The Avengers".
