9
I FREAKING LOVED this movie!!!!

The Cabin in the Woods is a spin on the horror genre from writer's Joss
Whedon and Drew Goddard, without giving away the spoilerish parts of
the plot, I'll simply say that it involves 5 friends who fit the horror
movie stereotypes (Jock, Slut, Party-Guy, Nerd, Virgin) who go to a
cabin in the woods to party and get away from it all. Trouble is, its
never really safe to go to a cabin in the woods is it?To be honest, the less you know about this film, the more awesome it
will be. I felt that the trailer gave away a bit too much of the twists
and turns one can expect from the film, but at the same time the image
of a bird flying into a giant forcefield is what will set this film
apart from the generic horror films that hit the theatres today. The
Cabin In The Woods tells you upfront "You think you know the story..."
but of course you don't. This is Joss Whedon after all. Fans of Buffy
and Angel will get a kick out of this, as actors from that universe
make their way into this film.It's been a long time since I've had a lot of fun at the movies and the
Cabin in the Woods was a lot of fun. It's an odd movie to sell, because
a lot of it has to be kept secret to make the second half of the movie
exciting and fresh. It blends a few genres together, the two main ones
being horror and comedy and it works perfectly. Both Whedon and Goddard
worked on Buffy and Angel, which was a balancing act of genres, so they
knew the right tone to get here and they nailed it. They take the
clichéd aspects of every horror film and put it in here, to brilliant
use. We actually get to see reasons for stupid character mistakes,
which made that whole aspect of the film fun. Richard Jenkins and Bradley Whitford have great chemistry together and
stole every scene they're in. I would love to see these two character
actors work together again, they made this film really fun and they are
a joy to watch on the screen. The young actors, including Thor himself
Chris Hemsworth, sell the clichéd horror characters very well. In most
horror flicks I can't stand any of the characters, here I was rooting
for all of them.There are some truly hilarious moments, I am dying to talk about them,
but doing so would ruin the surprises. All I can say is that I was
laughing throughout the entire film, I cheered, I clapped and I enjoyed
myself. There are a lot of horror references, most notably The Evil
Dead, so it's fun to spot things here and there. Horror fans I think
will really get a kick of of this flick and I pray it does well, cause
it's the most fun I've had in a long time. Drew Goddard's first directorial gig, he had a lot on his plate and he
managed to pull off one hell of a film. It helps when you have someone
like Joss Whedon in your corner, but I applaud him for being able to
pull off the tone perfectly, I imagine the script to screen process was
identical. This is a very clever script, with laughs, gore and
surprises at every corner. When you have Goddard, whose worked on
Buffy, Angel, Lost and wrote Cloverfield, teamed up with partner Joss
Whedon who is one of the best writers working today, then you know
you're walking into something special. I can't recommend this flick
enough. When it comes out, you must go see it. Just makes sure you don't know much about it beforehand, or it might
ruin the awesome factor.
