6
Small Issue Over Palpebral Tissue.

As Walter Keane forty years ago, Christopher Waitz is accused of
pandering to the lowest common denominator in the art world. He throws
up his hands and screams, "What is WRONG with the lowest common
denominator?" In today's Zeitgeist? We need a sensible answer more than
ever.I can accept "Big Eyes" on the molar level but not the molecular. That
is, I can believe that Walter Keane, a born showman, began exhibiting
his wife Margaret's successful Big Eye paintings as his own. There were
arguments. They divorced. Margaret revealed that she was the artist
behind the work and won a suit against him. Walter died "bitter and
penniless" and Margaret "continues to paint to this day," as the
epilogue tells us.I don't accept the molecular structure. I don't think Margaret was
really imprisoned in a smoky attic to grind out her many paintings. I
don't believe Walter threatened to have her bumped off if she squealed.
I don't believe that Walter, drunk and enraged, followed them through
the house, flipping lighted matches at Margaret and her daughter out of
jealousy while they shuddered in fear. That's a little generic, isn't
it? "The drunken wife abuser?" I could believe it if the film showed us
a conspiracy between Walter and Margaret, cackling as they collected
their massive amounts of dough and bought the mansion in the suburbs,
away from North Beach. Then I could believe bitter arguments followed
over not just credit but pelf.North Beach, 1957. That was some place. I was there at the time and it
was thrilling, what with the emergence of the Beatniks, Bufano's
penguins and all that. I patronized many of the places mentioned and I
can recommend Vanessi's Restaurant as still a superb dining experience.
I remember too the commotion over Walter Keane's fight with Enrico
Banducci, proprietor of the Hungry i, where I saw The Gateway Singers
render a song in Yiddish.I remember too the sudden avalanche of Big Eye paintings. They were all
over the place. You couldn't escape them. I was at the time a humble
enlisted man at a Coast Guard radio station in San Bruno. My mates were
a proletarian bunch with a sprinkling of geniuses. When the Keane
painting began appearing, we all laughed at them because even in our
lowbrow circles we could tell they STANK. Rough-hewn young men who had
never gotten through high school (and never deserved to) found them to
be a joke.They're still a joke, as this movie is a joke on everyone who took
these works at all seriously. They've been endlessly parodied since.
And it's amusing for Tim Burton to play visiting art aficionados as
pansies gasping at the intensity of a painting of some kid in a
tattered dress with eyes like dinner plates, a tear coursing through
the dust of one cheek.The movie is based on an interesting premise: who gets credit for
expensive kitsch? But it devolves quickly into a soap opera of an
abused woman fighting for empowerment. The movie goes out of its way to
link this tabloid story to the oppression of women everywhere in 1960.
"Does your husband allow you to work?", asks an employer. "Let your
husband make the decisions," advises a priest. We're no longer in 1957
-- especially not 1957 San Francisco -- but back in 957 AD. What's a
millennium here and there? There's been criticism of the performances
but I don't know why. Amy Adams does just fine as the oppressed,
whimpering wife, all clammed up, as the script requires, and there is a
long withheld smile of satisfaction and revenge as she humiliates her
ex husband in court. One reviewer claimed she wore too much makeup.
Well, yes, for our tastes now.The movie wouldn't be what it is without the performance of Christopher
Waitz. He's amazing -- outrageously over the top. He cackles, he waves
his arms expansively, he shouts instead of speaking, he tells wild
stories, and his German accent lends a surreal quality to every line,
whether angry or palliative.The photography shows us a city and its innards in lurid colors, as in
a cartoon or a Twentieth-Century Fox musical, saturated and blinding,
and it suits the story like a substrate suits its enzyme.
