7
Moving and powerful  Western , including strong drama along with impressive cinematography  and emotive musical score

Riveting film about a spinster , a drifter and a peculiar promise ,
being slickly developed by actor-director Tommy Lee Jones . Starring
Hilary Swank returns to the heights of a career that saw her win two
Best Actress Oscars by the age of 30 . This is her most recent film ,
The Homesman in which she starred opposite Tommy Lee Jones , John
Lithgow , Meryl Streep , James Spader , among others . Here Tommy Lee
Jones's acting and direction are magnificent and remaining cast is
pretty well , giving terrific performances . This above average film
concerns about a pious , independent-minded woman called Mary Bee Cuddy
(Hilary Swank) is assigned by the village priest (John Lightow) to
carry three women (Miranda Otto , Sonja Richter , and Grace Gummer ,
Meryl's Streep daughter) who have been driven mad by pioneer life .
They have to be transported across the country by a covered wagon . The
two-fisted woman obstinately carries out the dangerous assignment and
in turn employs low-life drifter George Briggs (Tommy Lee Jones) to
assist her . She forces the drifter for to a journey across the plains
to locate the risked destination . Both of whom are determined to find
the paths , through the prairies plagued by savage Indians , until the
easy civilization . This journey will bring forward the stark contrast
between the values of two ways of life and the landscape transversed is
both geographical and emotional .This enjoyable film is a touching and violent Western drama with
elevated cinematographic values . The movie realizes an awesome actors
reunion , showing the different characters and explores their
apprehension , ambitions , fears and circumstances . The two
protagonists result to be a pair ¨Quixotes¨ who obstinately undertake a
trip whose objective looks to fulfill a pledge by whatever means . The
main character George Briggs , superbly played by Tommy Lee Jones,
seems to be living resolutely in the past and while the brave spinster
wishes to marry him and create a family . Support cast is frankly
excellent such as Barry Corbin , William Fichtner , Evan Jones , Jesse
Plemons , Grace Gummer , Miranda Otto , and Tim Blake Nelson-James
Spader, this duo previously appeared in ¨Lincoln¨ along with Tommy Lee
and Hailee Steinfeld's second western after her Oscar-nominated ,
breakout role in ¨True Grit¨ . And , of course , the great Meryl Streep
in her third collaboration with Tommy Lee Jones following "A Prairie
Home Companion" and "Hope Springs . Intelligent and thoughtful
screenplay by Kieran Fitzgerald , Wesley Oliver and the same Tommy Lee
Jones , based on the novel by Glendon Swarthout that was published in
1988 ; in fact , Paul Newman owned the rights for a time, and wanted to
direct the film himself , after a number of scripts, he gave up .
Sensitive and evocative musical score by Marco Beltrani (Red eye , The
Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada) . Special mention for glimmer and
fascinating cinematography by Rodrigo Prieto he splendidly reflects the
impressive outdoors from the filming locations : Lumpkin , Georgia ,
San Miguel County , Santa Fe , Oikay Owinger Pueblo , New Mexico . Much
of the movie was shot on Tommy Lee Jones's own ranch .The film is a nice co-production , being produced , among others , by
the great producer and director , the French Luc Besson . The picture
was compellingly directed by Tommy Lee Jones , being his theatrical
directing debut ¨The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada¨ that won a
deserved prize in Cannes , this film bears a remarkable resemblance to
¨The Homesman¨ , dealing equally with a dangerous journey plenty of
contrasts , attacks and many other things . His only other directing
credits were the TV movies ¨Good old boys¨ (1995) and ¨The Sunset
Limited¨ (2011) with Samuel L Jackson and all of them starred by Tommy
Lee Jones . ¨Homesman¨ rating : Better than average , though overlong
and slow-moving . Well worth watching , it's a must see for Tommy Lee
Jones enthusiasts
