8
The weirdest yet most enjoyable movie experience I have had in years.

Villeneuve has came out and produced another brilliant film, I love
that he has used Jake Gyllenhall again after Prisoners. He owns this
film with a wonderful performance.There is a lot of confusion about the film and what the spiders
represent, was there really 2 Jakes or were they the same guy? I have
read some pretty interesting ideas from other people, I don't claim to
completely understand it but would like to throw something out there
for consideration.The movie opens with the biggest clue of how to understand what your
about to see when the message "Chaos is order yet undeciphered"
appears. The whole movie is like a jigsaw puzzle that will make sense
if you can put it together in the correct order.I have not read every review or theory on it but from the ones I have
read all seem to believe that the scene in the "Sex Club" we see at the
beginning happens before most of the other scenes and that the scene at
the end where he tells the wife he plans on going out before she turns
into a giant spider is him repeating the cycle all over again.In my opinion the "Sex Club" scene takes place afterwards, we see him
walking down the corridor with the caretaker and only Jake has a key,
he lets the caretaker in. We hear in the elevator the caretaker has
been before but does not think he will get a new key. So it's my
opinion that the key in the envelope is the new keys that were being
sent out and he as a favour allows the caretaker to tag along.There are some clues throughout the film though that go along with the
theme of history repeating himself for example when we hear Jake give a
lecture and then the same lecture slightly mumbled and less
enthusiastic. I have read people say this represents his day to day
life however my opinion is that they are actually a year apart. He was
giving the same lecture to the next generation of students. I believe
that most of the story takes place over a period of a year based on the
2 incidents where "6 months" is mentioned. The first is when he goes to
the talent agency and the security guard has not seen him in 6 months,
and then again when his wife says she is 6 months pregnant.I won't go through every scene and tell you my opinion of what goes
where as part of the fun is figuring it out for yourself by watching it
a second and even third time.I could be way off with all of this and completely wrong, but in my
opinion that is the beauty of this movie.
