6
A strong cast and an effective first two acts brought down by a rushed, half-hearted ending.

I wasn't expecting to enjoy this movie at all. I was a huge skeptic
when the first trailer came out thinking it would be another FF movie
chock full of cheesy one-liners and cartoony humor. In that respect, I
was way off. Josh Trank's Fantastic Four is grounded in relative
realism, showing what would likely happen if people did in fact crack
inter-dimensional travel and brought back superpowers. It has a darker
tone than the other movies and is a wildly different experience because
of it. The characters are more relatable, their situations are more
believable, and for a good part of the movie, it actually feels like
you're watching the true Fantastic Four origin story unfold.I can't blame Trank for the discrepancies I have with the movie because
he is not at fault. Apparently the producers demanded reshoots which
rear their ugly head about 20 minutes from the end. It turns from this
relatively dark, stylish superhero drama to an overblown one-liner
infested CGI-fest. Mind you, I was still pulling for the heroes the
entire time, but the moments following, preceding and including the
final confrontation are so forcefully rushed and haphazardly put
together it completely disconnects you from what the first hour of the
movie set-up. The climax is generic and lackluster, and the believable
shaky chemistry the characters shared in the beginning of the movie
becomes incredibly forced and awkward. The shift is so drastic it's as
if they Frankenstein'd two separate movies together, making for one
extremely disjointed watching experience.Miles Teller and the rest of the cast have the benefit of being
immensely likable. They worked well together and had palpable chemistry
for a good chunk of the movie. Even Doom was fine. Once I got past the
fact that it wasn't the comic book's adaptation of "Doctor Doom" and
took him at face value as a sci-fi villain, I thought he worked wonders
and actually posed a genuine threat to humanity. The CGI as a whole is
great - a few moments will leave you scratching your head as in "was
that really necessary?" but for the most part, the alternate dimension
looks fantastic and the few fight scenes there are (literally only two
or three) are executed well.Again, these are simply hints of what the movie could've been. It's
obvious Trank had a vision with this world, and it's a damn shame that
we won't be able to see it in full effect. What we're left with is a
promising set-up and a complete mess of a third act with potential
bleeding out right up until the final frames. Fantastic Four is more
realistic and immersive than the other two adaptations, but
unfortunately not as fun as either. What we're left with is an exercise
in "what could have been" and another superhero movie with promising
aspects that simply did not click.
