3
I honestly was hoping for more pretentiousness

I wanted to write a review of this movie, slamming its pretentiousness
and hurling tons of allegory onto its maximum levels of Oscar-Bait that
the trailer for this movie strained really hard to get across with all
of its criteria: the contemporary message of love for the trans
community, the good actors, the period-drama setting, the operatic
score. Instead, however, I come to tell of a movie that is so
emotionally lacking, so frustratingly distant, and so boring, which is
in a way the biggest disappointment for me.To start off, the film's production design is strong. There was some
over-saturation of the colours they use to show this unrealistically
colourful world the character's live in, but the costumes are all
interesting and engaging. The mis-en-scene and the editing, however,
are a mess; Tom Hooper definitely shoots the environment better than
his actors, as whenever a conversation is going on, he continually
isolates each character to their own separate take and a camera that
focuses in on actors with nothing to react to. This, combined with a
continual lack of proper establishing shot, is a terrible choice of how
to do the movie; I know he's trying to make them intimate to us, but he
fails at making them intimate to each other and, as a result, the
audience doesn't care. The editing's a confusing and weird one; there
are a much of moments that make no sense. Firstly is a scene where
Einar delivers laundry to a woman collecting it, but he does it with
such insane speed it makes Usian Bolt look fat and slow (he has to run
from one end of their big house to another, after having to tie the bag
up tight) and it was so weird you wonder why they included it. Same
with the scene where Gerda gets out of a full period costume, including
big knee high leather boots, and into another one in the time it takes
her husband to paint a smudge on his canvas. But by far the biggest
"why the hell" with the editing is a shot when he's first becoming
Lili, and it cuts to some water on the floor. There was literally no
point except to confuse the audience.Now onto the biggest issues with this movie - Eddie Redmayne, Alicia
Vikander and the script. To start with Alicia, she's great. She
honestly is, with both her body of work and her performance in this
film as she tries to bring a complete range of colours and shades to
this performance as she laughs, smiles, cries, and dances around. The
problem is she's trying her damned hardest to add something to nothing.
And let's get one thing straight here, this movie treats Gerda Wegener
like dirt. She's not a successful artist, she only has a career/notice
because of Einar before and after the creation of Lili, and she never,
NEVER gets angry, to the point where its insulting as he selfishly
pulls himself away from her and into Lili, leaving her absolutely
alone. Except for one scene where she pleads with him - "I need my
husband. I want to hold my husband", which is said out of frustration
than anything else - she never speaks out on any of it, and when she
does, he says one sentence then immediately shuts up. It's like the
fantasy of what people hope for other people to be, rather than them
actually being it - that scene where she first finds him wearing her
nightgown and then immediately starts banging him is so insultingly,
unrealistically forgiving that it hurt me. Mr Redmayne now. First of
all, whilst I thought that he did do a good job in The Theory of
Everything, I did think the Oscar was more appropriate in the hands of
Michael Keaton or Jake Gyllenhaal. In this movie, I have the exact same
issue as I did with that movie; he only tries with the difficult stuff
i.e. the actually being a woman, or actually having Motor Neurone
Disease, but the other times he is just a flat page delivering things
awkwardly and not really acting. The problem with this is that his
Stephen Hawking got ALS in the first 20 minutes of that film and he
could really do his thing, but in this, he becomes a woman in the last
10 minutes. Those 10 minutes are wonderful, but it doesn't warrant an
Oscar - or any award to be honest. He's a coy, fluttering, meek person
who doesn't really change personally throughout the film beyond the
physical nature of it. The script is full of lines that are
over-shadowing the theme of the story, but not in a good way; lines
like "It was like I was kissing myself" or "I'm worried you'll look at
that picture so long you'll disappear into it" are cringy and not
clever.Apart from one scene in a Prostitute peep show, where Einar ends up
mimicking the woman's movements as she observes and goes from weirded
out to curious to understanding to sorry, the whole film grated for me
badly. It's boring, distant and while it was just under 2 hours, I
thought I'd been there longerYou want to go see it, be my guest. But if this wins an Oscar -
especially for Best Actor, which something of this calibre doesn't
warrant - then I hit the floor.
