1
Disgustingly pretentious film with no story

I was a bit sceptic before I decided to watch The Master. I had seen
There Will Be Blood, which was also directed by Paul Thomas Anderson
and I did not like it. It was pretentious and the only reason people
seemed to like it was because it was an unusual art house film.
Unfortunately, The Master turned out to be even worse.The film sort of follows a man called Freddie Quell played by Joaquin
Phoenix. He comes into contact with Lancaster Dodd played by Philip
Seymour Hoffman. Dodd is a cult leader and Freddy Quell falls for his
charms, and that's basically the whole plot. It's just Philip Seymour
Hoffman spouting idiotic lines and Joaquin Phoenix acting like a
mentally handicapped person. Occasionally, Phoenix's character leaves
the cult for no apparent reason only to return a few scenes later. The
only thing the movie seems intent on conveying is that cults are weird
and dangerous. Because of this the characters are shallow, their
motivations unclear, and no one seems to behave normally. To a lot of
people this is seen as an intelligent story, but to me it's like
something a mentally ill child would write.Normally, in a film with a great cast but a weak story you can rely on
good acting. Unfortunately, even that can't be enjoyed. Hoffman and
Phoenix are good, and most of the supporting cast are reasonable. But
if actors have to play characters with no purpose it's impossible to
improve the quality of a film.After watching this film I asked myself what I had learned. My answer
was nothing. How is this a good film? What makes the story good? To a
lot of people it's probably because it's just different than most
films. The great Paul Thomas Anderson doesn't need to tell a proper
story, he doesn't need to direct his actors so that they can give good
performances. Mr Anderson can just shoot some clichéd scenes, while
great actors just do some nonsense, and he will be praised by the
critics. Well, I have had it with this pretentious rubbish. This is
certainly one of the worst films I have ever seen and I think I will
avoid Anderson's films from now on.
