2
Did I miss something? This movie was unremarkable at best.

I'm extremely lost as to why this movie has received so much praise. It
was like watching a cake bake at 200 degrees and taking it out after 2
hours -- nothing to show for. Just a bunch of warm ingredients in a
pan.Barely any character development, and no flavor. It was set in Miami,
and as a (black) Miami native (who currently lives here), I didn't get
any Miami vibes. The characters did not look or act Miami (for lack of
better words). This was distracting and disappointing to me. Like, what
was the mother's accent??? And Theresa didn't look like a Miami hood
chick at all. It annoyed the hell out of me that she had the same weave
in when Chiron was 8 as when he was 16. How, Sway? Miami girls switch
up their wigs and weaves weekly. They should have cast Miami natives. Secondly, the casting of young adult Kevin & Chiron was dreadful.
Chiron went from being an awkward-looking, not so attractive teenager
to quite attractive eye candy as a young adult (mmm, he was fine!).
Teenage Chiron had some pretty notable facial features (which added to
his awkwardness) that adult Chiron bore no resemblance to. I think the
awkwardness as a teen was a central part of the character's identity. I
understand that he became more streetwise and confident when he moved
to Atlanta, but it was also clear that he strangely remained asexual
since that experience with Kevin when he was 16. That is NOT normal --
to me that screams awkward and undeveloped adult... not the sexy, full
of swag young adult that Black was. The transition was too extreme and
the remaining awkwardness we should have seen was no where to be found.
I would have liked to see young adult Black as more average looking,
and somehow exuding his more streetwise ways, *despite* his
awkwardness. (And I'm sorry, the shyness did not come through as
awkwardness to me.) This was very distracting and showed a complete
lack of attention to casting. Kevin went from looking kind of mixed as a kid and teenager to not at
all as an adult. Disappointing choice there, too.Let's not even talk about that horrible attempt at grey hair on the mom
of adult Chiron. Why didn't they give the lady a damn wig.As for the rest of the movie, if you're going to have a slow moving
drama like this, character development is so important. I should have
felt attached to the characters. Unspoken things should have made more
of a punch, like Juan's death. I wasn't even sure if it was his funeral
they were referring to. They could have done so much better with that.
At the end of the movie, I didn't really feel anything for anyone.
Except a from Trevante Rhodes. I had all the feelings for him. LOL. I
could have seen more of him with his shirt off, since that was the
highlight of the movie.
