1
Walrus NO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

If there was an award for the worst conceived and more importantly
manufactured movie of all time this would be at the utmost top of my
list. I have seen other reviewers say that this one shows the depth of
what happens when a pothead gets the ability to make his own movies, as
an avid smoker of the greenery and a semi fan of Kevin Smith I take
offense to this analogy. This is just a piece o' crap movie and weed
shouldn't take the blame for it or the act of being a "pothead".It really amazed me more that he convinced any legitimate actor to take
part in the steaming pile of horse's anal relief. Justin Long doesn't
knock them out of the park every time he takes on a role but how on
god's great earth did he ever get talked into this, and I won't even
try to figure out how the talk went that convinced Johnny Depp to get
involved ... Do actors ever watch the crap they produce before its
released, I would be truly embarrassed if I were even an extra in this
piece of monkey spunk.Lastly I have seen other reviews that compare this to The Human
Centipede, I see how you can come to that comparison and I absolutely
hated The Human Centipede, but its an Oscar winning movie in comparison
to Tusk. As ridiculous as both concepts are for anything including a
movie that's supposed to be somewhat entertaining, at least The Human
Centipede tried to take itself somewhat seriously. Tusk try's to add
levity to itself from time to time and fails at that as horribly as it
does in turning a human into a walrus believably.I didn't toss in a lot of the spoilers and specifics I would like to
because I hate reading reviews that pick apart the details of a movie I
haven't seen, and there are PLENTY of other reviews here that already
have done that. If you want some specifics read those, most of the ones
that give it a 1 star rating are spot on. I am also not writing this in
hopes that someone curious to watch it will be deterred from doing so,
mainly because I watched this piece of monkey spunk so so should you if
your curious. This is my personal F*CK YOU letter to Kevin Smith and
anyone involved in this crap-fest of a movie. You could have fed a
starving village in Africa with the money you wasted on something that
should have never been produced. I truly hope this movie damages your
career.Love, A former fan
