5
Lousy back-story with poor metaphor use makes for a missed mark on what could have been a great film

Lousy back-story with poor metaphor use makes for a missed mark on what
could have been a great film.Acting/cast = greatConcept = excellentComedy = sub parStory = poorExecution = failBack Story: we finally see what happened as they were kids. So what?
and why? Does not make sense at all. OK, so he was jealous of her
project as they were kids, so why did he then climb the fence to rescue
her project? And you'd think when they *finally* remembered getting hit
by lightning, they would associate the robot and monsters as their
childhood toys. Nope. Then we learn that now he hates himself. Why, and
so what? If it's from guilt for stepping on her project, fix that guilt
now and stop being a moron. But nope. The use of metaphors to make a movie is not a new concept, but Nacho
average director really screwed this one up by not using them properly.We understand the two drunks with lousy lives, but when they meet, we
see that Oscar is a few slices short of a loaf. And that's when this
movie fails... drastically. Seriously, what's the point of bringing out
the big firework and almost burning down his bar... because Gloria's ex
showed up? Really?Let's not mention that no matter how emotionally disturbed you are,
knowing that when you stomp on the playground, you may kill innocent
people, but Oscar doesn't care. Ya, OK. Then there's Joel. After having slept with Gloria, you'd think he'd man
up and stand up for her when Oscar was being physical. Nope.Clearly the director missed the mark into making this film incredible,
instead of "wtf just happened and why?"Oscars insecurities and jealousy was poorly executed as the metaphor
for this film and sadly, had it been up to par with Gloria's metaphoric
representation, it would have been a winner. Too bad, as this had the
makings of a real winner.When I did feel sorry for Oscar, he then just does something so stupid
and out of normality for even the worst insecure jealous outcast of an
individual, without any explanation, and that's where it leaves the
viewer wondering why. Had the writing been a little tighter/better and had the director
tweaked even just a little of such a poor story, I would have given
this a much higher score. But at the end, I was left with too many
questions and head shakes as to why such potential was lost. It's
almost a waste of two great lead actors to have this film in their
resume. This truly could have been a cult type sci-fi black comedy winner.
