1
Movies like this are the reason IMDb should allow a 0 rating

Wow, just wow. I'm astonished. I've seen over a thousand movies in my
life, and out of all of them, this is the worst. Its worse than The
Garbage Pail Kids Movie, After Last Season, and Ren Seeks Help. This is
the worst, most pointless, hollow, and lazy excuse for a theatrical
feature I've ever seen. There is no vision or creativity here, its
literally just a bunch of unrelated 5-minute skits. I could at least
give this movie some credit if the skits were funny at all, but they're
not. They're all disgusting and repulsive. As I sat through the first
skit, I was like "well that sucked, maybe the next one will be better".
After the next four, I was like "well maybe one of them will make me
laugh". I was wrong. The rest was just a vapid, soulless, agonizing
experience. I didn't laugh, chuckle, or even involuntarily smile during
this whole movie. The whole product just feels cynically slapped
together with no respect for its audience and for the sole purpose of
making money. Many of the celebrities they got were either bribed or
guilt tripped into being in their skits. This isn't even a real movie;
its like a bunch of unfunny YouTube videos mashed together. Think of
the 15 worst Smosh videos you've seen, and watch them back to back.
That's basically this movie but with more depraved sexually graphic
content and random celebrities. You'd have a lot more fun watching
YouTube videos for 90 minutes than watching Movie 43. Normally I have
no problem with gross and inappropriate content, but only if there's a
point. This movie represents everything wrong with Hollywood. Slimy
film business practices typically only happen occasionally behind the
scenes of most mainstream films. Every decision involved in the making
of this movie started with the thought "We could exploit the Hollywood
system by...". Movies like this are the reason IMDb should allow a 0-
star rating. This movie is nothing. This movie deserves nothing.
Therefore, I shall give it nothing.0/10
