1
Lucas Your Baby is dying

What George Lucas created these many years ago, was something
different, mystical and surreal.Now look at it,A Money machine (Disney) is ready to milk the series so hard until this
extraordinary piece of art is completely burned to Ash..The StarWars saga needs to be remembered for what it was and what it
stood for. A story so powerful and captivating that it captured the minds of
millions. A battle between overwhelming evil against a sparkle of hope.
How good can triumph evil. This is not appreciated nearly as much as it
should.He is the Leonardo DaVinci of our time.What happens, is the prequels. The Beginning of an end. He pours his
head, heart and soul. To create something magical and new.He presents to us, The Phantom Menace A three part trilogy, That would explore the so interesting past of the SW universeWe do not Accept, We reject the first part, i am not sure why this happened,but this deeply effected Lucas,It was to late we had already decided and nothing good was to be from
the prequels..The clone wars gets released, Totally investing in CGI The people hate new and reject it once again. Then something truly extraordinary happens...The Revenge Of The Sith, The most Brilliant masterpiece No words can justify this moviebut still gets rejected...Lucas furious with his fans SELLS his baby (SW)For about five Billion Dollarslets get one thing straight away, THATS A lot of FKN MONEY an
Investment from ---Disney-- Now Disney is doing this to make even more money, they don't care about
the art and the brand or whatever, They are going to squeeze these
series so hard till it completely bleeeeeds out, cause they want this
money as fast as possible..the Don't care long term, they think max 5-10 years. Get every single
penny out of it then dump it..That is why we get shitty movies like rogue one, and there's a hell of
a lot more of them coming ((that Han solo film))Lucas We are truly sorry, But Disney will come begging to you one day
to revive the franchise.And i truly hope you will.. sincerely- Ísak Helgi Karvelsson
