3
A disappointment

It's a shame how one aspect can spoil the entire experience but that's
what happened for me. Other reviewers have commented on the use of
hand-held shaky-cam, fast-cut camera-work - none of them positively
that I can find.From the Trivia section on IMDb we read this one sentence:---- The director has stated that his decision to go with shaky cam
work, "had a lot to do with the urgency of what's going on and to
reflect protagonist Katniss Everdeen's point of view." ----There was nothing "urgent" about the first 2/3rds of the film. I'm glad
I don't go around throwing my head from side-to-side in normal life,
stressed or not. When are film-makers going to realise they are the
only ones that truly like this type of camera-work? They sit there
editing the film on their desktop monitors in an office but faithful
movie-goers have to watch their "creativity" on 50ft+ screens, where
every sudden jerk sideways is at best distracting, at worst nauseating.
It doesn't convey urgency, it conveys amateurism. Enough already.Hitchcock asked the composer Friedhofer, "where would the orchestra
be?" when the latter wanted a string piece for a scene in "Lifeboat"
The composer replied "The same place as the cameraman." We expect
movies to have a soundtrack, and if the music is working properly, then
we don't really notice it because it joins in with the visuals and
enhances the scene. We are viewers of make-believe, sometimes
realistic, often fantastical, and immersion into the world of the story
is key to a satisfying movie-going experience. A camera being wiggled
about on purpose draws attention to itself, and it shouldn't. This
constant reminder of the presence of a, seemingly badly trained
cameraman, is a real turn-off. Please stop it.As far as the other aspects of the film were concerned, I found the
narrative somewhat plodding, and the pre-games section of the film
could have done with being 20-30mins shorter. I knew nothing about the
books beforehand, so I'm of the opinion that this is perhaps one for
the S.Collins enthusiast rather than the general movie-goer. Though if
the other reviews are anything to go by, plenty of Collins' readers are
not very pleased either!
