7
You Love it or you Hate it. Simple as that.

All right, I agree with most people when they say 2010's Clash of the
Titans was not a great movie, but I didn't hate it. I didn't walk out
of the theater with a feeling like "OMG, that movie kicked ass!". It
was OK, I thought the film had pacing issues and the 3D was, well...
about as bad and pointless as people made it out to be. So is the
sequel, Wrath of the Titans, an improvement?I'm happy to report that yes, Wrath of the Titans is better. It's not a
great film by any means, it is flawed, but if you're looking for 99
simple minutes to kill by looking at some pretty darn impressive action
sequences, then you are in luck. Also, if you thought the 3D in Clash
was bad, that's not the case with Wrath. Don't expect anything along
the lines of Avatar, but I gotta say, the 3D was used pretty nicely and
didn't come off as a total gimmick.My biggest issue with the film, however, is one that I had with the
previous film. The film sometimes feels a bit slow and that it takes a
while to get started, and there's not really much investment in the
story or the characters. Some of the characters are mostly there to
provide comic relief, but even that is very hit-or-miss. For the most
part, Sam Worthington played his role pretty good, a fine example of
under-rated acting. It's nothing great, but it's far from abysmal. Liam
Neeson was also rather enjoyable to watch, but hey, it's Liam Neeson.
Everybody else isn't particularly interesting, but they're not
unforgivably boring or useless. There's also a small romance in the
film between Worthington and a female side character, but it comes off
as pointless and un-needed. I just don't see why the majority of
popcorn action flicks require a relationship when we go to see
explosions and amazing special effects, it's just not necessary.Flaws aside, I enjoyed Wrath of the Titans. I am aware of the hate that
this movie is receiving and I can understand some of the quibbles that
one may have against it, but hey, at least it's better than it's
predecessor.
