3
Derails very quickly

The book is a terrific and engrossing read, with a lot of tension and
suspense, a clear timeline and while the characters are unpleasant you
understand why they are.In comparison 'The Girl on the Train' is down there among the most
underwhelming book-to-film adaptations, with everything that made the
book so good being completely lost in translation in the film. However
it also is a failure on its own terms as an overall film, one doesn't
even need to have read the book or have knowledge of it to still
consider 'The Girl on the Train' a disappointment. If anybody likes the
film, that's absolutely fine and good for them, as a huge
mystery-thriller fan this was one of the year's biggest letdowns while
not quite being bad enough to be one of the year's worst.Comparisons to 'Gone Girl', which has a similar tone and a couple of
similar themes, and almost universally negatively is understandable and
inevitable. Will try and keep the comparison brief, to me 'Gone Girl'
is the vastly superior film, actually being a good, no great, film. It
isn't perfect, faltering at the end with a conclusion that feels abrupt
and illogical, but it's better made and directed (the direction was one
of the best things about that film, while the direction here dooms this
film), the "Cool Girl" monologue alone is much better than any of the
dialogue in this film, that had tension, suspense, emotion and
delicious black but subtle humour and Rosamund Pike's performance is
one of that year's best performances and in the top end of the best
Oscar-nominated performances of this decade.What saves 'The Girl on the Train' from crashing and burning completely
is the acting, which is terrific on the whole. The women do fare better
than the men, though the men, with Justin Theroux being the most
believable, are no slouches either. Emily Blunt's lead performance in
particular is sensational. The exceptions though are Rebecca Ferguson,
who looks lost with a character completely stripped of what made her
interesting before, and Edgar Ramirez who comes over as annoying. Danny
Elfman's score is one of his more understated and memorable ones in
recent years, not his best work by any stretch but tonally it fits very
well, being soothing yet unsettling.However, Tate Taylor as director is clearly ill at ease with the dark
material, because throughout it's stiff, indifferent and far too much
of one mood. The story is a complete mess, with no tension or suspense
whatsoever and plot twists that are introduced abruptly and are
executed confusingly, even incomprehensibly, due to the lack of a clear
time line and with little surprises. The pace really drags on
constantly so the film is constantly as dull as dishwater and there is
an overload of sex scenes that are also tasteless as well as being
melodramatic with the subtlety of an axe. In the end, one doesn't care
how it ends and the ending or the revelation of the culprit are not
done particularly well. The culprit's identity is not that shocking and
is revealed too early, and then the film meanders on for another half
an hour when the film could easily have ended at the revelation.Another huge let-down is the very soap-opera-ish, underwritten and very
half-baked script, that doesn't do anything to develop the characters,
who are nasty without explanation or reason to be so it makes them
empty and very difficult to relate to their situations. The production
design is good but wasted by the very made for TV way the film is shot
and edited. Particularly bad is the haphazard editing.Overall, doesn't completely crash and burn due to the acting
(especially Blunt) and the score but derails very quickly and is a
train-wreck on the whole. 3/10 Bethany Cox
