9
A Cute Teen Comedy That Isn't Overly Cliché

Dave (Dylan O'Brien) is a high school senior that is infatuated with a
girl named Jane (Victoria Justice). As he practices a speech to let her
know how much he likes her in an alley during a party he meets Aubrey
(Britt Robertson). Dave and her start to talk and get to know each
other on a walk home. This sparks a relationship that begins during
this first weekend for their meeting. The only thing is that Dave still
has feelings for Jane and Aubrey currently has a boyfriend. Throughout
the weekend they both go back and forth with each other trying to
figure out their feelings. As well as when their "first time" will be
and with who.There's been many teen comedies over the years that have had pretty
much the same subject matter. This one though is a type that I don't
think I've seen in quite some time. It had the inner workings to be a
raunchy teen comedy but instead it came across very cutesy even despite
the main subject matter. It's not a bad thing. In fact it's refreshing.
Nowadays all you see is R rated comedies that like to push the envelope
and this film I feel gives a fairly honest (and sometimes hilarious)
look at the complicated life of a teenager was done in a way that
doesn't seem overly cliché. O'Brien did extremely well. His character
Dave wasn't exactly a nerd but more of a dork and you can't help but
root for him every step of the way. His hopeless romantic personality
is the polar opposite of Aubrey and provides some really humorous and
really sweet moments. Robertson brought forth a lot of maturity to her
character and I absolutely loved it. Her character could easily own a
conversation then turn right around and throw out a look as if she has
no idea what she's talking about. It was scenes like that, that I found
myself laughing at. If you're a girl I think you're definitely going to
love it. If you're a guy I think you're going to like it a lot more
than you expect. I literally sat there watching the movie with a smile
on my face (or laughing) most of the time. A definite must watch!
