1
Probably the worst movie I've ever seen

I love horror flicks. I thought the 2003 remake of Texas Chainsaw
Massacre was a pretty decent horror film. Not amazing, but entertaining
nonetheless. This version of Texas Chainsaw caught my attention in the beginning.
Giving a flashback sequence to the original Sawyer family members being
killed. Things just went downhill after that. Every character in this
movie seems to lack a brain and/or is a complete a**hole. On top of
that... there was no nudity. I mean c'mon.. what's a horror film
without some nudity?! Just to name a few of many things that made this
movie bad:Farnsworth a.k.a. the KFC Colonel didn't think it'd be important to
tell Heather, there was a 6"5' lunatic living in a hidden basement of
her inherited house. Even after all of Heather's friends are brutally murdered by
Leatherface, whom she discovers to be her cousin, she feels sorry for
him and loves him because he's "family." Screw that noise... ALL of her
friends are dead because of him. It's not even like he's a close
relative. She doesn't even know him. One minute she's scared sh**less
of him and the next she loves him AND helps him kill a couple more
people?? Are we supposed to believe that her thought process was: "Oh,
hey Cuz, you just knocked me out in the kitchen, almost cut me up with
a chainsaw in a coffin, tried killing me by flipping our van, chased me
through a carnival with a chainsaw forcing me to hang on to a Ferris
Wheel for my life AND killed all of my friends. But that's all okay.. I
forgive you because we're family. Now I'm going to help you kill people
and take care of you for the rest of my life." All I could say was...
Seriously... wtf just happened.Towards the end, the sheriff was the only character I liked up because
he seemed to have a brain... Surprise!!! He's an idiot too! He decides
not to shoot Leatherface even after he killed five people in just one
night because he feels bad for him. His family died because they were a
bunch of murders.... boo hoo. Are we supposed to feel bad for
Leatherface??? I sure don't. Yet the makers seemed to think "let's try
to get the audience to feel bad for him." Last time I checked,
Leatherface was a scary serial killer. You're not supposed to feel bad
for them. We, as the audience of a slasher film, have no interest in
feeling bad for him. We want to be afraid of him. It is a HORROR film
after all.In summary. The plot and character development make absolutely zero
sense... to the point where it makes you cringe. No thought was put
into this movie. Seems like the makers knew Texas Chainsaw fans would
go watch this movie so they didn't care to put effort into making it a
good one. Don't waste your time and definitely not your money watching
this movie. If you want to watch a Texas Chainsaw movie that isn't
incredibly old. Go watch the 2003 version. Not a great movie... But
it's still (approximately) a million times better than this garbage.
