5
an Alpine soap opera ruined by a dog

Casting a dog in a movie is risky; it can steal or wreck the show and
sometimes do both. The survival-romance film The Mountain Between Us
(2017) is a two-hander supported by a lovable golden Labrador named
'Dog'. Audiences are immune to human tragedy, but life and death is
taken more seriously when a pooch is cast in a disaster film to the
extent that the movie's publicity had to assure viewers that the dog is
neither killed nor eaten.It's a simple tale without real surprises. Neurosurgeon Ben Bass (Idris
Elba) and photojournalist Alex Martin (Kate Winslet) meet when their
flights are cancelled due to bad weather. She is getting married the
next day and he has an urgent operation to perform, so they decide to
risk the storm and take a charter flight. When the pilot has a stroke,
the inevitable happens and they are stranded on a snowy mountain
without communications or hope of being found. With no food, there is
only one option left: Ben, Alex, and Dog set off to find civilisation.So how does the dog wreck the show? The film faces several plausibility
and acting challenges that are adversely aided and abetted by Dog. The
script and its delivery has an Alpine soap opera quality to it, with
neither Elba or Winslet able to step out of their 'all-wise strong
doctor' and the 'injured helpless female' stereotypes. Elba does a lot
of intensive furrowing of those deep dark eyebrows which signals a
neurosurgeon processing god-like knowledge and Winslet does a passable
job of determined dependency. The simmering bond between them barely
rises in temperature so all we are left to emotionally connect with is
Dog. To make matters worse, whenever danger approaches we think of the
most vulnerable first, and that's Dog.However, the real flaw is the glaringly obvious contrast between the
couple, who are surviving on a few almonds a day after weeks of
snowbound trekking, and the dog's playful prancing through snow as if
let out of the house after a big meal. The cold truth is that Dog is
hopeless at pretending to be exhausted and the co-stars are not much
better. Winslet's makeup and good looks improve the more she treks and
the less she eats, and Elba's handsome beard stubble stays trim over
weeks of hard slog with the only signs of exhaustion their breathless
panting and slow-motion movement. As it becomes increasingly difficult
to take this film seriously, a cabin appears with all home comforts
plus two cans of soup. That's when the film falls into a hole that not
even Dog can save.To be fair, the cinematography is outstanding, the mountain scenery is
post-card beautiful, and even the digital effects are believable if you
squint your eyes at the right time. The melodrama finds new heights in
the final quarter when the simmering romance finally bubbles over into
a glorious cliché that is mercifully brought to an end by the closing
credits.
