8
v/h/s (2012)

I love found-footage films, especially when they are done well. I also
love horror anthologies withe some of my favourite TV shows being The
Twilight Zone, The Outer Limits, and Tales From The Darkside. The two
joining together for V/H/S was a very exciting idea and gave me very
lofty expectations. I was amazed to find that for the most part they
were met. V/H/S sees a gang of guys break into a house in order to
steal a video cassette for blackmailing purposes. Once in he house they
find a huge collection of videos, each one showing a different tale of
horror. The first is the story about a couple of girls picked up from a
bar and recorded secretly on camera glasses. This is probably the
scariest tale with some very disturbing imagery. I still can't get the
look of a certain character out of my head. In it's short running time
it also hits upon some emotional notes that I wasn't expecting. Perfect
effects and nailbiting tension make this a great start. Video number
two sees a couple on a road trip who are secretly filmed at night. The
idea of an intruder watching you at your most vulnerable is
nerve-racking. Story number three was my least favourite but was still
mostly effective. It was let down by cheesy dialogue that over
explained the details of the plot. The effects here were again very
well done with a sickening look at an eyeball sliding out of a socket.
Story number 4 is shot through Skype and has the biggest ambitions in
terms of plot. I would like to see this again as I didn't enjoy it at
first because of a terrible performance from the male lead, but there
is a reason for this which makes sense after viewing. The final tale is
a haunted house film that builds up incredibly well. It starts with an
empty house and moves towards all hell breaking loose with some of the
most flawless effects I have ever seen. Each story was interesting and
most importantly it kept to the rules of found-footage. Everything
appears as though it was done in-camera. It's left me thinking about
the stories and getting my imagination to work overtime as not a lot is
explained. The only real let down was the wrap-around that tried to
connect these stories. It really didn't work and just made the film a
bit too long. When I buy this on DVD I am pretty certain I will be
skipping those parts. Hope we see a V/H/S 2.
