7
A Conjugal Ordeal

Honeymoon can immediately be assumed as a scary movie, easily because
it involves some paranormal situation, but the heart of the story is
studying how long would the main couple hold together no matter what.
How the characters flesh out their relationship and the sudden trouble
of their connection instantly triumphs the whole film, until it still
attempts to do something more crazy in the end for the sake of the
genre. It sadly doesn't live up to what it has set up and rather turn
things underwhelming, but Honeymoon is still a pretty clever
psychological thriller that is a lot interesting to watch than your
average horror film.This is basically an ultimate test of a seemingly perfect marriage. The
beginning already shows that nothing can keep the two apart, and it's
even more clear to how strong their connection is to each other. Once
it moves to the mystery, their sweet romance fades, but still doesn't
abandon its core. In spite of having a possible traumatic or paranormal
involvement to the new behavior of Bea, it still centers to how their
relationship goes. The real horror of the film is basically having the
fear of losing the loved one and suspecting the worst things to come.
It is done terrifically as a slow burn, but what reveals in the end,
though can be acceptable, won't be the kind of answer that people would
be blown away or terrified at. But the best of the movie is how it
smartly defines this couple, even when things get stranger.Horror films today rarely finds good performances, but this movie
pleasantly has two great leads. Rose Leslie and Harry Treadaway
convincingly shows the couple's affections. Leslie does an excellent
job shifting the traits of her character, without taking the weirdness
too far. While Treadaway naturally manifests his character's confusion
towards the situation. The direction is slick, guided by a decent
pacing. The camera-work captures a lot of beautiful shots. Though,
horror movies tend to make things look ugly for the sake of being
creepy, this movie does have one gross scene that you might not forget
in a long time, but most of the experience looks pretty, as an illusion
from the terror behind.Honeymoon still has an underwhelming revelation that fails to be scary
or anything beyond that, but the film is better when the horror is much
grounded, creating an intriguing symbolism within the mystery. It never
really matters where the threat comes from, the film just challenges
this newlyweds and there it's already fascinating, by building a much
serious conflict. This is the quality that can only be seen in indie
horror. It leaves out the conventional tricks and tries to make tension
out of its own. But even without trying to be scary, it still offers a
good story.
