3
Slow & Stupid, Fragmented, Amateur Acting, Misfits all over

I am quite astonished as to the plethora of high marks this film is
getting, and especially over opening weekend. It's quite suspicious,
although I do expect a trend to occur very soon with all the actual
movie-goers who sat through this horrible action film to chime in and
tell you how it really was - - where 3-stars here (out of 10) is
actually quite generous. The movie starts out very slow, and that pace continues as they try to
build upon that. I don't mind slow starters, but you have to have
quality and depth in the script to keep me excited or draw me in - and
they fail here. The stories are fragmented - it was jumping from one
thing to another and you're trying to connect the dots and wonder WTF
is this here for? Some of these scenes are just plain stupid - like
watching an interview / news from an ipad in the garage and acting like
it's so important but the content doesn't make sense and it's really
not. Some of the race scenes are definitely lacking excitement and the
adrenaline rush. Weaving in and out through the city streets, run over
some trash cans, and go through a tunnel, and that's the peaking point
- - WTF? That's the first organized race scene, which includes a stone-
faced Bieber driver who doesn't look old enough to drive. My God. The
sh-t just don't fit. The actors - - a lot of new ones, very young, Bieber-looking types, 1
or 2 African Americans, it's almost like they're trying to showcase
these young perfect-faced-Bieber-types who have a ways to go in
mastering their craft. They are not convincing to say the least, they
do not draw you into the character, they do not rattle you or get you
into the story. Fail. I love Aaron Paul, great actor, but they tried to make him the big
action star who doesn't say much, speaks in a low and cool tone, has a
few quips, and everything he says is potent and memorable. A big FAIL
here. I don't know if he doesn't play the part well enough or if I
still see Breaking Bad dude or if the script just plain sucks, but it
could be a combination of all the above. He just doesn't fit the part
IMO - - and many felt this way during the previews. BTW - the Director
(Waugh) has a very limited history, 2 films of which one I've never
heard of (Step Into Liquid) - ?? and Act of Valor - which IMO wasn't
well executed. So a 3 out of 10 here is quite generous. And all I want is a quality
story, great action, quality and believable acting, and an exciting
plot. Nothing like that exists in this movie.
