9
Enjoyment will depend on familiarity.

First and foremost I must say that I absolutely loved this movie. But
as I will cover in my review it may largely be due to the fact that I
have always held the source material of this film in very high regard.
Having said that, I do recognize that their may be a sliding scale of
enjoyability for this film. If you are a fan of the 1983
Claremont/Miller miniseries of Wolverine then this is the movie you
have been waiting for. If you are fond of the character Wolverine and
interested into delving deeper into his chronology and exploring his
inner conflicts, you will certainly enjoy this movie. If however, you
have no familiarity, or no desire to familiarize with the character of
Wolverine, you may find yourself not caring about many of the slower
moments and longing for a more evenly paced action film.Fans of Claremont's Wolverine rejoice, this Wolverine does it right.
The film does its best keeping characters intact while deviating from
the comics in the sake of a self contained story and grander character
development. There are several of the shots in this film that are near
recreations of the comic's original panels, and although story lines
have been shifted and shuffled in some places, its all there. Mariko,
Yukio, Harada, Shingen and Viper may develop differently than in the
comic series, but their relation to each other and contextual
significance is intact. As a Wolverine fan it was also nice to see a
meaningful relationship blossom between Wolverine and Mariko, unlike
the comics where it really is love at first sight. Instead here
Wolverine falls in love not entirely with the character of Mariko, but
rather with the idea of being a protector, a take that is a welcome
addition to the Claremont storyline. The characters of Silver Samurai
and Viper undergo the largest facelift in this film, but it isn't
entirely out of place. Let us not forget they were involved in the X
Men issues directly connecting to the Wolverine miniseries. Although
their characters have undertaken slight adjustments in order to
incorporate ideas from the Fatal Attractions storyline, the plot does
well to take from Wolverine's side of this storyline because it was one
of the few times in the series where Logan did feel vulnerable. Many
fans will recognize that the plot device and character of Master
Yashida cannot be found in any of the original comics, but one must
keep in mind it serves as a useful device to connect all the
developments of Logan's journey. All in all I think its the best
character study of Wolverine that any fan could ask for. Wolverine
struggles with his animalistic urges and his commitment to reform, he
grapples to find meaning in his endless immortality, and he ultimately
finds purpose and resolution that he had not before. None of these
developments are significantly or profoundly discovered, rather they
are slowly revealed, which may turn casual movie goers off from
enjoying this film. As a thoughtful exploration of Wolverine's
character and a grand homage to incredible source material though, how
can any Wolverine fan say no to this movie? It is the best X-Men movie
and one of the best comic based movies.For those who would not consider themselves fans, but are rather
moviegoers intent on enjoying a superhero epic, be warned. This film is
a character study, it does not grapple with any conflicts outside of
Wolverine's internal struggles. The world is not being threatened, and
not many lives outside of Logan's are even being threatened, so the
storyline does not crescendo in epic suspense like the Avengers or the
Dark Knight. So for those not invested in Wolverine's personal self
discovery, some of the action can seem unmotivated and the pacing an
obstacle to satisfaction. The film does its job in providing action
sequences, but it intersperses several moments of symbolic soul
searching, cryptic metaphors and relationship building that serve as
pavement for Wolverine's self discovery. This movie can still be
enjoyable without interest in Wolverine's inner conflicts however. With
an outstanding supporting cast, a beautiful setting, and gripping and
intense action sequences, it plays a lot like a token Bond film for
those unfamiliar with Wolverine.Whether you are familiar with the original comics or not, this movie
will certainly provide entertaining thrills and intriguing themes. If,
however, you are a fan of the original comic books, this film is a
wonderful achievement.
