10
Another masterpiece from McQueen

I attended the premiere of 12 Years a Slave at the Toronto
International Film Festival. Having no tickets, we had to wait close to
4 hours hoping they might let us in. I have to say it was definitely
worth the wait and it is hands down the best film I've seen at the
festival. The film is based on the real story of Solomon Northup (played by
Chiwetel Ejiofor), a free black man living in New York, who is abducted
and sold into slavery in Louisiana. As the film begins, we are exposed
to his talent as a musician (he plays the violin) and get a glimpse of
the life he leads with his wife and two children. All is well until he
meets two men who seem taken by his music and want to bring him along
with them so he can play at various events. When Solomon wakes up in
chains, his dark journey starts and the film never lets you take a
break.If you've seen McQueen's other works then you more or less know what
kind of movie to expect (if you haven't then please stop reading and
watch Hunger and Shame). 12 Years a Slave is dark and raw, it exposes
everything, without sugarcoating it. It is definitely hard to watch;
Several people walked out of the the theatre but in my opinion, it is
not only worth watching but necessary. Films exploring themes of
slavery are few and far in between and never has one been quite as
exhaustive and effective as this one. Beautifully shot and edited, the
film features moments of tension, heartbreak and a few laughs here and
there. Steve McQueen has created another masterpiece.Most actors get very little screen time. Paul Giamatti and Sarah
Paulson are seen for a few minutes but both are great as usual.
Benedict Cumberbatch plays a plantation owner, who recognizes Solomon's
talent and tries to help him to a certain extent. Despite being a
slaver, he is presented in the film as being a good man. Cumberbatch
was very good, though outshined by far by Michael Fassbender. He goes
through every emotion and gives it his everything. In my opinion, this
is his best performance to date. Paul Dano gets a few minutes of screen
time as well but makes incredible use of it. As Benedict's worker, he
despises slaves and the songs he sings to Solomon makes an incredibly
powerful scene, one of the most disturbing in the film. Lupita
Nyong'o's first appearance in a feature film is stunning, as she plays
a heart breaking young slave. I hope she has a long career ahead of
her, she certainly has the talent for it. The true star is definitely
Chiwetel Ejiofor. His performance as Solomon is stunning and
unforgettable, I truly hope he wins the Oscar for it this year.All in all, if you get a chance to see 12 Years a Slave, don't miss it.
Not everyone will be able to stomach it but it's an outstanding film
that deserves and needs to be seen.
