7
Feels More Like a Sitcom Than a Movie

As far as disposable sequels to kids films, Despicable Me 3 is pretty
much on par with Cars 3 (2017). It's not a particularly memorable film
nor can it really hold its own against something like The LEGO Batman
Movie (2017) but at least it's not unpleasant. In-fact in may ways
Despicable Me 3 is better than the original in that it improves its
look-and-feel and provides a decent foil for once in the form of Trey
Parker's Balthazar Bratt. Of course it's to the detriment of neutering
the refreshing mean-spirited-ness of the original, but hey, at least
you still got those Minions am I right? Despicable Me 3 catches Gru
(Carell) and newly minted wife Lucy (Wiig) trying and failing to secure
the world's largest diamond from the hands of Bratt our flamboyant 80's
themed villain. Fired by the new head of the Anti-Villain League
(Slate), Gru and Lucy discover he has a twin brother named Dru (also
Carell) whom their parents separated at birth. With nothing on their
plate, Gru, Lucy and the girls (Cosgrove, Gaier and Scharrel), travel
to the Mediterranean coasts of Freedonia to meet Dru.When the family lands in Freedonia, the movie descends into a series of
fun but thematically incongruous vignettes. Gru bonds with his brother
over Dru's desire to become a villain, Lucy fails, succeeds and fails
again to become a mother figure to the three girls, Agnes, the youngest
of the three tries to capture a unicorn, Balthazar Bratt sees his plans
for world domination come to near-fruition and the Minions...well let's
just say they have their own thing going as well.About half of all this busy, busy, business works at least as far as
furthering the plot. The fact that none of the film's insanity really
coalesces into a compelling whole, only makes the film feel more like a
mediocre sitcom episode than an actual movie. Yet as far as inspired
moments of slapstick, Despicable Me 3 supplies a little bit more than
is to be expected. One highlight involves Gru and Dru driving around
the Freedonian countryside in a golden-plated mean machine while police
follow while riding literal pigs. Parents will find these comedic bits
more amusing than funny but the kids, the kids will be rolling up and
down the aisles.And isn't that what this movie is ultimately about? To provide
entertainment to children? While I don't necessarily condone families
watching kid's films for their own sake (and this one in particular is
all over the map as far as messaging), there's not really all that much
to object about here. Despicable Me 3 is at its core a thoughtless but
entertaining jumble of sights, sounds and goofiness. Thankfully unlike
your racist aunt, Illumination Entertainment has not used the Minions
for nefarious purposes...at least not yet.
