10
The Martian: "Cast Away" Meets "Apollo 13"

The Martian is a new Ridley Scott classic, featuring his best work in
years, the best performance I've ever seen from Matt Damon, an
outstanding supporting cast, a surprisingly funny screenplay from
Daredevil creator Drew Goddard, and a great narrative that ties the
film together beautifully. As expected with Ridley Scott films, the film itself is visually
stunning. The landscape of Mars looks absolutely breathtaking, and the
scenes aboard the Hermes and back on Earth are just as sharp in detail
and scope. The way he chose to make this film made it almost seem like
an exceptionally made biopic. Many times during this film, I
legitimately believed that Mark Watney was a real, living person that
was actually stranded on Mars for many months alone. It's Cast Away
meets Apollo 13, and this marriage is crafted beautifully. Matt Damon is absolutely brilliant in this film. He plays Watney with
so much optimism that it actually makes the depressing aspect of the
film not as depressing for me. However, when he has to put on his
dramatic chops in certain scenes, he truly commits to the drama of the
situation, and that right there is true Ridley Scott suspense for you.
The supporting cast, everyone involved, all do great work as well. Jeff
Daniels, Jessica Chastain, particularly Chiwetel Ejiofor. He is one of
the best actors working today, and this movie and 12 Years a Slave
shows how far he's come. The most surprisingly element about this movie though was the
screenplay. The film is hilarious in some parts, in fact I'd argue that
it's funnier than most comedies that have come out this year. What
makes to movie unique to me was Watney's optimistic point of view. He
believes that he isn't going to die on Mars, and this transforms this
rather depressing situation into something comical instead. But when
you really think about it, this is a very personal film about some
people coming together to save somebody. That's it. And in today's
world, it's nice to hear an story about people coming together to save
one of their own. I have nothing bad to say about The Martian. It's the best film I've
seen all year.
