10
First Person Shooter - The Movie

* Spoiler Free *Just saw this at TIFF 2015 Midnight Madness. Judging by the constant
applause and laughter throughout, the audience LOVED it. I thought it
was truly INCREDIBLE and genuinely new... a landmark film. Hopefully
that will be recognized without hindsight. I believe Hardcore has the
chance to be Star Wars for this generation... or perhaps a Terminator
or a Reservoir Dogs. I'm writing this to help ensure that happens.
Context: I also thought Crank was great.The ENTIRE movie takes place in FIRST PERSON point of view (POV). ALL
90 MINUTES. It never gets old and the POV remains a strength
throughout. I never got motion sickness (and the movie moves fast -
incredibly fast). After the movie, the director mentioned the Vimeo
short would be unwatchably choppy on the big screen. 2 engineers spent
2 months creating a special rig with 2 magnetically stabilized GoPros
to shoot the film. This new rig is the reason why the audience didn't
get motion sickness.I've never seen action like this. It's not just regular action scenes
filmed in first person. It's superheroic parkour, fantastical fights,
and video game gunplay all presented in first person. Seen from a
regular angle, the action would likely be too cartoonish. The POV helps
ground everything, making it more believable. Added Bonus: During many
scenes you'll wonder how the POV camerman didn't get killed.Hardcore is incredibly violent, but rarely nasty. People who play
modern FPS's will not bat an eye, others will be shocked and appalled.
Expect a lot of controversy when the older crowd expresses grave
concern about this film, while the younger crowd rallies behind it.
Expect marketing to exploit this generation gap.Action aside, the movie has an unexpected sense of humour. Some driven
by situations, some driven by characters, some thanks to the POV.
There's not a lot, but what is there is gold - and a relief during all
that action.The main character, despite never appearing, is able to communicate a
personality. I believe FPSs will steal the ideas presented here. The
circle is complete.Which brings me to Jimmy (Sharlto Copley)... Can't say much but he's
easily as compelling as the action. His interactions with our hero (the
POV) are not straightforward, and always intriguing. Somehow they form
a bond, which winds up unexpectedly touching. Before the movie Sharlto
said it was the craziest, hardest role he's ever done and it's easy to
see why.The bad? The overall plot is good but not great. The bad guy, beyond
being powerful and evil, has less character than the POV. Despite some
attempts, women are relegated to lesser roles. (I believe the good far
FAR outweighs the bad)Russian Hollywood has created the best first person shooter ever made.
When POV becomes the new bullet time, you can thank Hardcore.
