8
Refreshingly original

Sitting here the day after viewing Rian Johnson's Looper, parts of it
are still falling in to place. Standing out amongst this years crop of
mostly underwhelming sequels and comic book adaptations, Looper
thunders onto the screen, showing, much like Inception did two years
ago, that there is a place in 2012 for fresh material and just how good
it can be when it's done right.The film tells the story of Joe (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), a hit-man for
an organised crime syndicate tasked with assassinating targets sent
from the future. After being confronted with his future self (Bruce
Willis) and failing to perform, Young Joe is forced to track down Old
Joe and finish the job before being tracked down himself by the
nefarious mob led by Abe (Jeff Daniels). However there is much more to
the story than the basic premise, and Johnson isn't afraid to keep
details close to his chest until later in the film than most movies of
this type, so I won't spoil them here.While certainly paying subtle homage to its predecessors, Looper is a
stunningly original sci-fi masterpiece, vastly superior to any of the
higher profile action releases this year. While certainly made on a
much larger playing field than Johnson's previous work (Brick, The
Brothers Bloom), there is still a small-scale, independent feel to the
film, and it benefits from clearly staying completely under the control
of the young director. Delivering excitement sprinkled with thoughtful
themes of personal sacrifice, he offers us much to chew on.Johnson understands that a successful action film doesn't need an
explosion every ten minutes, and allows ample time for developing
character and story, something which will likely divide audiences.
Looper is very deliberately constructed, and after the highly charged
opening establishing the intricate time-travel premise and direction of
the plot, Johnson scales back the action almost too much as he
ambitiously juggles the many and varied story elements he has created.
Thankfully, any weakness in the middle of the film is largely
overshadowed as Johnson launches the third act with such ferocity that
the stark change of pace leaves you breathless.Despite the problems in the middle of the film, Looper overcomes its
flaws purely by being that rare beast in Hollywood nowadays, the
totally original script. Not an adaptation, not a sequel or remake, but
a fresh idea from the mind of an immensely talented young film-maker.
In a perfect world, Looper would be the game changer it deserves to be,
slapping Hollywood studios across the face and announcing that not
everything has to be a PG-13 franchise based on a comic book. It's
unlikely that this will the case, and it remains to be seen whether or
not the film will even be a success, but it's encouraging to see that
there are young auteurs at work who are fighting to craft new and
exciting stories, even if we only get to see the results every year or
two.tinribs27.wordpress.com
