1
Watching Paint Dry

The synopsis for this movie sounds so much more interesting than it
actually is. There were no redeeming characters, no one was conflicted
over anything, no one wanted to achieve anything in particular. There
was no great passion, no inner turmoil, no big lesson to be learned,
not much of anything at all. I'm not dense, and I do enjoy subtlety in
a movie, but unfortunately this movie only hinted at possible conflicts
that never actually made it to screen. The motorcycle rider quits his job when he learns that he has a kid.
It's not a job he loves (but it could have been) and he doesn't
particularly care about the girl (though it would have been more
interesting if he did); she was just a one night stand from a year or
two earlier and he never bothered to call her again. Had he been
desperately looking for work, and finally resorted to robbing banks, it
might have been interesting, but no, he robbed banks as a first resort
and without great passion. Had the woman and her child been destitute,
had they been victims of domestic violence, then you might have
understood his desire to help them, but no, he just wanted to give them
money (which they didn't particularly need).Had the cop been tortured by the fact that he lied about the shooting,
had he been wanting to tell the truth but was conflicted; had he some
inner demon sabotaging him throughout his life, then his story might
have carried some weight, but no, he lived a normal life and advanced
his career as one might do.Had the motorcycle rider's son been desperately seeking a father figure
his whole life, then his discovery of the identity of the cop would
have been dramatic, but no, he had a normal life with a loving
step-father, and so the discovery was no big deal. But assuming it was
a big deal (a very big assumption) you might have expected him to exact
revenge with some clever plot, but no, he simply threatens to kill the
guy (for no apparent reason) and then changes his mind at the last
minuteof course.They missed the dramatic mark in every possible way. It was lazy
writing to say the least. A movie has to actually create conflict and
motivation, it can't leave it up to the audience to assume that people
are conflicted, or that something matters to them. I think anyone who
gave it a good review must have read way more into the movie than was
actually there. Wish I'd walked out. You might want to spend your time watching paint
dry...at least you'd save $10.
