5
Good enough? A review

Okay, I've never reviewed movies but I'll give it the old Jr. high try.
This movie with it's solid effects and even nicer fighting is still
flawed. Maybe a review is too strong of a word here's my bad/ good
list. I've left a grade to give a better Idea of my disapproval.The bad: 1. Focus the dang camera (C-), I'm not an expert but who the
hell is focusing? Lucy Liu during a big speech has her helper in focus
and she just off focus. If I spent $2000 on a wedding video I'd like
the bride in focus, geez. The focus was out of control in a lot of
places which was distracting. 2. Rza (D-) although I do really think this is a work of love and it
shows, WTH was he thinking staring in this? If he's too afraid of what
his friends think of him if he stops doing his best droopy impression,
don't be the lead actor! I mean it's 10-20 minutes, or however long
he's in this, of him looking emotionless. I mean grimace man or look
sad when bad things happen! How hard is it!!3. Flashbacks (F)There's an origin flashback an boy is it misguided and
uncomfortable! It's just so underdeveloped, maybe the extended version
would make sense of it but it really could have been shot better. I
imagine this is to Southern Americans (not South America, the Hey Y'all
kind etc), what bad American war movies are to Germans. If you're gonna
deface us do it with a little finesse. 4. Character motivations sucked(big ol' F), I mean really sucked! I
would have been happy to give this a 7 if the characters would make a
little sense. Somethings could have been resolved easily I think by
just a few lines of dialogue but nope it's all thrown at you with no
solid direction. 5. The "almost" makes it a crime(F), like where was everyone's head?
You have an almost great movie and no one could ask for help or give
it??6.Split screens (F), Why? Was action happening at the same time?, nope.
Bad call, again in the right hands maybe. Here 4 minutes of film that
wasn't worth the editing time.The good:1. Costumes(B+) were cool, I liked them even the goofy ones, had no
problems really. The wigs were really fun and funny.2. The action(A-), was really great. Fun and funny with no real let
downs you get into it and the end battle to me wasn't disappointing
except for rza's acting but he was actually passable here(sort of).3. Effects(A), yup solid, don't care if it looks Kill Billish. Come on,
I've actually watched anime since forever and that's how blood sprays
in most of those. Dumb to even bring kill bill into this(sort of).4. Weapons(A+) lots of great gags and deaths. You can tell a lot of
time went into conceiving these and the deaths.5.The villain(A++), Silver Lion and Bronze Lion are great and eat up
the screen, none of the heroes come close to these two guys charisma on
screen! I mean why the heroes played it so straight without any wink
wink moments is beyond me. Did they really think this was a serious
movie?Which comes to my overall review! 5/10 C+, basically there's a lot
going right here enough to be watchable, enjoyable even become a
classic b movie. But it was so close to being more it's a little sad. nuff said, MEMO Art
