8
Not the type of movie that a lot of Schwarzenegger fans are expecting!

'MAGGIE': Four Stars (Out of Five)An indie zombie flick, made on a budget of just $4 million, starring
Arnold Schwarzenegger and Abigail Breslin! It was directed by first
time feature filmmaker Henry Hobson and written by first time feature
film writer John Scott 3. The movie is actually more of a dramatic
character study, than an action or horror film, dealing with the
relationship between a teenage girl, in the Midwest, and her loving
father. The catch is that the girl is infected with a deadly zombie
virus. It's definitely not the type of movie that a lot of
Schwarzenegger fans are expecting, but I really liked it. The story is set in a small Midwest town, where a virus, called the
necroambulist virus, has broken out. It slowly turns it's victims into
zombies and the government deals with the problem by throwing 'the
infected' into isolation wards. Maggie (Breslin) is a young teenage
girl, who was recently infected by the disease. Her father, Wade
(Schwarzenegger), must do his best to care for her, in her last days,
and also come to terms with what must be done, when she finally
changes.I wasn't sure what exactly to expect, going into this movie. The
premise, and idea of Arnold Schwarzenegger starring in a low-budget
zombie drama flick, were both very intriguing to me. I am a little
disappointed it doesn't have more action, and gruesome thrills, but it
is a very well made drama film. Arnold gives, arguably, his best
performance to date, and Breslin is pretty impressive as well. I wish
there would have been a little more to the story, than just another
drama flick about a terminally ill teen, and her relationship with her
friends and family. It's almost like a zombie version of 'MY SISTER'S
KEEPER' or 'THE FAULT IN OUR STARS', except with a little
Schwarzenegger thrown in as well. I think he's making a lot of wise
career choices lately, and he's starting to resemble Clint Eastwood,
more and more, with each movie. This isn't a great film but it is a
nice entry in Arnold's impressively expanding resume.Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/GZMz2QipSqQ
