7
Moving and important...with a mind-blowing performance by Day-Lewis

Lincoln (2012) A highly polished, restrained, important movie.That doesn't make this an exciting movie. The acting is terrific, and
filming excellent (including a color saturation pulled back to give it
an old look without seeming affected). It is clearly expert in the way
we expect from Steven Spielberg above perhaps anyone, at least in the
mainstream conventional sense.But there are two things that make this movie a must see. One is the
content. It's about one of the two or three most important things ever
to happen in this country--the fight to end slavery during the Civil
War. This is such powerful stuff it will make you weep. (If it doesn't,
you'll have to ask why.) It's laid out as clearly and emphatically as
possible while still keeping accurate.The second thing is simply the overwhelming performance by Daniel
Day-Lewis. It is so good you forget it's a performance (unlike, for
example, his intensity in "There Will Be Blood" which stood out as a
work of acting above the movie). Here he is so woven into the fabric of
things he is indistinguishable from the historic truth, somehow. It's
really the magic of the transparency of movie-making of this kind.
Amazing performance.It seems sacrilege to say this but the movie isn't perfect. Because of
its material--getting the anti-slavery amendment through Congress--it
involves a lot of talk, and a lot of people that you have to keep track
of. I think Spielberg did this as good as it could be done, so no
criticism there, but it does mean a lack of physical and even emotional
drama through much of the film. I don't mean it's dull, just that it's
conversational. I also found shreds of Spielberg's Frank Capra quality
of making the movies--and his subjects--a little simplified. He ties up
loose ends. He makes it all a fine package, very fine. Maybe too fine
for what I would call high art. At times.I think we'll have an easier time judging it in six months, or six
years. Also the subject matter makes it almost unassailable, since
clearly most of us are all for the passing of any anti-slavery
legislation.See this for all the reasons you have heard. Don't miss it. Maybe down
a coffee before you go, but see it no matter what. As I say, it's
important. It reminds you of greatness, and that's not something to
miss.UPDATE over one year later: I see that I accepted a lot of decisions by
the writer and director as their prerogative, like focussing on one
issue and narrowing to a short period of time. I had no bones with the
scope of the movie. But in retrospect I see how the limitations of time
and scope and background also create a sense of mis-information. That
is, if you want a bigger picture of Lincoln, this movie is not quite
right. Its aggrandizement is also not unavoidable, like the somewhat
insipid (and yet moving) recital of the Gettysburg Address at the
beginning by soldiers. Overall, though, I stick to my main thought--see
it, and soak up what you can, without expecting perfection. Yes, see it
for what it is, nothing less.
