1
Crud

Crud may refer to:Waste, dirt, feces, or something of poor quality.^^^ That right there is what Creed is. A massive pile of waste, dirt
and feces.Lets start with the pathetically contrived opening fight. Could they
have made it any more trite and pathetic. It was like watching a drama
class over act and fail miserably.Little hard done by black boy gets taken in by his step-mom (or whoever
she was, who give a $hit) and lives a life of luxury in what looked
like the equivalent of the white house in size and surprise surprise,
turns out to be a spoilt brat. Why in the hell would i give a flying
toss about this over privileged penile head at all????? Congratulations
on making me hate the character in a matter of minutes. From there on in, I didn't give a flying toss about this loser. He is
conceited and arrogant and offers up his prized car if anyone can beat
him in a sparring match, and gets floored. Lol. What a loser.How/why would anyone care about this guy? i get that he was supposed to
be a bit of a big head like his father but you don't make him totally
unlikeable. What else happens in this dud of a movie...lets see...a contrived,
pointless, irritating love interest, which was a major ball ache and
snooze fest. God awful dialogue that made me howl with laughter. Awful
camera work. Don't even get me started on the Scouser boxer...ha ha.
Worst acting in the world.By the time the Liverpudlians manager came to talk to Rocky and penile
head Creed about fighting, i turned the abomination off. A complete
waste of everyones time.The joke about taking a picture of the training routine and putting it
on the 'cloud' was pathetic, rocky not being able to spell Shadow...I find Michael B. Jordan to be a very unlikeable person as well. I also
think he's a sub par actor. How many times does he have to pout
throughout the film? It looks like there's something wrong with his
chin, and I just got irritated looking at his smug face constantly. The
guy is a massive bore.Creed is a joke. shame on you Stallone for entertaining this bull$hit
film.
