3
A once classic film series hits rock-bottom

The first two Terminator films are among the best of their genre and
are brilliant films also in their own right. Rise of the Machines
started the series' decline and had its faults but also had some good
things that made it better than its reputation, while Terminator
Salvation although with its moments was even more disappointing. While
not a complete disaster, the latest in the Terminator franchise is the
worst yet and sees a once classic series at rock bottom.Are there any good points? Not many, but yes there are. The best thing
about Terminator Genisys is Arnold Schwarzenegger, while more subdued
than he can be he is rock-solid and has the most intensity and charisma
of the entire cast. Despite not having a lot of screen time and being
mute, Byung-hun Lee is nonetheless credible as T-1000. Some of the
scenery is quite atmospheric and striking.Everything else was severely wanting. The rest of the cast are not good
at all, with Jai Courtney being by far the worst actor for Kyle Reese
of the series in a performance that is both insipid and annoying (which
didn't entirely surprise me seeing as out of the little I've seen of
him he's always struck me as a lazy actor with an arrogant ego). Just
as much as the anaemic Emilia Clarke faring the worst of all the
actresses playing Sarah Connor, who behaves in a way that you'd expect
a stereotypical bratty and vapid high school teenager to act but not
Sarah Connor. Jason Clarke is not quite as stiff as Christian Bale was
in Terminator Salvation, but it is still a shock to see the role of
John Connor being performed and written so blandly. The chemistry
between them is also barely there, most of the time it's even
non-existent. JK Simmons is basically wasted, and his dialogue and
character are forced and out of place.The characters are like personality-less ciphers, with none of what
made them so memorable before as characters and no convincing conflict,
in a film that definitely could have benefited from less characters and
more development (which is non-existent) . The script is overstuffed
and confused, as well as tonally unbalanced with overly-complex
scientific jargon, cheesy one-liners (even Schwarzenegger's don't work
particularly well this time), misplaced comedy (that's even more
distracting than in Rise of the Machines and used with even less
subtlety) and too many ideas barely explored. The story, as well as
having a stitched-together episodic feel, is at best a head-scratcher,
with it being confused to being at times incoherent as a result of
doing too little with too much. It's also very dull, not just because
of the leaden pacing but because there is not much new and little
interesting is done with the ideas presented in the film and it
completely lacks atmosphere, thrills, mystery or suspense, and any
drama is both heavy handed and lacking in heart.Direction from Alan Taylor is lazy, favouring spectacle over depth and
story and character development. And unfortunately the spectacle is not
that good. The special effects are not terrible, but they at best never
rise above just-passable (the worst of the series in this regard, they
are quite poor actually in the beginning section and fake-looking too
in other parts), are used with little to no imagination, and there is
too many of them (sometimes in places where they were not even needed).
The action sequences are equally painfully unimaginative, are sloppily
edited, are leadenly and predictability choreographed and contain no
tension or thrills whatsoever, let alone any fun. It's very erratically
shot and scored with a mix of overbearing bombast and dirge-like drone.
The ending also felt incredibly forced and tacked on.Overall, Terminator Genisys was a pretty poor and disappointing film,
and is by far the worst of the Terminator franchise. 3/10 Bethany Cox
