5
a film without strong follow-through on its premise

Don't Breathe is a grisly, unpleasant exploitation film about
characters that you don't like going up against a man who is at first
somewhat sympathetic and then turns out to be a ridiculous mess of a
(human) monster, and it's directed with some skill. I almost wish it
had been made with greater sleaze or a total abandon for logic and
taste and become a complete Grindhouse exercise, but the problem for me
with the film is that director Fede Alvarez - again collaborating with
Evil Dead producers Sam Raimi and Robert Tapert - wants to have it both
ways, to have characters that, as the audience, you don't really like
or have sympathy for so you don't have to worry *too* much once the
psycho ex-military Zatoichi man is getting his payback... until he
wants you to like them.There's this sense in the movie that it's dancing with a grey area of
having strong, morally ambiguous characterizations - you'll feel one
way about the young woman Rocky and her compatriots Alex and "Money"
(yeah, that's his name, like a thug on SVU or something), but maybe not
everyone will feel that way until the peril and suspense and terror
kicks in. That's fine, as well as it is with the antagonist (who, in
the alternate movie that may exist of his story, he's the protagonist).
But the problem is that the characters are set in a realistic
horror-thriller situation and yet they carry that Dumb Movie Character
logic that carries little logic at all.This isn't the case for all of the film, and for the first half I was
with it... up to a point. It's certainly got some logic gaps that you
got to suspend disbelief for, and things like 'why if this blind
ex-military man has all this money is he on the only house on a
dilapidated Detroit city block with no one else living there, like out
of Stephen King's Roadwork or something. And the filmmaker and his DP
carry a lot of heft when it comes to the direction and the look of the
film: they know how to bring an audience in by moving the camera in
creative ways, having staging that makes sense, and pacing (in these
early scenes) that makes things intense for us just as much as the
characters... again, up to a point.And then the movie decides to... well, here's where spoilers kick in:
the guy (he doesn't have a name so Sgt Hartman-Zatoichi works well) is
not simply some old dude living by his lonesome having lost a daughter
to a fatal hit and run. No, he has his special set of
I-can-kill-you-with-my-hands-or-my-guns, AND more than that is the
reveal that in his basement there's a lair for the woman who hit his
daughter who... he is also keeping locked up as she is knocked up with
his child so that he can replace his dead daughter and... this comes
into play even more terrifyingly in the last minutes when the girl
Rocky gets in his grasp and... Jesus Christ movie! It's around here, or
just before give or take around the moment when you think a character's
been stabbed with a pair of gardening shears but it's revealed he is
still alive(?!) (and this after seemingly to already be dead from a
no-one-survives-that-s*** fall through a window), that the movie goes
into Full Stupid and lazy territory. Again, I wish that if Don't Breathe leaped into completely crazy and
bonkers terrain, but it doesn't have the courage for that; it's caught
in this nexus of trying to be a legitimately creepy and fearful
experience done with direction that tries to sometimes call back to
things like Fincher's Panic Room (also a 'bottle' one-location
scenario), and being a movie with full on exploitation (the title
recalls for me Edgar Wright's DON'T trailer from the actual Grindhouse
experience), featuring characters we don't care about that are
basically drawn (though with some real emotion from the actress playing
Rocky) and thrown into nightmarish, violent set pieces.I don't like when a filmmaker cheats me with information that's dealt
out to me. I don't like having the rug pulled out from under me even if
it's something that I should take for granted like a character survives
something they shouldn't of or a character doesn't kill someone when
they have ample opportunity to (you'll know the moment, or moments,
when they come). I leave Don't Breathe feeling rather empty and angry
instead of elated, which terrifying movies can do - see Green Room
earlier this year, also about characters caught way in over their
heads, for a much greater example of this - but its ugliness is in
multiple ways: in how it treats rape and sexual assault (it ends up
being a cheap out to having a stronger 2nd/3rd act), in how it treats
bodily wounds (come on man), the logic of having a home security system
at all if there's, you know, a RAPE DUNGEON in your basement, and how
it treats sound design. Yes, for a movie like this the sound design
gets weak after a while.
