3
I am Embarrassed for Nolan!

We saw Dunkirk on opening night, I was excited, I'm a huge WW2 buff.
The incredible human drama at Dunkirk has mostly been overlooked by
Hollywood. So July 20 has been on my calendar for a while. Boy did I
fall for the hype!I must say something positive first... great war footage! I loved the
spitfires! Knowing that Nolan shot this move with only a few post
effects is impressive. The scenes inside the ships were fantastic.Now, onto the sad truth as I see it. I wish the producers would have
spent some of the $150 million on a script. I didn't know you could
shoot a historical period movie with a steep budget and not have one.
It's as if this was just a big historical re-enactment of the Dunkirk
rescue and the film crew said, hey, we should grab a couple of decent
actors and throw some cheesy lines at them, we'll make a movie! There
was an old-timer from the business that once told me, "if you've got a
great story you can shoot your movie thru banjo strings on black &
white film".I got the impression that Nolan was hell-bent on shooting realistic war
footage and he fell in love with those shots and scenes, forgetting
that the audience would appreciate a plot. There are so many
interesting plot twists from the actual event. We never really saw
anything from London, France or Germany where most of the strategy was
planned. Nolan focused on the beachhead and the channel. The realism
was quite good, but too long and confusing.The sound track had many problems too. The mix was hot, if you wanted
to listen the sparse dialogue, good luck. For some reason the director
chose to loop this maddening drone sequence throughout the movie. It
was so obvious it had to be intentional. I was hoping the version we
saw was just an advance copy with a rough mix, nope. One last thing,
I'm not sure the average movie goer will appreciate the way Nolan
repeated scenes. Apparently the footage was so good from 4 different
angles we should show all of them, back to back. I get it, great film makers take chances. There have been many
examples, especially in the indie- film world of masterpieces that
tried risky new techniques, sadly, Dunkirk isn't one of them.To wrap this up... I'm glad I saw Dunkirk. I think most WW2 buffs will
see it no matter what anybody says.
