7
Movie Review: Cult of Chucky (2017)

Let me start off by saying that the "Chucky" craze has been around for
a long time, "Chucky" has gone through several changes over the years a
lot like "Fred Krueger". They both started out as terrifying entities
but over time sorta turned into demented blood crazed comedians, but
throughout they always had their saving grace as horror icons. That
being said, Child's Play 1-3 created a stone cold killer made from
plastic, after the original trilogy he became a somewhat parody of
himself...until now.Cult of Chucky returns our favourite killer doll back to his darker
roots but still embedded within is the dark humour that us horror fans
smile at amidst all his gory glory.The film opens up with fan favourite (Alex Vincent) as Andy Barclay,
who was seen in the end credits of Curse who is now a mature young man
still fighting with his daemons. Whilst on a date played by beautiful
(Allison Dawn Doiron), things escalate and send us to a brief but
fantastically twisted opener. The first eight minutes of this film is
one of the best opening sequences since the original classic film.Once the credits start we fans see a beautifully edited montage of
footage from all the 'Child's Play' films that we all grew up with
which lead us into the mind's eye of one of the sole survivors of
'Curse' Nica Pierce (played by Fiona Dourif, daughter of "Chucky"). We
find her now institutionalized and trying to come to terms with the
murders with the help Dr. Foley, (played by Michael Therriault) who
convinced she is improving sends her to a minimum security ward which
entails a unholy reunion with everybody's favourite serial killer.
Still somewhat convinced she was more involved with the murders than
"Chucky" she still fights these doubts as the killings start back up
again with the arrival of a therapeutic Good Guy Doll.The visuals are beautifully shot, as is the tension. There are also
some nicely placed cameos therein which add to the storyline, more than
just fan candy. The death scenes contain some nice throwbacks to some
of the brutality of the original films as well as adding some
gratuitous gore of the gorehounds that are fans of the series.There have been mixed reviews mainly due to the change of Good Guy
Mythos. These mythos are explained as the film picks up to its shocking
finale as well as Director Don Mancini mentioned before that there will
be more 'Child's Play' films and these new changes will be a part of
the new vision in the franchise.In short, "Chucky" IS BACK and ready to play!!!!
