5
A mixed bag of bones

Tim Burton has made a quintessential Tim Burton movie and the problem
is that it is a Tim Burton movie in the worst possible way.
'Frankenweenie' is a cute little movie but being cute isn't enough to
sustain it. Once the viewer has gotten past saying 'awww' at the cute
little doggie 'Frankenweenie' becomes a very boring and predictable
movie. It's gorgeous to look at but in the end Burton populates his
film with soulless characters(which for all of Burton's strengths is
his Achilles' heal).'Frankenweenie' is a cute character and film. The dog is utterly
adorable and anyone who loves dogs will love 'Frankenweenie' to a
certain degree. I think the story of a boy and his dog is so classic
and tugs at so many hearts that it kind of blinds people to when it is
done badly as it is here. The dog is cute but the boy is boring.
'Frankenweenie' does not understand adolescence and thus it kind of
fails at developing a rapport with it's audience in my opinion. Victor
Frankenstein doesn't act like a real kid, he merely goes through the
motions with hyper intensified trappings of childhood surrounding him.
Burton loves archetypes and so instead of building characters he goes
for crazy archetypes to substitute for character development. The
sports vs. science fiction conflict is what is on Victor's plate for a
good chunk of 'Frankenweenie' and I'm sorry but this is boring and
predictable. 'Frankenweenie' doesn't have a single character in it.
Burton has taken molded characters and sets them free on rigid paths. I
just find this all the more disappointing in a children's movie because
children's movies should give children's intelligence credit. But at least the dog is cute.The animation is of course stellar and Burton stages brilliant effects
sequences that really showcase the quirkiness of everything. I was
really hoping for something in the line of 'Beetlejuice' and while
'Beetlejuice' had a much better script visually 'Frankenweenie' does
have moments that match the high points of that film. The film is at
it's best when it acknowledges it's inspiration. I loved seeing scenes
that hearken back to the Universal Monsters. By far my favorite
sequence is the ending in the burning windmill which seems like James
Whale's 'Frankenstein' on some tripped out hallucinogen right down to
Victor being designed as the spitting image of Colin Clive. Is 'Frankenweenie' worth the time? It's a Tim Burton movie and it's one
of his weaker ones but I think kids ultimately will get some enjoyment
out of it. The boy and his dog still has weight even if the actual
story doesn't it.
