4
Maybe a set-up for the next installment?

POSSIBLE SPOILERSI wasn't sure what I felt as I walked out of the movie theater. I had
just watched this couple bicker for 2 hours. Somehow, I wasn't bored,
and was not happy to see it end.The GoodAmazing long scenes with two masterful actors gave me a chance to
appreciate their talent. Deply's Celine brought to mind a stern Hillary
Clinton and Hawke's Jesse a bumbling, clueless dude. Bill Clinton? Hawke's angst over abandoning his teenage son in favor of this new
woman and his new family will certainly resonate with so many men
today. He used an example of Deply being late to pick up their young
daughters from school and the panic she felt to explain how he feels
that about his son all the time. Well played.The BadNo magic between the two, so little affection. The bickering and
"issues" would have been easier to digest had there remained some kind
of magical, lyrical love between them. We could have felt the tug
between true passion and the burdens of real life and real conflict. As
it sits now, all we have are the conflicts. Just stop, is what I was
thinking.But Maybe . . . It could be that when the next installment arrives in 2022, the couple
will have fallen love again. The daughters will be 16, perhaps in
boarding school, the son from a first marriage will be a young man and
maybe even presenting a grandchild. Who know if all of these characters
will be alive? There could be a death, no? If the couple falls in love again, or becomes bonded again over
tragedy, we could look back at this film as commentary on the burden
that raising children is to a romantic relationship. If the couple are
still together 9 years hence, and able to love more and bicker less,
perhaps even showing compassion toward each other, we could all say:
see, it's best to endure the tough times and let the love return.However, if this is to be the last movie of the series, not good. Very
unsatisfying. I guess I'll reserve judgment on this installment until
2022. Time will tell.
