10
Remarkably Endearing

ParaNorman looks like a throwback to the good old campy stop-motion
animated films. The concept may not sound so original, but the designs
and the themes of the story are the main appeal here. The movie is fun
and wonderful to look at. While it goes through a crazy adventure
comedy, there is a surprising twist that made this so endearing. It is
something that we don't usually see in an animated film, but because of
that we intend to love it. ParaNorman is funny, creepy, smart, and
affecting.ParaNorman is oddly different as an animated family film. Unlike the
others, this one has a dark and mature context, but by sentimental
means. Although the story is about spirits and zombies, the true core
of this film is the emotion and the message that it is trying to show
us. There's a couple of moments that are quite affecting. Usually is
when Norman is being alone in his gloomy life. In other parts, the film
is ought to be funny. The comedy sometimes feel way apart from the
drama, but they still work anyway.The stop-motion animation indeed looks marvelous. These little figures
really brought themselves to life as their voice actors provide their
personalities. The campiest part, the zombies, are quite impressive to
look at. It's undeniably solid. The music score sure knows which part
is suppose to be gloomy, campy, or just ordinary. It's a great effect
to the scenes and you'll love it. The rest of the movie is all
ridiculous and fun little set pieces that are entertaining enough to
enjoy.ParaNorman is surprisingly strong. The depth of the story made this
movie so special. It's still filled with comedy and lightheartedness.
In the end, it turns out to be endearing. It's a rare kind of family
film that is brave to show what it wanted to show. It might be hard for
some to understand its sentiment, but if there's anything else why
anyone would like this film then it's because of its majestic
animation. ParaNorman is simply great and it's easy enough to
recommend.
