10
A Rare Entertaining AND Technologically Honest SciFi

I went to watch it because I like scifi and AI/robot theme TV/movies in
general. Some I hate (Her, A.I.) some I love (Blade Runner, Battlestar
remake, Wall-E). This one, I love. I didn't have an opinion about Neill
Blomkamp. Didn't even know Hugh Jackman is in this movie so it was a
pleasant surprise.I was emotionally moved and entertained. Chappie is one of - no, THE
MOST action-packed YET emotionally-engaging and HEARTFUL movies I've
watched in a while, no bored moments and no time for going into
meta-analysis. Can't believe I cared about a clunky metalic wire-ly
robot, haven't since the far-cuter Wall-E anyway. Dev Pattel is well cast, did the role total justice. Sigourney did her
part with just the right note. Hugh succeeded in compressing his
bigger-than-life self into an unglamorous (even unflattering)
thug-in-cubicle-job role. Very noble of him, lending his superstar
weight to this project. (showing Mr.BirdMan how a real-life hero
gracefully bow out of superhero phase of his film role)In spite of the tension from start to end, people burst out laughing A
LOT throughout. There were lots of humor, but nothing contrived, just
Grade AAA seamless storytelling. And if the key characters act crazy,
it is explained why, without being captain obvious. Dialogs and
expositions, 99% SHOW vs tell, Mckee would be proud, not that it
mattered against the hateful bigots of pro critics Borg contingent. I
decided somewhere along 20 minutes in - I REALLY like this directorial
voice. The technical bits: the story craft, the plotting, pacing, editing, art
directing, effects, all superb and SEAMLESSLY EXECUTED. Zero complaint
there. My only beef is as usual the theological stuff but I will not
trash something this brilliant because it doesn't agree with my
spiritual viewpoint. Side note on IRRELEVANCY OF RT CRITIC SCORE (and probably Academy
Self-Awards) I never cared about Rotten Tomatos score but my other half
love to check it after every movie. We both anticipated the critics
will be hateful with this one because it features a non-American
director and 2 non-American male leads! But we didn't expect the
shamelessness level. At least the audience disagreed by a HUGE margin,
and the audience WORLDWIDE will continue to disagree as the box office
telly of Rest of The World come in. This movie is trashed due to PURE
POLITICAL reason. DUH. There are some really tightly-wound-up, bitter
ANALysts in the mainstream "art" critic scene, who have forgotten how
to feel sentient, and lost touch with everything, obviously.Anyway, go watch it, just for entertainment. If you happen to be moved
then it is a bonus. It will prove that you have a heart, and more
sentient than the average Borgs who's tied into "networked group mind"
opinions.Meanwhile I totally look forward to a sequel. 9/10. +1 just to annoy
the art-haters.
