8
Pass the Popcorn! review

To be honest – when I first heard of 'The Lego Movie' I thought it to 

be a ridiculous idea and automatically dismissed it as something bad. 

However, when I gave it a second thought, I realized I kind of liked 

the idea. I mean, why not create a big budget movie that takes place 

inside the Lego universe? At least it's somewhat original (there have 

been previous Lego movies, but they were all direct-to-video, and from 

what I realize – they are much different from this one). And in this 

age of spin-offs, remakes, prequels, etc. originality is more valuable 

than ever. Add to that the amazing cast in the movie, and I, for one, 

needed no more reasons to see this movie – and I ultimately enjoyed it.



The movie opens with the movie's villain, Lord Business (voiced by Will 

Ferrell), stealing a mysterious artifact called the 'Kragle' (I hope 

I've written it correctly) from a wizard named Vitruvius (voiced by 

Morgan Freeman), in order to destroy the Universe. During their 

encounter, Vitruvius tells of a prophecy about a Chosen one, who will 

find another mystical artifact, called 'The Resistance Piece' and will 

put an end to Business's mettle. 8 and a half years later, Lord 

Business's alter ego – President Business – is ruling the whole world 

in a sort of totalitarian way. We then meet the movie's protagonist, 

Emmet (voiced by Chris Pratt), who one day accidentally stumbles upon 

'The Resistance Piece' and is thought to be the Chosen one by a group 

of Lego characters called the MasterBuilders.



Despite the fact that The Lego Movie's plot summary may seem a bit 

complicated (and despite the fact that I hailed the movie's originality 

a moment ago), the movie is actually pretty predictable and formulaic. 

That isn't necessarily a bad thing – actually, the movie has an 

explanation of some sort for why it is so predictable – but the movie 

does get slightly tedious from time to time. The only other possible 

downsides to the movie besides that, are the movie's third act, which 

gets clingy in some parts, and some of the action scenes. I like how 

the animation is a combination of both stop motion and CGI, but this 

unusual style of animation may be hard to follow during a few action 

scenes – and I fear this scenes might be even harder to follow if you 

decide to watch the movie in 3D. Nonetheless, all this downsides to the 

movie are easily overshadowed by its qualities.



The movie's biggest quality is definitely that it is fun. The Lego 

Movie is a nostalgic look back at childhood and it helps to realize 

that our child games were often very silly, ridiculous, over the top 

and funny – and in that way The Lego Movie could be better appreciated 

by adults than by children. Virtually almost every scene contains a 

silly joke or gag and I was constantly giggling throughout the whole 

movie. The Lego Movie easily succeeds in being a feel good, 

ridiculously entertaining movie that is worth your time. Moreover, 

another The Lego Movie's quality is that it has quite an impressive 

cast (Pratt, Ferrell, Banks, Day, Brie, Freeman, Hill, Neeson, 

Offerman, O'Neil, etc.), that portrays a bunch of very colorful and 

memorable characters. In short, if you are interested in watching a 

nostalgic throwback to your childhood or just want to watch a fun, 

feel-good movie, you mustn't skip The Lego Movie.



Rating: 8/10 
