3
I am astonished by the reviews and score

I begin my review by saying that I respect the history and the events
that took place in WW2 and I have the utmost respect for the guys who
gave their life for that cause. Having said that, let me tell you my
opinion about the movie. And only the movie.Well, first of all I found it dull and uninteresting. The actors were
fake. The scenes looked like rehearsals and uncut material. It was
split in two half: the first was about nothing (well you could say
stubbornness and stupidity because I was made to fell nothing for the
main character except annoyed and uninterested) and the second about
guts and gore. Did I said the actors looked FAKE? Oh, yeah. But man, oh
man that was the main problem for me. The actors looked fake and the
entire movie looked like a poorly made joke.The plot was something like this: let's establish the motives, good.
Now the cause... good and now the effects. Perfect. Now we can move on.
The audience got it. And so on and so forth. Now lets slip in some
romance. You can't have a movie without romance. Good, check! Now let's
be jerks about it and make his life uncomfortable in the army, check!
But hey, he got beliefs, check! ONE BIG CHECK LIST. No emotion, no
heart, no nothing. A dead flat feeling.Let me tell you few spoilers from the movie that I found to be really
bad.- the scene where he meets the guys from the army in the barrack. Why
in the hell should you put a naked guy (no brains, just muscles) to do
pull-ups naked? Why? Because the target audience appreciate it? Little
girls can't watch a movie that has no naked buff guys in it? I can only
imagine the guys who made that crap scene: OK, guys I have an idea! We
will introduce a stupid character that will do pull-ups naked in the
barrack. But why? Doesn't matter, but it will be very funny and in that
way we please the target audience. And check that out. We will make him
run naked outside the barrack because the sergeant wouldn't let him get
dressed and he will be forced to run naked during their exercises. Ha
ha, so funny, NOT!.- the scene where they fight the Japanese. At some point the tough guy
in the unit picks up a half dismembered body to use it as a shield and
charged the battlefield killing 20 Japanese. WTF? At that point I was
laughing and couldn't believe how bad this looks. Mel is becoming
senile.- another scene when some doctor got wounded and Dodds wanted to give
him plasma and the doctor says "No, give it to the other guy I don't
know!". And he did. After several minutes we see a scene where Dodds
asks about the doctor and another guy says "He didn't make it. He
didn't have the plasma". And he makes a stupid face and we as the
audience understand everything. WOW that was very educating. It was
explained to us like we were some retards and didn't understand the
sacrifice he made. Very poorly done. Cheap.The battle looked like it was made by acrobats all jumping in
spectacular ways, turning, twisting. All was about guts and gore. The
more gore the better. Its as if the film was thought to get better with
every gruesome scene over and over again. But it got worse. At some
point after seeing so many body parts it became a joke. It began to
fail and I was made to smile at how stupid this looks. Every scene made
me think how the directors were scheming and constipating with ideas
that were suppose to shock us until they run out of ideas and they just
put more guts, gore and blood. That will shock them.I can continue to rant about this movie as every scene has flaws and
doesn't deliver. I wouldn't call this movie an Oscar or even a mention.
Mel's only good movie was Braveheart and I stand by that. I cant
believe how easy people fall for this violence nonsense mixed with
religion and patriotism. Could it be that this a recipe for successful
movies? Or we are ashamed to admit this is a crap movie because we are
afraid that others will look upon us and accuse us we don't respect
history and heroes? Wake up people!
