3
Lame, ridiculous and illogical

Very disappointed would be a good summation for this film especially
considering it's early rating here. Once the review process has
exhausted the fans and people who haven't seen or heard of the comic
are reviewing it I expect it'll fall like a stone.The major flaws as I see them (spoiler alert!). The whole concept of a
train being the last salvation of mankind on a frozen planet is just
beyond belief. Where does the train stop for servicing to it's
undercarriage etc. without any stations? Who maintains the track? An
engine that runs on magic as much as anything! Why not make it nuclear
or at least something believable. If you were to set up a society in a
closed environment why wouldn't everyone have a purpose with controlled
breeding rather than be lugging around many people with no contribution
to the whole. Why would you engineer a rebellion to control population?
There are many better ways. Why would you expect some rebel to want
your top job doing things your way? The very word rebel suggests that a
change of system is wanted.Major flaws aside there are other issues with the film. The characters
are not believable. They belong in the comic it's based on. Nobody has
made any effort to translate them to film or realised that some
adjustments are even necessary. Film requires a different approach and
nobody who made this film understands that. A great example of how to
do it right is Dredd. This is a great example of how to do it wrong.
The film tries to open up great philosophical issues but fails to do so
due to the setting they are working in, ie a comic book. You
continuously think that none of this is real and so pay no attention to
the great moral dilemmas they are trying to foist on you. It's akin to
being lectured by a 10 year old.On top of the major flaws there are many minor ones. I'll just give the
one example of the hero of the piece stuffing his arm in a moving
machine to save one child (didn't bother to look for anything better
suited to the task such as a steel bar) whilst then dooming that child
to death with everyone-else.The one redeeming quality of the film is it's well made. It's not
remotely enough to save it from being a turkey though.
