1
Sooooo bad it's almost funny.

Cringe-worthy mistakes. If it was just a little worse it would be
funny. Instead -just embarrassing to watch. Before we start - check out the 10/10 IMDb user review. Clearly written
by a production member. Easy guess I reckon. Hilarious. Yes. And
delusional.Anyway, back to the task;>The family start out feeling alien and uncomfortable in this rough,
dry, remote central desert town. Later in the movie you learn they came
FROM THE NEXT TOWN! The dad drives back there to see the old school
teacher. Really? They found the next town that weird compared to the
nearest town??>It's a 40 degree summer they tell us. But nobody has sweat marks on
their clothes even in the desert scenes. (BTW - everyone is always
dressed in fresh crisp clothing, straight out of the packet. Unless
they have neatly painted-on dust) Everyone looks cool as a cucumber.
The little boy even wakes up in the middle of the night under a DOONA
with goose bumps! Was this movie shot in winter?> Solution - add a loud cicada sound effect. Oops first attempt and
they used crickets instead - which chirp at night. But Nicole wakes up
to them... At least they used the cicada effect for the rest of the
movie. Crazy thought - if its a movie set in the brutal hot desert...
why not just shoot in summer? I guess blame Nicole's schedule.> At the start there is a fly-over of the desert town. Maybe 50 houses
spread out amongst salt bush and red sand. Looks like a modern mining
town in NT or WA. Miracle! Later in the movie, the main street is
something out of NSW or VIC built in the 1880's -with enough shops to
look after 20,000.>And the pub has lush green overgrown grass next to it... in a Central
Desert town, in 40 degrees... And the family house, late in the movie,
has big thick forest in the distance. Looks like outer Melbourne. Where
did the central desert go?> The kid has severe burns all over his face... so Nicole runs into the
hospital room and grabs HIS FACE in her hands... Thanks mum.> Both Nic and Joe get hit by the dust storm. But later in the day at
the house - Joe is all showered in clean clothes but Nic is still
looking like something the cat dragged in. > Hugo Weaving: "I'll see myself out". Umm Hugo - you are standing next
to the door.>Nicole hugs the little boy and says something like "Ohh darling you're
home" then three seconds later screams at him to talk. Emotional light
switch.>Speaking of 3 seconds. There is an uncut shot of a full sex scene with
Nic and Jo that was about 23 seconds long. One cut or two cuts and we
could have believed it was a longer scene. Instead, we see ridiculous
flacid-to-champagne corks.. in 23 seconds.> Umm what scene comes next? Director shuffles deck of 4 cards and
says: "Ohh... I pulled out the card that says "desert sunset shot". No
wait we've done that 5 times already. New card; it says "someone knocks
on the front door. Door ripped open in apprehension". As long as that
doesn't happen more than 10 times in the film i think it can work
again. No wait - we haven't shown that same flyover of Kings Canyon for
a while... 4th time lucky. In between, just show the dad getting angry.
Or Nicole trying to have sex with people for no reason or people trying
to have random sex with her, for no obvious reason either.SPOILER > Plot fail: The whole grandmother scene outside the super
market about "please, please, did... did "the land" take her?" is
entirely emotionally redundant to the audience. We know "the land"
didn't do it - we just got told she got in a car! Did anyone in
production actually see the movie before it was released?SPOILER > Plot. So umm all the picnic-at-hanging-rock inspired Kings
Canyon shots playing with the plot idea "the land" took her, or the
"dad abused her" hints, or the "mum abused her" hints, or the "tattoo
kids" took her, or the brain-damaged worker got her... all those
potential plot lines got trashed/resolved with "she got in a car".
Seriously. that was it? Oh. OK. I guess that's it. >Joseph Feines is always concerned and angry. Always. Every scene. What
a journey. From C&A to C&A, via C&A. Get that guy (or the script) an
emotional gearbox, please. This movie had emotions: every actor got
one.Let's not be too negative. There is one good thing in this train wreck: Maddison Brown. She plays
the daughter. Thrown into a $5 script, a $4 plot with $3 characters and
$2 continuity... she is $1 million dollars! She out-acts everyone.
Great screen presence. Shame she disappears so soon. The movie fell in
a heap once she was gone. Film makers in Australia should be issued with govt license before they
can say "I'm an Australian film maker". That brand is already deep in
the toilet. This just jams it further past the s-bend. It's a shame - it could have been good. Choose one plot line. Shoot it
in summer. Shoot it in a desert town. Move beyond people opening doors,
sunsets and gorge-flyovers... Let the characters have a range of
emotions and reasons for having them. A half decent movie is there,
deep inside this train wreck.If I'm too harsh - blame the internet and don't take it personally.
Films are a team effort - everyone is to blame. And I'm just one
person, probably a ratbag. Besides, the lady next to me said she liked
it.
