10
Identity Takes Time to Discover

To solely categorize this film as an examination of Chiron, a young 

African American who has to deal with being gay is accurate but 

inadequate. It wouldn't be inadequate to also categorize it as a movie 

about drug abuse, school bullying, and isolation. However, if someone 

were to ask me what MOONLIGHT is truly about I would say that, at it's 

core, it's a film about teaching a child how to swim, feeling the sand 

on your skin, and cooking a meal for an old friend. 



Director Berry Jenkins is not afraid to be poetic, to guide his film 

away from conventional storytelling and offer his audience something to 

connect to in their own way. The way his camera roams around is 

sensually magnificent; he knows when to cut to the next shot and when 

to linger a few seconds longer. But above all else, his ability to add 

an extra texture to each scene is awe-inspiring; it's more than just 

style for the sake of style; it's essential to the movie's argument.



From the very first shot to the very last, MOONLIGHT is about as 

beautiful a movie as you're likely to see this year. The colours are 

rich and luminous; James Laxton's cinematography is visually immersive 

leaving you stranded inside the story of the film. It moves at a 

smooth, welcoming pace. The music, whether it be the classical or 

hip-hop selections as well as Nicholas Britell's subtle score, is 

perfect. And the performance are, well they're the cherry on top. 



It's uncanny how similar the 3 actors, who played the kid, teenage, and 

adult versions of Chiron behaved and acted; you'd almost think it was 

the same actor who played all three roles. Mahershala Ali and Naomie 

Harris are more deserving of Oscar nominations than just about anyone 

I've seen this year. They may be the standouts, but all the 

performances, ranging from the children to the adults, are so raw and 

powerful; a standing ovation for the casting director is in order. 



But perhaps the thing about this movie that deserves the most acclaim 

is its open-endedness; it's fight against straightforward 

categorization and recap. MOONLIGHT so much more than a movie about 

growing up gay; it's about overcoming your adversities and, despite 

being a product of your environment, figuring out who you want to 

become. Identity takes time to discover, and that's something anyone 

can relate to.
