7
Sin City: A Dame to Kill For (2014)

Of course I was going to seize the opportunity to use this amazing
poster of the gorgeous Eva Green for this post. I re-watched the first
Sin City the other day and recalled how much I enjoyed the style and
the different stories and characters portrayed in it. The sequel was a
long time coming but when I initially saw it I thought it was rather
disappointing and far off the standard of the first. I still kind of
feel that way but hey I might as well share why this time.The sequel is shared in the same format as the first with a few
stories, some take place prior to the events of the corresponding
segments in the first film, others afterwards. There are character
changes (most notably a switch of Josh Brolin for Clive Owen) but many
from the first film return. There are also a few steamy addition like
Jun Temple and the very SEXY Eva Green. I wasn't sure I wanted a sequel
because like most sequels, I thought it would pale in comparison to the
original. This is the case with this film.Some of the segments are entertaining. Others not so much. For all the
style and blood and violence this film offers, the stories can't help
but feel dull. The A Dane to Kill For segment was fabulous looking and
so well performed by the sultry Eva Green, but the rest itself was
overlong and dreary. The final segment and showdown between Nancy
Callahan and Roark was also disappointing. The film and segments
definitely could have used more thought out writing.The film is style stylistically excellent. Its a joy to look at on
screen and still has an excellent comic book neo-noir feel to it. The
bloody violence is still on point. The main pitfall is not being able
to avoid to cap on the stories and brilliance in the stories of the
first film. It wasn't without effort, but Robert Rodriguez has still
yet to make a good sequel (at least in my honest opinion). Its still a
decent to good film but it could have been much better.7/10
