8
A Fun Movie That Does Not Deserve the Bad Reviews!

After seeing 'Pixels' several times now thanks to Starz, I can't help
but wonder why the movie was panned so badly by critics and fans alike
during its theatrical run? It's an enjoyable film with funny
characters, tight direction by family film veteran Chris Columbus, a
decent script, and good acting by everyone involved. My only guess is
that the backlash is due to one factor and one factor only - Adam
Sandler and his Happy Madison crew were involved in the project. Not
that Sandler was bad in the film, he was as good as he ever was. I
think it's more of a bias built on a foundation of bad/sub-par movies
that Sandler has released in recent years (i.e. "Grown Up's 2", "Just
Go With It", "Jack and Jill", "That's My Boy" etc.), but I think that
people are letting their resentment of Sandler cloud their judgement on
this film which is a delightful family film rooted in a ton of 80's
arcade game nostalgia. The film and everyone involved don't deserve that and if people would
just ease up on their biases a bit then they'd see that the movie is a
fun fantasy romp with likable characters and an interesting premise
developed from a French short film of the same name. Sure the story is
far-fetched, but it was a fun ride and is a movie that is a great
Saturday night flick with the kids. Not to go into too much detail, but the premise of the story is simple
- It is 1982 and Sam Brenner (Sandler) is a teenage arcade game whiz
who is talked into enter the World Video Game Championships by his
friend Will Cooper (James). During the championships, Sam and Will meet
another contestant, an eccentric young kid named Ludlow Lamansoff
(Gad). In the finals Sam has to face-off with Eddie "Fireblaster" Plant
(Dinklage), another teenage arcade game whiz. Sam eventually loses to
Plant and it haunts him for the rest of his life. In the current day,
Sam has grown up to become a Audio/Video installer and Will Cooper has
become the President of the United States. After a mysterious attack it
is discovered that a video of the 1982 World Championships was sent
into outer space on a probe. The probe was intercepted by an alien
civilization and the games on the video were misinterpreted as a threat
by the aliens who proceed to develop weaponry similar tot he games to
battle Earth in winner-take-all battle. Once it is discovered that the
aliens are using old arcade games to fight us, President Cooper employs
Sam, Ludlow, and Eddie to help use their old-school gamer skills to
team up and stave off the attackers. Again, this a fun movie that really ignites old-school arcade/video
game nostalgia and does a great job of interweaving old games into the
modern time-line of the film. I highly recommend it to anyone.
