8
Great claustrophobic story with fine performances... and a twist

Full disclosure: The year is 2007. A trailer hits cinema screens
advertising a mysterious film named "Cloverfield." Nobody knows what
it's about, except that it's riding on the wave of the found footage
genre, and that it seems to depict a giant monster attack on New York.
Speculation immediately breaks out all over the internet, but nowhere
more fiercely than on the IMDb forums, with many folks being caught up
in the genius viral marketing. I myself was one of those people, along
with my wife. Yes, we met on IMDb's Cloverfield forum. She moved from
the US to Australia a few years after, we got married, and we've lived
together happily ever since.Yes, that is the power of film; it can bring people together in the
most unlikely ways possible.So, it's with some excitement that we were blindsided by the brief and
vague advertising campaign for 10 Cloverfield Lane. Does it have any
connections to the original Cloverfield? What's JJ Abrams playing at
here, exactly? Without giving too much away, it's not a direct sequel,
but rather a sequel in tone. I'm assuming Abrams is going for an
anthology style series here, with each entry being a different story
tied together by their themes and science-fiction setting. It's clearly
a marketing thing, but if that means we'll get more films like this,
I'm certainly okay with it.10 Cloverfield Lane eschews its predecessor's found-footage trappings,
and immerses us in a classic style bottle thriller. The setting is
limited and claustrophobic, and the cast small, but the story and
tension will grab you and not let up until the end. The nature of the
mystery means your opinion will hang very precariously on whether you
like that ending, and I suspect it will be divisive. There's not a
great deal of resolution, and if I'm correct in assuming this will be
an anthology series from now on, I doubt we'll ever get any. But that's
fine, because I don't think the story that would follow the film really
needs to be told.What matters are the performances. John Goodman is the real draw card
here. He gives a stunning turn that is delightful, sympathetic and
absolutely terrifying in equal doses. He's had so many great roles in
the past, but he is unforgettable here. Mary Elizabeth Winstead is also
very likable as the resourceful protagonist. Perhaps a little too
resourceful at times, but for the most part we're with her happily
throughout.The film looks fantastic despite the cramped environs, with great use
of color and shadow and some interesting cinematography. There are some
nice designs and special effects toward the end of the film, even if
they may be considered a little derivative. The score is tense and
effective, and keeps you on the edge of your seat.The script is great with very little flab, and if you like these kinds
of stories which lock characters together in tight, paranoid spaces
then you'll find a lot to enjoy here. Just don't go in expecting
Cloverfield 2, because this is not it. It's its own beast, and has a
brave ending that you'll either love or hate.
