5
Shaky

I'm afraid I didn't enjoy this movie. I thought it started well enough
(with some reservations), but it became disjointed and confusing in the
second half.The Scarlett character was interesting (a teenage frenetic Indiana
Jones on speed), but by the second half it was annoying me that she was
solving these complex puzzles under intense pressure in just seconds. The George character: someone in his 20s who is an Aramaic expert and
can fix medieval church clocks? GMAFB. What really annoyed me was when
-- on the spot and under great pressure -- he translated a difficult to
read text from Aramaic (?) into English, and it came out like a 19th
century poem, rhyming and with words like "twixt". WTF?I thought I was following it all well enough but then the "worst fear
materialised" theme arose. Yikes. That came out of nowhere. Even when
the movie is over, it's not clear why that was added to the film. That
idea has been around an awfully long time, but it was just unexpected
and out of place here.The various alchemical, mythological and religious references were all
a jumbled mess. The sunken cavern, the mass deaths, the gate to hell,
the sound distortion, the treasure room, the philosopher's stone, the
strange chanting women, the monk-like creatures, La Taupe, and so on.
There were quite a few other unanswered points. They were introducing
frightening elements for no reason other than to be frightening.I didn't find it that frightening. I looked at my watch several times
during the movie. I groaned audibly a few times.I didn't really like the shaky cam and the found-footage concept. It's
difficult to maintain that for very long. For those who died far
underground, how did their footage survive? Who was filming them at the
very end? It annoyed me that the characters were vocalizing so much. Yes, I know
we needed that for dramatic reasons. I hated it. People don't do that
in real life.I'd give this movie about a 5 or a 5.5. I've toured the Paris
Catacombs, so I really wanted to like this movie. Sorry.
