10
Well...

Well, reviewing this movie can be quite difficult... How am I supposed
to evaluate it? As a stand-alone movie or as a remake? Because if you
are not falling from, um, Mars you probably know this is a remake of
one of the best Arnold Schwarzenegger movies ever...Hmm... Let's see. How about starting with its' critical acclamation? I
guess you can easily see the movie's rating on Rotten Tomatoes. If not,
I recommend seeing it if you want a good laugh. 30%. That is it.
Needless to say, any sane person would be shocked. Not because the
movie is too good for that rating. You don't need to like the movie...
You don't even need to have seen it to know something is very, very
wrong here... I mean, 'Die Hard 4.0' has 81%... How the hell can the
next movie created by the same writer/director have almost three times
lower rating? I know, writers/directors don't always make movies of
equal quality but the quality NEVER fluctuates that much. A little
research about RT helped me realize a few things.First, critics tend to give sequels of beloved franchises high ratings
- of all movies of that kind that I checked only one - 'Die Hard 3' -
had less than 65%. Everything else - even the abysmal 'Attack of the
Clones' - was rated as "Fresh".Second, critics tend to have a certain bias against sci-fi, fantasy and
horror if they are not directed by a supposedly great name like Ridley
Scott or Nolan. 'Willow' - a fantasy genre icon - has 49%. Go figure.Third, Rotten Tomatoes is not even a good representative of critics'
opinion... I mean, does anybody believe the critics considered the last
Indiana Jones movie better than 'Forrest Gump'? Check their awards and
you will see. And yet.. Go and see. So much for RT being a good
source...---I wasted your time with this but it just had to be told. Now, about the
movie itself. Well, it IS good. It has its' shortcomings, mainly in the
writing department, but it stands on its' own.As a stand alone movie... Well, after 'Prometheus' disappointed
everyone, TR2012 is probably the best sci-fi movie of the year. It has
a great story, great chemistry between the actors and the writing is at
least acceptable although sometimes flawed. The acting was good from
all actors. The only slight disappointment comes from Bill Nighy - he
delivered a fine performance but he looked like he spent no more than
an hour on the movie set. However his character, although important,
has no more than 10 minutes of screen time so... Action-wise this movie
is EXACTLY what 'Die Hard 4.0' was - relatively bloodless, wonderfully
captured and complicatedly choreographed. Smooth camera movement, NO
shaky cam, extremely long cuts - look at the first fight in the trailer
and you will get it. And, believe me, the action looks better than that
on the big screen. What is also worth mentioning is the fact that the
movie feels more real than most sci-fi blockbusters recently, mostly
because the use of CGI and green screens is as minimal as possible. I
don't know why so many people think it is loaded with CGI. It isn't,
trust me.Overall, as a stand alone movie the new 'Total Recall' works, and it
works well.As a remake... Well, it did keep the basic story but that is it.
Verhoeven's humor is gone. The blood is gone. The gore is gone. Mars is
gone. Mutants are gone. Richter is gone. Arnold and his one-liners are
gone. Although the story is basically the same, the new movie is
completely different from the original. There are a few nods to the
1990 movie but that is it. This is a new movie.If you want to see the old one, see it. It is great. If you haven't
seen it you will love it. If you already have seen it... you will love
it again.The new movie is different. If you see it with an open mind you will
probably like it at least a bit. Give it a chance. It is a good movie
and a great entertainment.
