9
Good, harmless Stooge fun. A faithful tribute.

As a big fan of The Three Stooges since childhood, I wasn't sure how to
feel about this movie. Was Hollywood selling out a beloved franchise,
or was it actually attempting a faithful, big- screen tribute to one of
the greatest comedy acts of all time?This film was everything I had hoped it'd be and more. When we get to
see the Moe, Larry and Curly that we all know and love, it feels like
running into a couple of old friends that we haven't seen in awhile.
While the appearances aren't dead on with the original Stooges, Sasso,
Hayes and Diamantopolous manage to capture the very essence and
mannerisms behind the original Stooges.There's some very interesting character development for the character
of Moe, something I didn't expect to find in this film. There's also an
emotional depth and a light-hearted silliness that are present
throughout the film, something which made the originals so great.
There's a few questionable scenes here or there that don't quite feel
like they fit in the film, but somehow we get the impression that if
the Stooges could have gotten away with it back then they would have
done the exact same thing.The eye pokes, slaps and head bonks are all the same as you remember.
They look authentic and when they are mixed with the original sound
effects, you'll find yourself laughing like you were a 10 year old kid
again. The Farrelly's obviously put a lot of work and research into the
film, and if their goal was to make a film that the original Stooges
would be proud of and that would inspire a new generation of Stooge
lovers, then they have succeeded.Don't go into this film expecting it to top the originals. No one will
ever come close to them, and the makers of this film understand that.
Moe Howard was a man who always believed that the show must go on. When
Curly was replaced by Shemp, naturally the shorts wouldn't be as good
as the Curly ones, but they were still great on their own levels. The
same thing could be said when Shemp was replaced by Joe Besser, and
eventually Joe DeRita. Moe knew that the golden age of the Stooges was
the Moe, Larry and Curly era. That didn't stop him though, he always
continued the act, because he knew people needed the Stooges. Don't
think of this film as an attempt to top the originals, that's just
never gonna happen. Look at it was a faithful love letter to the boys,
and sit back relax and get ready to laugh like a kid again.
