7
Gore galore, but a slavish re-tread of the Deodato/Lenzi films. Not that that's entirely bad thing . . .

NOTE: slight spoiler in the second last paragraph, duly noted below.I've always found Eli Roth's films to be mixed bags. GREEN INFERNO is
by far his best picture, but as in most of his other films his
limitations as a dialogue writer are foregrounded too often, albeit
thankfully to nowhere near the extent they were in the RZA's execrable
vanity project MAN WITH THE IRON FISTS. His character development
skills, however, show unexpected signs of refinement during his six
year absence from the director's seat.In particular, Roth's take on environmental activists -- all of the
main characters in Green Inferno are self-serious, latte-drinking "save
the rain forest" university types who infiltrate a clear-cutting
operation deep in the Amazon jungle and chain themselves to the logging
machinery in order to protest "corporate greed" via satellite linkup
with their iPhones -- cuts effectively deep for a filmmaker not usually
given to social criticism.Most criticism that could be leveled at the film's dialogue and
subtext, however, is irrelevant since the drawing card for horror buffs
will without question be the exotic, "dangerous" location (which
promises enough stories for multiple gory sequels, according to Roth),
and the copious scenes of torture, dismemberment and cannibalism that
ensue when the protagonists' plane -- possibly due to sabotage, it's
later implied -- crashes into the forest on the return trip home (the
opening protest mission is entirely self-contained, and actually
successful, or so it seems at first). Enter the natives -- reportedly
played by an authentic Chilean tribe, albeit one not prone to dining on
human flesh -- and the feasting begins.The grisly makeup effects are by a team led by legends Gregory Nicotero
and Howard Berger (who aren't credited at IMDb as of this writing, but
ARE listed in the opening credits of the film), and they certainly
deliver, particularly the squishy, screaming dismemberment that sets
the ball rolling. As far as cannibal movies go, the special effects in
GREEN INFERNO are certainly the most elaborate to date, but considering
the most notable (and notorious) run of this genre happened thirty
years ago, that probably goes without saying.Manuel Riveiro's full orchestral lends the film an appropriately
ominous sense of portent -- especially when it accompanies sweeping
flyover shots of dense jungle -- and a feeling of scope and import that
belies the fact that GREEN INFERNO is ultimately a throwback/valentine
to the works of Ruggerio Deodato and Umberto Lenzi, almost to the
letter, in particular Lenzi's CANNIBAL FEROX (aka MAKE THEM DIE
SLOWLY). Speaking of those two, Roth's film is actually dedicated to
Deodato, and the credits list most if not all of the films in this
sub-genre that one should probably see or at least be aware of going in
or coming out. At TIFF, Roth claimed this list (along with numerous
tweet handles in the final roll) was simply a great way to insert some
marketing magic directly into the film itself, but one could also read
it as a preemptive strike against critics (and fans) who might realize
just how shamelessly he treads familiar ground with this show and
attempt to dock points for it. Mind you, if enough future audience
members haven't seen any of the late 70's or early 80's Italian
cannibal pictures -- and let's face it, a whole new generation or two
probably doesn't even know they exist -- that might bode well for this
picture, especially via DVD/streaming, as there's nothing like
experiencing a dedicated cannibal movie for the first time, and with a
strong stomach. It's also now very likely that some of GREEN INFERNO's
predecessors will get fancy new Blu-ray re-releases thanks to the
existence of this film. So there's that.As for gratuitous skin -- always a component of the originals -- Roth
treats us to more of Daryl Sabara's junk than most viewers probably
ever thought they'd care to see, for what that's worth, while for the
likely-to-be-predominantly-male demographic of this type of picture,
Loranna Izzo spends a fair portion of the final act bounding through
the rain forest in a skimpy little muslin jungle bikini (and -- SPOILER
AHEAD!! -- appears oh-so-briefly topless during her FGM "preparation"
scene), while she and a couple of the other actresses have fleeting
moments sans pants getting "examined" by the tribe's cataracted,
jaundice-skinned resident witch doctor and gynecologist. Such as it is,
the skin quotient -- when it's not being ripped and chopped apart, and
cooked and eaten, at least -- is more or less on par with the original
films. Thankfully Roth and company avoid scenes of animal cruelty (even
faked) altogether, so those who uncomfortably recall such
unpleasantness from the Deodato/Lenzi films can rest easy; it's only
the humans who get eaten this time out.Finally, a dangling subplot involving one character will undoubtedly
serve as the foundation of the just-announced sequel, which reportedly
begins production almost immediately. To be honest, I'd almost
forgotten about this character until the drive home, which was probably
the point all along.
