9
Tom Hardy Shines and James Gandolfini Leaves Us With a Memorable Performance.

"I just tend the bar," Bob Saginowski innocently states in this under-
the-radar gem of a film. Tom Hardy plays Bob, a quiet, reserved
bartender at his cousin Marv's bar. Cousin Marv is played by James
Gandolfini in his final role. The Drop is getting a lot of attention
because of Gandolfini, who gives another memorable performance, but The
Drop is much more than an opportunity to see one our generation's
greatest actors one last time, it's one of the best films of the year. In The Drop, Marv owns a local neighborhood bar that also happens to be
a "drop bar", which means the bar essentially collects money from
illegal betting and god knows what else and then delivers it to the
local Chechen gang. Gandolfini plays Marv as a Tony Soprano that never
was. A guy that tried to get into the game, but couldn't really cut it
when the big guys came into town. Those "big guys" are the Chechen mob
that have taken over Marv's bar. It's his bar in name only and he's
relegated to serving drinks and cleaning up spills. Gandolfini plays
Marv as a bitter, beaten down man. It's vintage Gandolfini and a
perfect way to end a career that was cut way too short.As one actor takes his final bow, it's another actor who officially
arrives. The Drop is clearly Tom Hardy's film. Granted, Hardy certainly
hasn't come out of no where. He burst on the mainstream scene with
Inception and should have become a household name after his performance
as Bane in The Dark Knight Rises. He didn't, and I'm not really sure
why. He seemingly has everything you'd want in a leading man.Hardy's performance in The Drop should finally change that. I know it's
early, but it's Oscar worthy. Hardy plays Bob with such an authentic
nature that it's downright astounding. He really inhabits this
character. Bob seems to take everything in stride, nothing seems to
bother him. When he is confronted by the Chechen mobsters, he keeps his
head down and chooses every word with precision, knowing that his life
depends on it. Bob is non-threatening and unassuming and almost comes
off as simple-minded, but as the film progresses, it's clear something
is brewing beneath the surface. Bob is an example of a guy who is a
product of his environment. He's a good man that doesn't really have a
choice in life. He either adapts to survive or dies.Bob also has a big heart as is evidenced when he rescues a puppy that
has been beaten and literally thrown in the trash. This is where he
meets Nadia, played by Noomi Rapace (Prometheus). Nadia is also
reserved and seems wounded in some way. It makes sense that The Drop is
written by Dennis Lahane (writer of Mystic River, Gone Baby Gone and
Shutter Island) who adapted the film from his short story "Animal
Rescue," a title with more than one meaning. Not only does Bob rescue
an injured dog, but both he and Nadia seem like animals that need
rescuing in one way or another.The Drop is the kind of film that Hollywood just doesn't make anymore.
It really does feel like it was ripped right out of the 80's. It has a
slow, deliberate pace that perfectly builds suspense. The Drop is a
character driven film that constructs each scene with great dialogue
and fantastic acting. The director allows his characters to inhabit the
world they live in. It's the wardrobe and the set design that really
help bring everything together and add to the authenticity of the film.
Everything seems organic and not like it's part of a movie set.The Drop is a film lovers film. It has everything you could possibly
ask for: a top notch cast, great direction, dialogue, set design,
cinematography, and an understated score. You name it, and The Drop has
it. It's easily one of my favorite films of the year. We need more
films like The Drop. Go see it.
