1
One Big Joke

This movie was a failure on many levels. There was a serious lack of
story, the humor was very forced in an overabundance of one-liners, bad
CGI in some places, and a very under-developed Villain. The movie
focused a lot on the characters in the movie and developing them, but
not even that much. We get a few tidbits about each, except Thor,
Stark/Ironman, and Hulk/Banner. Thor was hardly in the movie, only
shown on screen for a few minutes after leaving the team to basically
setup the next movie and where the story is going (Infinity War), but
is glossed over so quickly most people won't catch it, especially those
who have no idea about story arcs in the comics. Ultron's reveal was
absolutely perfect, it set him up as an intimidating and powerful
villain, then when he gets his own mechanical body, he turns into a
comedy act and does not look real because the CGI metal looks terrible,
along with the stupid moving mouth when he speaks.Every character in the movie was trying to be a comedian in the movie.
The only moment that felt serious or dire was the reveal of Ultron (and
then turned into a joke later). The ending of course has a big battle
with all the Ultron bots, but seriously, why do they even have Thor in
the close quarters fighting with them? His lightning could have fried
most of them, then they have Thor not fight Ultron back just so Vision
(Which they never called him by his name) could be seen holding Thor's
hammer again and make a stupid remark about the balance of the hammer.Stark/Ironman is basically having amnesia forgetting the events of
Ironman 3. And then turns into a "mad scientist" with Banner to create
Ultron, totally against his way of thinking after the events of Ironman
3. Ironman also does everything he knows the team will get mad at him
for doing, but does it anyway without consulting them.Black Widow is basically the Avengers "Mattress" in that she is now
flirting with a 4th Avenger (1st was Ironman in Ironman 2, 2nd was
Hawkeye in The Avengers, 3rd was Captain America in The Winter Soldier)
and now the 4th is Bruce Banner/Hulk. She is a better character than
that, but all she gets is flirting with everyone.We are introduced to 2 other characters dubbed "The Twins" though they
never give them names. Probably because of Fox owns the rights to
X-Men, but their names are Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver. Quicksilver
dies, and of course, says a one-liner, and yet we feel nothing for his
death as we never knew him......he is a 1- dimensional character. At
least in X-Men Day of Future Past we get to know Quicksilver in there,
and his special effects were a hell of a lot better.This film was a catastrophe, and should not be praised in anyway.
