4
A movie that could have easily been great.

You will see many reviews by movie critics that are too negative and
many reviews by fanboys that are too positive. I'll try to look at this
movie from the point of view of a long time Warcraft player as well as
someone who might be unfamiliar with the source material.The movie is edited badly, there is no real sense of time lapse in it.
The characters are all over the world within minutes between each scene
and it causes an unrealistic presentation of how large the world
actually is and how fast these characters can travel from one place to
another. While the movie wanted to keep the focus on many different
characters at the same time, they could have made a slower and more
realistic approach where some events could have simply been mentioned
rather than presented.The CGI is great, however it only looks great next to other CGI.
Inexperienced viewers won't notice this much, however the CGI
definitely stands out when real objects come into scene such as the
actors. For the most part they've done a great job at making it all
look as real as possible, but towards the end when there is a orc vs
human battle in front of the dark portal, it got a bit sloppy.The acting appeared to be "okay" for the most part, however the person
who plays Khadgar definitely had some issues. He never seems quiet into
it and comes across pretty self aware.The aesthetic of the movie tries to copy the game nearly 100%. It's
subjective whether this is a good or a bad thing, but I did not think
it was a good decision. In a movie, the ridiculous and silly objects
such as house sized anvils and shoulder armor twice as big as the
wearers head looks the way they should, very very silly. They might
have kept the style yet tried to make it seem a bit more grounded to
decrease the silliness of it all. Though this is subjective.The fight between Medivh and the others are, to put it simply, clumsy.
It was sloppy and wasn't the fight the story deserved. With Khadgar and
Lothar playing around with the silly clay monster and Medivh just
walking around chanting. It might have been best for them to stick to
the actual story where Medivh puts an aging curse on Khadgar and gets
stabbed through the chest, causing the demon Sargeras to slowly emerge
and get it's head chopped off. It is simpler and more direct. The way
it is in the movie was simply too silly.Generally speaking, the best parts of the movie were those of the
interactions within the Orc society. The drama was there, the struggle
was there and most of the development was there also. The same care was
absent from the human side of the story, having a very forced and
unemotional death scene for Lothar's son as well as an awkwardly
revealed secret of Medivh's possession. No matter my opinion, it appears the movie is set to have a sequel, and
hopefully they will address most of these issues. Personally I would
try to reduce the silliness aspect of the aesthetic and try to have
there be more focus on the story so the characters don't just jump
around so much. Also there should be more explanation for those who are
not familiar with the story. A movie can't survive only with fan
service.
