4
Bells and Whistles but Nothing to Care About

There is a very simple way to put this: I didn't believe it. That sums
up the movie for me. Yes, there is all the razzle dazzle you can
imagine. But there is nothing at the heart of this film. In Silver
Linings Playbook and The Fighter, for example, I was an instant
believer, I bought in immediately, and loved every second of the
ensuing ride. Maybe I could tell from the trailers that we were going
back to LaLa land territory. Schmooze, slick, and schtick. That's what
this movie is. I was literally falling asleep. Because I never cared
for a second, because I knew it was fake, the world never invited me
in. Perhaps opening the movie with the old 'start halfway through the
movie and then go back and show how they got to that point' tactic
failed at bringing me believably along. I don't know, and it doesn't
matter. The bottom line is I feel like I was never invited into a
believable world. I guess it's just not that kind of movie. I had come
to have high expectations after Russell's last two outings, which were
basically celluloid cocaine. In those two, I was emotionally invested,
in the reality, of how believable it was, and then everything else
clicked. The snappy dialogue, the electric energy, the rockin'
soundtrack, etc., all supported and enhanced the story, because there
was a foundation laid. The believability comes from the characters and
their relationships, set up by a story, or plot. Apparently Mr. Russell
has lost the need for a plot as he is purported to have said when asked
by Christian Bale whether the impromptu dialogue would change the
story. While having a passion for characters and relationships is
great, the story is an equally important element, and one that is lost
here. This movie is thematically all over the place. There is little
gravitas or gravity that keeps pulling us in its direction. We wander
aimlessly through it, like a pimply teenager, awestruck at the glamour,
not noticing that nothing is actually happening. This movie is all
fluff. My favorite W.H. Auden quote also sums it up: "What the mass
media offers is not popular art but entertainment, which is intended to
be consumed like food, forgotten, and replaced by a new dish." The same
could not be said about The Fighter and Silver Linings Playbook. So far
2013 is a bad vintage.
