7
Where's Hansel & Gretel when you need them?...

I admit I hadn't really known much about this movie (such as what the
story was about and who was playing who) until recently. Though I did
find out before going to see it and, well, I think you'd be better off
going into this film knowing very little about it. I've seen numerous
complaints about the 'spoiling' of Theodora (Mila Kunis) turning out to
be The Wicked Witch of the West, but in hindsight, the signs are all
clearly there. Her big floppy hat, for one (which deserves its own
credit). Then there's her voice, that you just KNOW is going to turn
into that classic evil witchy cackle - which she does plenty of.
Lastly, her conversation with her sister, Evanora (Rachel Weisz - who
deserves all the praise she's getting, as she really *does* have fun in
the role and is one of the stand-out performances), is about as subtle
as a train wreck. Theodora insists she's NOT 'wicked' (a word you'll
hear a plenty of throughout the film) and then promptly tosses a
fireball. What ultimately turns her evil? Thinking she was the 'one and
only' witch for Oz (James Franco), then believing she's but *one* of
his 'one and only's, thanks to her sister's deceit. Yes, it's one of
THOSE origin stories. I'd actually originally thought Weisz would turn
into the Wicked Witch, back when all I knew about the movie was who was
starring in it. Then once I read a bit of info about the film, it
became clear this wasn't the case. Maybe the movie would have benefited
from her being cast in the role? Kunis does a good witch cackle, and
certainly looks the part - all greened up, pointy hat and broom-flying
- but ultimately, she doesn't really convey that
much...well..'wickedness'. Probably the nicest/most subtle touch was
her streaking tears burning her cheeks.Those hoping for an origin story that has lots of depth and substance
may find this a bit disappointing. Theodora meets Oz when he
crash-lands in the wondrous realm of Oz, and within a very brief amount
of time, is already infatuated with him (of course, she believes he
really *is* a wizard with actual powers, so that probably has something
to do with it). I didn't mind Mila when she was skipping merrily along
The Yellow Brick Road, despite her naivety, but there just wasn't
enough time spent developing a real solid attachment between her and Oz
before she descends into villain territory. Given the overlong runtime
of the film, more of it should have been devoted to their burgeoning
relationship, I think. It's hard to believe Weisz wasn't Raimi's/the
studio's first choice for Evanora, as she plays her perfectly. She and
Glinda (Michelle Williams) have quite the witch battle at the end. The
real crime here is Evanora's punishment she suffers at the end - as
robbing Rachel Weisz of her beauty is just not on! I guess it does set
her up to become a future pancake underneath Dorothy's house, though.
Williams as Glinda is kind and sweet and floats around in a bubble
(though that's apparently just for show) and has a crown that never
falls off. She can also take a hit or two and manage to bounce back
after Evanora goes all Emperor on her arse, zapping her with green
lightning shooting from her fingertips. Williams' Glinda is fine, if
not particularly interesting/memorable. The last we see of the two
Wicked Witches does suggest that this may be set-up for sequels to
come...or, if not, then it serves as simply a prequel to the two
already existing 'Oz' films.Kunis's Theordora utters the words 'how predictable' at one point in
the film, and that really could apply to the movie as a whole. It's not
exactly a story you haven't seen before. There's Oz, who pretends to be
a great magician, but really just uses cheap tricks. When he comes to
the Land of Oz, he is of course mistaken for a real wizard. There's the
expected self-doubt, then the bit where he makes everyone thinks he
really is a coward, only to reveal himself to have turned noble in the
end and save everyone. Nothing new to see here. Franco is adequate in
the role, though his grin really makes you want to punch him in the
face at times. He's also somewhat overshadowed by the witches. At least
Oz's career in illusion comes in handy at the end - even if it's a bit
hard to believe that such powerful witches are so easily fooled and
give in so quickly. Zach Braff is Oz's offsider, both in Kansas and in
the Land Of Oz - although, in the latter he is a flying monkey valet.
He is intended as the film's main source of comic relief, and he has
his moments. While there is some humour in the film, it's not exactly
big on laughs. Joey King, meanwhile, does tug at the heartstrings as a
girl in a wheelchair who asks Oz to make her walk, when she's seeing
his performance. She also provides the voice for China Girl - a
wonderfully brought to life creation...that sadly verges on the
irritating, personality-wise. So much damn crying! And that must have
been some fast-acting glue Oz had on him that he used to put her back
together.Starting the film in black & white and a vintage aspect ratio does help
set the tone of the film, plus it creates that nostalgic feel for the
classic original film. The visuals are quite stunning, but after a
while the novelty wears off. Visuals can't make up for a lacklustre
story, and sadly, despite the direction/look of the film and some good
performances, Oz the Great and Powerful just doesn't quite live up to
its title. In the end, it's good...but not great.
