10
Incredible Personality Treatise Of A Complex Individual

A number of years ago, I watched "The Social Network" and was
completely transfixed. I loved how that movie was able to tell a
specific story (the origins of Facebook) and also serve as an excellent
character study. When I heard that the same screenwriter (Aaron Sorkin)
that did "Social Network" was on this project, I was obviously
intrigued. The result is a movie just as good at examining real life
events through the prism of drama and time (or hindsight). Perhaps even
better, in certain ways, as it had less historical material to focus on
and thus was truly about the man at its center.For a basic plot summary, "Steve Jobs" tells the story of its title
character (played by Michale Fassbender) through three different
product launches at three distinct times in his life. In each instance,
Jobs verbally spars with personal assistant Joanna Hoffman (Kate
Winslet) and must deal with a family situation involving a child who he
doesn't want to accept is his (Makenzie Moss, Ripley Sobo, & Perla
Haney-Jardine) and an estranged wife (Katherine Waterston) who wants
little to do with him but is sure glad to accept his bank deposits.
Also explored are Jobs' relationships with fellow tech gurus such as
Steve Wozniak (Seth Rogan), John Sculley (Jeff Daniels), and Andy
Hertzfield (Michael Stuhlbarg).As we all know, the real-life Steve Jobs was a very complicated,
unique, and even polarizing figure (the guy once got kicked out of his
own company, for crying out loud!). There is no doubt that he was quite
a revolutionary thinker...yet pretty much everyone who worked for the
man intimates that he was a class-A jerk with a slave-driver mentality.
That is the main focus of this film, and it provides some of the
movie's best moments. The film-makers really tackle the question of
"did Jobs have to be such a jerk in order to do what he did?". That is
fascinating discussion topic, and one that Sorkin and director Danny
Boyle cut to the heart of with "Steve Jobs".This is very much a "talking film", so if you are looking for a lot of
action, you might have to temper expectations. To be honest, this is
almost a completely dialogue-driven film. Fortunately, Sorkin has
mastered the art of dialogue and uses it to full advantage here. There
isn't a wasted scene, with every conversation a chance to dig a little
deeper into the heart of Jobs the business man, Jobs the family man,
and Jobs the individual. Though difficult to do right (as dialogue-
heavy films can be disasters if not handled with a sense of energy),
I'm a huge fan of this style of film-making. I know that "show, not
tell" is usually the mantra of Hollywood, but when dealing with
personalities I think that can be deviated from a bit.To pull off all that dialogue, there needs to be great actors up on the
screen, and "Steve Jobs" has that all-around. Fassbender is entrancing
as Jobs, while the entire supporting cast is also excellent. Especially
on-point is Rogen as Wozniak. His scenes with Fassbender are probably
the best of the entire film, cutting to the heart of who Jobs was as an
individual.This movie opened to bad press and made little money (at least
initially), and I think I know why: you can't go in expecting a
cradle-to-grave biography. That's not what this movie sets out to do.
It is a character study, plain and simple, just like "The Social
Network" was really as much a character study of Mark Zuckerberg as it
was a "movie about Facebook". "Steve Jobs" leans even more in that
direction, as there is no "one specific event" that it can lean on.
Instead, each behind-the-scenes of the product launch is intended to
give glimpses into how Jobs handles different portions of his life in
order to get to know him better. Obviously, some of the key details are
filled in through monologues and flashbacks, but this is by now means
anywhere near a comprehensive biography. That wasn't the point.Overall, I consider "Steve Jobs" to be one of the most
thought-provoking films I've seen at the cinema in quite some time. It
can play to the nostalgia of Apple users, tech nostalgia in general,
and tell a complex personality tale about one of the great technology
icons of all-time. The themes espoused in the film will be kicking
around in your noggin long after the lights cycle up and the credits
roll.
