8
Old-fashioned scares, new methods

I suppose I find the concept of "internet horror" or "cyber thrillers"
more intriguing than a large number of my peers do. I say this because
the latest entry in the genre, "Unfriended," has been met with a great
deal of scrutiny before its release like few horror films I can recall.
Immediately after seeing the trailer, I was mesmerized by the shooting
style, as I am with a great deal of these kind of internet-based horror
films, like "The Den" and "Untraceable." "Unfriended" is a stylish,
taut thriller that uses incredible realism to create its online world,
and predicates itself off of continuous mystery while simultaneously
leaving you within arm's reach of everything happening.With this process, the audience becomes voyeurs into the lives of six
souls, all of whom are active in a Skype videochat. We are focused on
Blaire's (Shelley Hennig) laptop screen, who was a close friend of a
girl named Laura Barns, who killed herself due to persistent harassment
and cyberbullying she received from a video taken of her a year ago.
While Blaire misses Laura, her other friends - her boyfriend Mitch
(Moses Jacob Storm), her girlfriends Jess and Val (Renee Olstead and
Courtney Halverson), the smartass Ken (Jacob Wysocki), and equal
smartass Adam (Will Peltz) - who are in the Skype chat with her do not
recall her with such fondness.The group notices an unknown person lurking in their chat - a user
named "billie227," whom they cannot hang up on in the chat nor get away
from. The user, who turns out to be Laura Barn's old Skype account,
doesn't have a microphone or a camera and communicates through text in
the Skype chatroom, and begins to harass and threaten the group of
friends. The user starts by posting incriminating videos and photos to
the Facebook accounts of the friends before gradually turning more and
more sinister over time, getting them to turn against their own peers
with the secrets and provocative information it releases and taking a
fatal twist."Unfriended" builds with a terrific sense of urgency, never allowing
things to happen too quickly and allows the characters to pragmatically
go about the situation by doing things like messaging others in
secrecy, using other online links to try and discover what's going on,
and so forth. The realism in the characters' behavior on the internet
and the actual operation of the internet is some of the strongest I've
seen in this genre. Director Levan Gabriadze nails the glitches, lags,
and common social patterns of virtual communication here, right down to
the way characters type out messages before erasing them in
frustration.Nuances lurk everywhere in "Unfriended," be it in the aforementioned
aesthetic sense or the personal sense (cast and crew can be seen as
Facebook friends, Blaire's computer always has a "Teen Wolf" tab open,
as Hennig is in that particular program, etc), all of which effective
in the way that they add to the realism of the picture. Even the
actors, while playing contemptible people in general, get their
character traits right and wind up being intensely watchable. Probably
the most charming is Ken, played by Jacob Wysocki, who is finally
playing a comedic character and clearly having fun with the persona.
After starring in two films boasting a sulky, morose protagonist, one
can only hope this propels him to even more great projects in his
career.Above all, "Unfriended" is frightening because with the internet brings
limitless possibilities, especially in the way this particular films
blends the online interaction element with the supernatural but not in
the cliché-ridden, terribly predictable way we've seen it done before.
"Unfriended" doesn't pull punches, for it wants its suspense to build
to something in the long run and jump scares aren't the payoff it's
looking for. It's too savvy for that, especially after conjuring up
such perfect atmosphere. It was written, directed, and made by people
who get the internet, understand the genre and the minefield of
pitfalls they're working on, and respect it and its audience enough to
deliver old-fashioned scares in a relatively new manner.
