9
A capsule of a great president and a director's increasing maturity

Daniel Day-Lewis is something of an unsung miracle; the man will come
out of nowhere, select an unlikely role, knock it out of the park, then
quietly crawl back into the ground for the next three or four years
before repeating the same process. He is an underrated talent most
likely due to his lack of a prolific career, somewhat like director
Terrence Malick. Here, Day-Lewis teams up with one of Hollywood's most
prolific men, Steven Spielberg, who is coming off a stellar 2011, where
he produced both Super 8 and Transformers: Dark of the Moon and
directed both The Adventures of Tintin and War Horse, two acclaimed
pictures.Spielberg mans the camera in one of the most exhilarating biopics in
recent memory. Lincoln is a stunning humanization and coloring-book job
of American politics, shedding a light on the skepticism and grayness
of the government during that time. To simplify the story, Spielberg
chooses to focus on the political interworkings of our sixteenth
president's cabinet rather than the Civil War itself. It shows the
long, grating process of amending the United States' constitution for
the thirteenth time to abolish slavery and grant African Americans
equality, and how that more than one men stood at the center of the
action when the process was taking place, along with how he was
incorruptibly confident that ending the practice of slavery will lead
to ending the war.While titled "Lincoln," we get several other characters with a fairly
surprising amount of screen time. Among them are Joseph Gordon-Levitt
playing Lincoln's oldest son, Robert Todd, Tommy Lee Jones playing
Thaddeus Stevens, the fiery Radical Republican leader who is strongly
passionate about abolitionism, Sally Field as the president's devoted
wife, Mary Todd, and David Strathairn as William Seward, the secretary
of state. It could also be said that at times Abraham Lincoln is not
writer Tony Kushner's (who also penned Spielberg's Munich, unseen by
me) prime focus, as much as it is the backroom deals of the 1865
congress and the political battles and obstacles each member faced when
their morals and ideology came forth in abolishing one of the most
inhumane acts ever allowed in the United States.Daniel Day-Lewis is mesmerizing here, never overplaying or
shortchanging Lincoln in one of his most reliable roles yet. Here, he
seems much more cinematic than his previous works, and seems to be
smitten with Lincoln's character and persona as he embodies him for
one-hundred and fifty minutes. His voice is not stereotypically deep
manly, and guttural as many other works have made him out to be, but
reedy and poetically satisfying, boasting not much more than historical
records claim. Day-Lewis is only assisted by the wealth of invaluable
talent he is surrounded by, yet some of the most powerful work of his
career comes out when Lincoln is reciting stories or parables to a
group of bewildered, yet fascinated individuals who recall and cherish
every word the man is saying.One requirement upon seeing Lincoln is you must commit to two and a
half hours of dialog and monologues from several characters about
several different topics. One challenge faced by the filmmakers that is
inherently difficult to overcome is the wealth of information, history,
and knowledge of the period, and we see the struggle they face at
attempting to sum it all up into a structured, disciplined film. I
could've seen this as an HBO ten to fifteen part miniseries,
elaborating on smaller characters, extending the work of the amendment,
and even showing Lincoln's impact on a still vulnerable United States.
But such an action may have proved too heavy for even history buffs.With this film, there is a lot going on in terms of subtleties and
there is a plethora of weight that rests on the film's script that at
times makes this a challenging picture to watch. I'm reminded of my
recent adventure to see the Wachowski's Cloud Atlas, and how that film
was beautiful, striking, and increasingly ambitious, but also maddening
and occasionally tedious. I wouldn't so much call Lincoln maddening or
tedious as I would challenging to stay in-tuned with.But that does not mean I couldn't see thousands of people emerging
pleased and delighted with the film they just saw. This is a richly
detailed and unsurprisingly intellectual picture that will go down as
one of the greatest cinematic endeavors to ever focus on American
politics. Kushner and Spielberg have gone on to make quite possibly the
best film we'll ever see about the passage of an amendment through
congress and the exhausting compromises and deals that go along with
the process. Finally, I must note Spielberg's top notch use of
subversive elements from Lincoln's voice, to the focus of the picture
from a narrative point of view, to the inevitable conclusion that still
leaves us impacted and shaken.Starring: Daniel Day-Lewis, Sally Field, David Strathairn, Joseph
Gordon-Levitt, James Spader, Hal Holbrook, Tommy Lee Jones, and Jackie
Earle Haley. Directed by: Steven Spielberg.
