7
Has touches that had to be influenced by producer Sam Raimi.

'THE POSSESSION': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five)A Jewish exorcism film for a change! This one revolves around Jewish
folklore of the Dybbuk Box (which began in the 1920s), a box used to
contain an evil Jewish demon. A father and his two daughters buy the
box at a garage sale and one of the young girls becomes possessed by
the demon inside it. The film was produced by Sam Raimi (and released
through his horror studio 'Ghost House Pictures') and directed by Ole
Bornedal. It was written by Juliet Snowden and Stiles White (who also
co-wrote the Sam Raimi produced horror film 'BOOGEYMAN' and the Nicolas
Cage thriller 'KNOWING') and stars Jeffrey Dean Morgan and Kyra
Sedgwick. The movie plays out like a pretty routine possession movie
but it does have some pretty nice scares in it and the dybbuk storyline
is interesting. The film is based on an article by LA Times reporter Leslie Gornstein,
called 'Jinx in A Box', about the history of the Dybbuk Box which was
brought to America by a Holocaust survivor and passed around to various
people who all reported horrific experiences from it. In the film a
young girl named Em (Natasha Calis) finds the box at a garage sale and
asks her dad, Clyde (Morgan), to buy it for her. Clyde was recently
divorced from his wife, Stephanie (Sedgwick), and has his two
daughters, Em and Hannah (Madison Davenport), for the weekend. Em takes
the box home and opens it and soon strange occurrences begin happening.
This causes further conflict between Clyde and Stephanie as Clyde is
blamed for his daughter's strange behavior. Clyde soon discovers Em's
possessed and learns the history of the box. He then travels to a local
Hasidic community for help and enlists the assistance of a young jew
named Tzadok (Matisyahu), who is able to perform exorcisms.Bornedal also directed (as well as wrote) the Danish thriller
'NIGHTWATCH' and it's 1997 American remake of the same name (although
Steven Soderbergh rewrote that screenplay) starring Ewan McGregor. He
also directed and co-wrote the 2007 Danish horror film 'THE SUBSTITUTE'
(also released by Ghost House Pictures, in America). I'm not familiar
with his work but I really liked his directing on this film. It has
that classic campy horror feel to it, with touches that had to be
influenced by Sam Raimi (as it often feels like one of his films). The
movie is often funny, in seemingly unintentional ways, but it's never
too over the top. The comedy never takes you out of the creepy mood of
the film and although the script is routine the film is always
intriguing, thanks to the excellent filmmaking. Morgan is good in the
lead and Natasha Calis is also impressive in the pivotal creepy role.
To many it might just seem like a bad horror film but if you're a fan
of the genre you'll probably get a big kick out of it's style and the
enormous fun it has with the material.Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Hh6duVlIQk
