7
Cheryl's emotions are lost in a wild and desolate space

An arduous journey across America on the Pacific Crest Trail, Cheryl
Strayed tests her tenacity to continue forward till the end. There's
very little else to the story, which makes this film really powerful.
With not much else other than a tedious walk and a vampish past the
story bobs back and forth between the present and the past revealing
how Cheryl finds herself in such a circumstance and why she cant stop
until she is finished. At first Cheryl seems like a woman unable to let go of her now
ex-husband, beginning a journey with more baggage than is necessary. It
might almost be easy to throw this story into the bin of sappy
chick-flicks when that inability to get closure on a relationships end
is actually fronting as more of an act of remorse and regret. She
messed up. And there is no way to repair the damage without an ugly
scar.The further she goes the more she dives into the series of events that
lead her to such a devastating circumstance of sex and drugs. The loss
of her mother is far too much for her to feel. The depth of such pain
can sometimes strip a human being from feeling anything at all. The
tears flow from her face but those tears are not falling for grief,
they drop from the overwhelming numbing the death has caused. Cheryl's emotions are lost in a wild and desolate space that is pain
and grief, which is so perfectly mirrored with the vast, open landscape
she is now physically wondering through. And both her emotions and the
land are the same: it wont change immediately and things will be tough
but if one keeps going forward one will come out of it. And better for
it. Cheryl just needed that physical aspect to make the connection with
her emotions. The self-loathing and destructive life she was living was
the equivalence of her just lying down on the sandy path and dying
right there. It's a fairly event-less film where a woman just goes through some
fairly tough terrain but somehow the flashes to her past spliced in
with the turmoil of her present moves the story along swimmingly.If you're a fan of deeply emotional story lines this one might very
well be worth the watch.
