1
I'm sad.  The computer I was in love with ran off with the toaster!

When I first saw the trailer for this movie I thought the idea looked a
bit silly. But with the hype and hoopla, the Golden Globe Nominations,
the Oscar Nominations, well, hey, I could have been wrong.
Unfortunately, I wasn't. This (so far) is the most overrated film of
the year. First the good things. The cinematography was wonderful, and I overall
liked the look and feel of the film. No loopy, shaky, out of place
camera sequences. Just long and subtle movements, deft editing and
beautiful pictures. Well done. The other thing I really liked was the
fact that the technology, although elegantly advanced, was very well
founded. You could definitely see how we could there from here, and
that lent a great deal of credibility to the film.However, I failed to see the point of it all. About 30 minutes into the
film, I really thought I could have been wrong, and I saw some glimmer
of hope. But the utterly ludicrous plot (presented straight forward and
without apology) of a man falling in love with an operating system was
just too much. I found myself laughing at unintentional humor and
riffing on the film ala MST3K. There was nothing touching or romantic
about any of this - it was just as silly as the trailer. Same old
story. Man falls in love with computer, computer breaks up with him and
runs off with the toaster. The film comes across as pretentious and
bloated. Way too self important to really connect with me. Some scenes
were embarrassing. The "sex" scene comes to mind as well as the "double
date" with the other couple. I laughed until I stopped. On the acting side, Amy Adams was fine in her limited role, but Joaquin
Phoenix seemed to be channeling nerdy Johnny Galecki from The Big Bang
Theory. All I could think of was that "this is what Hollywood thinks
modern men are like." In what is shaping up to be an off year (IMHO) for films, this is my
least favorite of the films nominated for Best Picture that I've seen.
But that's only because August:Osage County was not nominated for Best
Picture!
