5
Beautiful yet vapid prequel.

Beautiful yet vapid prequel to "The Wizard Of Oz" that is plague by not
only by the numbers script but the questionable judgment of the people
behind the scenes of the making of the film. The CGI effects are good
and the characters created by those effects are cute but they are not
strong enough to hide the films real problems. The script is so by the
numbers that you can envision the twist and the ending five minutes
into the film. Prequels are generally predicable because it set before
the events of a prior movie but this film just did not have any
originality to it and was just lazy in its set up. The script is not
the only problem here; some of the casting is also off by a large
margin as well. James Franco was not the first actor to be considered
to play the character of Oscar Diggs but you can see a hundred better
actors who could have done the role justice before you can ever think
of Franco in the role and he does not disappoint in proving how miscast
he is. Franco is terrible, so terrible that he is distracting to the
film. He definitely does not care about his performance and it shows.
Franco just swaggers in as if he is above the material and the actors
around him while in reality, his performance is worse that the script
of this film. Making his character so unlikable that you really do not
want to watch or care about him. While Franco is in his own little
world, Mila Kunis just looks lost in her performance. She is not
believable as the wicked witch of the west and just comes across as
lightweight compare to her sisters played by Rachel Weisz and Michelle
Williams who are both much better actors than this film deserved. Weisz
in particular gives the film's best performance because she at least
makes an effort with the lazy script she has to work with and just has
fun with it. Her character is the typical Disney villain but in Weisz's
capable hands, she becomes more and that does translate on screen. You
as an audience member are swept off your feet by Weisz's enthusiasm for
her role and the movie becomes better off because of it. Williams does
the same, making her sweet tooth character a joy to watch as well and
brings a real sincerity to the role which is a god sent because of how
insincere Franco is in his.It is a beautiful movie and the CGI does not give you a headache but
other those things and the efforts of Weisz and Williams, The movie has
too many strikes against it thanks to the script and the miscasting of
Franco and Kunis.
