2
Reviews are fake, big names don't help a bad movie

How this movie even received a 7 rating is a good example of how the
studios clearly pay people to stuff the ballot boxes. Don't be fooled
by the great cast. This one is straight to VOD and everything in this
film says "cash in on the mild success of the first." What makes fun is
the "how did they do that?" question. But in this one, they tell you.
It's only possible in a movie like this where you get the help of CGI
and ask you to believe that the dumb things you see and know couldn't
happen just happen. They will definitely not make a third.The first movie in this series was something of a failure because it
decided to foolishly allow it's "heroes" to pull of feats of wonder
that were simply impossible without help from CGI. Hollywood seems to
think that pushing the limits beyond is a good thing, forgetting that
most of us with a brain get bumped right out of movie land magic once a
movie shows reminds us of how false of a premise it is. The suspension
of disbelief is gone and you're left just with disbelief.So this film has a problem that is evident early. How can we top the
preposterous nature of the first film with something even more
improbable and ridiculous? Ten minutes into the film they use CGI twice
in one scene that is so absurd that you can't help but feel insulted.
No!!! It really IS magic! THIS is what you should expect from this
movie. And if you can buy this lazy effort and pretend as if the
totally super cool amazingly impossible is somehow possible -perhaps
you'll like this film. It's the kind of magic that only superheroes can
pull off. And that only works because it's never meant to be real like
this is. I hated it. I only stayed with it because of company. Save your money.
And even if it's free, save your time. And if you're really curious,
just wait for that scene 10 minutes into the movie to decide whether
you really want to be dumb enough to waste another hour plus. The
script is bad enough and the acting lazy so that you can make that
decision easily. At least I've helped you gauge whether you want to
watch this film or plan on having an alternative plan to escape from
this movie.... like magic.
