8
Happy viewing.

Let's start off by saying that IRON MAN 3 ensures a future to this ever
so entertaining franchise. The 2nd movie did seem to be on full
throttle whilst the e-brakes were on creating some critical friction
where as the latest addition which makes this trilogy potentially even
more lucrative. However Robert Downey Jr did sign up for only 3
installments and this maybe the last time we do see Tony Stark rolling
solo. This being said the 48 year old superstar has said that he is
hoping to play more of Tony Stark in the future. It's just a matter of
time until we figure out if it will only be with the Avengers or simply
on his own!Two things about this motion picture is extremely are appealing to me. An entirely new breed of nemesis with the inclusion of the Mandarin
(not the fruit) is the first. The second one is having Shane Black take
over the director's chair from Jon Favreau.The MandarinA bit fruity isn't it? I feel The Mandarin is more villain than Vanko
and Stane thanks be to his theatrics. He is more realistic and grittier
than those before. The reference and the cut scene from the Middle East
will connect you with the first movie making this explosion of action
feel more IRON MAN. Sir Ben Kingsley is 100% the meanest nemesis in the
Marvel universe. Loki to me feels smaller in my mind standing next to
the fearful Mandarins persona. There is only so much that I can talk
about the Mandarin without spoiling the entire movie for the reader.
Once you watch it you will realize it and those who have watched it
already will simply agree.Shane BlackWhen you talk about Shane Black taking over from Jon Favreau the first
question is why? Monetary decision? Creative Decision? Bottom line the
change worked for the trilogy. Blacks worked with RDJ before and it's
even fair to say that RDJ got a push into the stardom following KISS
KISS BANG BANG. Black accepts the facts and realizes that Iron Man
certainly cannot go bigger than THE AVENGERS since it's the story of
Tony Stark and this man's only super power is hi mind. Hence IRON MAN 3
becomes entirely about Stark following the entire New York City
incident. Black focuses on the Man and not on the Suit. He exposes
Stark and brings out the sharpest gifts to the test. He tests Tony
Stark's gifted mind. Bravo!Expect a combination of continuous action a gradual yet intense climax
and a world of 21st first century CGI at its best. Do yourself a favor
and do not watch this in 3D. I will assure you that it will be more
enjoyable in 2D at this point of time in technology.Happy viewing.TITLE: IRON MAN 3 DIRECTED BY: SHANE BLACK STARRING: ROBERT DOWNEY JR,
SIR BEN KINGSLEY, GWENYTH PALTROW, JON FAVREAU, DON CHEADLE & GUY
PEARCE RATED: PG13 RATING: 08/10 RUNTIME: 130 MINUTES
