8
Wow

Before watching Elysium, I read every review about it. And it seems to
me that there are a lot of people that hated it. Most have said that
the message in the film is what kept it 'likable'. Well, after I
watched it, I thought to myself, "Why?". Trust me, don't believe any
negative reviews about this film. Yes, it's flawed, but the film itself
is really good.Matt Damon was great in this film and he was a very likable hero. But
Sharlto Copley, oh boy, he was one heck of a villain. He was so good,
every scene he was in was disturbing, in a very, very creepy way. He
owned almost every scene he was in and was the stronghold of this film.
Jodie Foster as the other antagonist, err, she did her part I guess.
Every one did a good job and they really enabled the film to lighten up
in most areas.So, this film was really good, and I was extremely pleased by it. The
film did a nice job for making the audience feel attached to the
characters, and I applaud to that. The action sequences were nice, and
it didn't over power the film, something Elysium got right and what
others sort of didn't. (Man Of Steel's epic final battle, was just TOO
LONG!) Also on the scenes where it tones down and becomes emotional,
was very well done, and it gives this movie heart. It's fast, epic,
emotional and incredible.Now, although the film is great, I only have one small gripe about
Elysium. Now, the film is around about 109 minutes. I know, that when a
film feels really good and it begins to near it's end, you don't want
it to do that just yet. That's how I felt when I saw District 9, and I
felt the same with Elysium. The film didn't feel rushed which was nice,
but an extra half an hour would've been great.Is it a Sci-Fi movie? Yes! Is it an action movie? It gets to it. Is it
an epic Sci-Fi action movie? Yes. It is epic! It's definitely a must
watch this year. I'm being generous to this film, because of the film's
message consisting of poverty, wealth and equality. Watch this film
with an open mind, and you will not be disappointed.8/10
