4
A Product, Thinly Disguised as a Film

Note: If you've seen the trailers, then this review can be considered
"spoiler-free." Otherwise, beware!How to Train Your Dragon 2 is a crime against film. Not that it's
criminally bad, but that it goes against everything film is. Film is
art, but How to Train Your Dragon 2 is mere product. It regurgitates
themes and ideas from the first film without supplying any original
concepts of its own. It does what will generate excitement among fans
of the first, and waits for the box office returns. I simply can't
understand who would support such a naked cash grab.Berk is a much happier place to live than it was at the start of the
first How to Train Your Dragon. The residents of Berk now own their own
dragons, and they participate and spectate various Dragon-oriented
games and races. But Hiccup and Co. uncover a mysterious group of
dragon- catchers, and most surprisingly (unless you've seen the
trailers): Hiccup's long-lost mother.Among many other frustrating things about How to Train Your Dragon 2 is
Hiccup's new character design. Not only is it obvious bait for teenage
girls (a large portion of the demographic for this movie), but it
doesn't make sense. Hiccup remains nerdy and goofy, but his new look
betrays that. Also, none of the other characters have changed much at
all in terms of appearance. Sure, some of the kids have a little peach
fuzz, and Stoick has some white in his beard, but that's it! No one's
appearance changes as dramatically as Hiccup's.This is further evidence at the lack of effort put into this film. The
entire movie is running on visuals (which are, admittedly, gorgeous)
and lame gags that rarely generate laughter or even smiles. Many of
said gags are among the "cute" variety, which should enchant small
children and grandparents, but leave most teens cold.The plot is often forgotten, which leads to weird pacing issues. A
standard film should have a beginning, middle, and end. How to Train
Your Dragon 2 has a very long beginning, and a very long ending. The
beginning of the film establishes the plot, subsequently forgets it,
and then introduces Hiccup's mother (a character that is only there to
create a cheap twist at the beginning). The end is just a very long and
dull series of battle sequences, filled with contradictions, cheap
solutions, and vague explanations. For a fantasy film to really work, I believe it needs strong characters
more than anything else. Unfortunately, this cast does not fit the bill
(this problems also plagued the first film). While Hiccup is likable,
his makeover diminishes his appeal. The supporting cast is either
annoying or boring. The exception being Gobber and (surprisingly)
Ruffnut, who provides some of the film's only successful comedy, thanks
to her new love interest.The voice cast itself is fine, if unspectacular. Jay Baruchel makes no
attempts to change his voice to match the new character design for
Hiccup, but the performance itself is fine. Newcomers, Cate Blanchett,
Kitt Harrington, and Djimon Hounsou provide serviceable performances.Other than the animation, the only truly great thing about How to Train
Your Dragon 2 is John Powell's score. He follows up his enormously
enjoyable work in the original with a score that nearly equals it. It
brings back the old themes, introduces some new ones, and puts into one
fiercely enjoyable package. The only real downside is that one of the
songs in the film ("For the Dancing and Dreaming") has a melody that's
almost identical to "Noble Maiden Fair" from 2012's Brave. This remains
the only blemish in the music department (excepting the Jonsi song).How to Train Your Dragon 2 is a soulless and empty motion picture. It
fails to take risks or introduce creative ideas that differ from
anything seen in the first. Its frantic attempts to expand upon the
universe result in continuity issues with the first film. How to Train
Your Dragon 2 exists only to steal money from the fans of the first
film, and perhaps create a stronger presence in the terrifying realm of
fan fiction). If you are a part of either above party, then you'll
probably enjoy this film, despite my argument. Alas, I implore you, be
aware of the beast you're feeding.
