7
love in times of war

The life and death of Irène Némirovsky and the fate of the cycle of
novels that inspired 'Suite francaise' could be the subject of a
thrilling movie, a different one. Born in 1903 in an Ukrainian Jewish
family, she took refuge to France after the First World War with her
family flying the Russian revolution, but was never granted French
citizenship. Converting to Catholicism and writing French nationalistic
(some consider these anti-Semitic) fiction did not spare her the fate
of the majority of the French Jews - deportation to the concentration
camps and death (at Auschwitz). 'Suite francaise' was planned to be a
five volumes saga about the years of war, written as the events
happened. Irene Nemirovsky wrote only two of them before being
deported, the manuscript was unread for more than half of a century
until discovered by her daughter and published as what has become a
historical novel about the years of the war.I did not read (yet) the books, but from the synopsis on Wikipedia I
understand that the script departs quite afar from the original. The
(spectacular) introduction scenes may not be in the book but they are
useful to understand the context and the historical moment. Similarly,
the final seems to be a Hollywood patch, not necessarily adding
anything. The core of the film resides in the building love story
between the young French woman whose husband is a prisoner of war and
the German officer who is allocated to live in their house. It's a
complex relationship, and the merit of the script is that it avoids the
black-white, bad-good nuances and moral judgments leaving room for the
feelings and emotions. There is also a strong social content, both in
the main story (are love or even co-existence allowed between occupier
and occupied? here is a question valid also in other times and places)
and in the secondary story of the mayor-viscount who pays with his life
the price of collaboration. Ambiguity is however the tone that works
here best.One of the hard obstacles for viewers of 'Suite francaise' is the fact
that the film is American and spoken in English. I do not know whom I
should ask, but I would certainly loved to see a French version. Maybe
it's still easier for the non-French to deal with the theme of 'la
collaboration'? Beautiful and fragile Michelle Williams and tormented
and introspective Matthias Schoenaerts do both good acting jobs in the
main roles, but best of all is Kristin Scott Thomas as the
mother-in-law who may make you change your mind about the moral fabric
of the French high classes. Saul Dibb is only at his third long feature
film and directs with kind of an academic touch not exactly to my
taste, but there are many good reasons to go and see this film.
