1
Pothole plot!

I was really looking forward to this film. I love post apocalyptic
stories, I didn't think it would be amazing, but I certainly thought it
would be better than this. I have never made a review on here before, I
have only rated films/TV shows. But I felt compelled to after watching
this and noting the major, numerous gaping holes in this film. WARNING: SPOILER ALERT!!1) If this Wilford guy knew this C4 gas or whatever was going to turn
the world into an ice- age why didn't he do more than just build this
train? He talks about this engine being eternal - so why didn't he use
it to power an underground city, with actual space to move?2) Who maintains the train and the tracks? In 18 years no repairs have
needed to be made? None whatsoever? In this post apocalyptic ice age
there is no damage? I don't think so!3) Why was there no explanation as to how this engine actually works?
Literally, no explanation whatsoever. 4) The poor need to be routinely killed by allowing them to uprise so
they can be slaughtered? What kind of idea is that. Why not suggest a
child policy?5) Why was a class system needed at all on this train. No explanation
as to why they couldn't be put to work to be productive members of this
ridiculous train society!6) Who were the bad guys who dressed up with night vision goggles? Why
were they so ready to kill? Which class were they a part of? Do they
have a back story?7) How did the fire reach from the back of the train to the carriage
where they were fighting so quickly?8) Why was Tilda swinton who played mason stabbed with a knife in the
leg but could walk fine in the next scenes? And why did she randomly
take her teeth out? And what were he weird little speeches about?9) There are apparently first class, economy and the freeloader
sections if the train? But where were the economy passengers? 10) Where were the animals that produced the meat for the refrigerated
meat section and why couldn't you see their breath on there - surely it
was cold. 11) Where were the chickens that produced the eggs? Where were the
cockroaches coming from that made the protein bars? Oh and where did
the rice come from that went with the sushi? 12) They have a dentist, a tailor, a hairdressers, jacuzzi, sauna, bar,
a nightclub and a crack den but no nice bedrooms for first class? Where
do they sleep? Note there are the bedrooms next to where the protein
bars are made but there is no explanation as to who stays there and
they were a bit grey and small to be first class accommodation. 13) Where did the kids go that were being taught in the school. Curtis
didn't pass any of them again while going through the train. 14) Why did he waste all his bullets trying to shoot the bad guy
through windows of the train? How dumb was that?!15) Why did that bad guy live through so much? We literally saw him
die. We saw it happen. He was stabbed in the side and died. But all of
a sudden he stands up and walks and pulls out the knife no problem and
has enough energy to have a full on fight for no apparent reason. 16) Who was the woman in the yellow coat? What was the point of her?17) Why were all the people from the nightclub suddenly wielding axes
and chains? Because the two Koreans stole their drugs? Really? Why is
everyone so excited to kill on this train that is the last hope for
humankind? Why couldn't the girl kill anyone whilst shooting about 8
times into that crowd?18) Why did Wilford want to give up his job as engine commander. He
says it's was because he was old but he only looked 50/60. What was so
demanding about sitting there that meant he couldn't do it anymore?19) Why did that kid ignore Curtis like he was brainwashed and walk
into that weird engine thing that popped out? And what was he doing in
the engine thing? And why was he in a cupboard? And why did he come out
at that moment? 20) Why did Curtis chop off his arm to save a kid when they were about
to blow up the train anyway? Why not use one of the weapons that were
around a lot of the film to put in between the gears to take him out?
Or not bother at all. 21) Why would they blow up the train? For what reason? What possible
good could come from that? Curtis had the power in his hands and he
could have made this little bizarre train world a better place, but
nope - let's derail the train and kill everyone with an explosion!22) What the hell are that teenage girl and little boy supposed to do
now? She just killed everyone on the train and if the cold doesn't kill
her and that boy then the polar bear will probably kill them! And again
no breath! It's meant to be freezing cold and they couldn't stretch
themselves to make the actors' breath visible! Poor!On the plus side the garden and aquarium sections looked nice...DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM!
